                                        ABSTRACT
Feeding stock used to form a tapered structure into a curving device such that each point on
the stock undergoes rotational motion about a peak location of the tapered structure; and the
stock meets a predecessor portion of stock along one or more adjacent edges.

                            1/17
100
          102          104                  106        108
              Feed System        Curving Device Welder
    Souce
                                 Control System
                                   110
                          FIG. 1
                          FIG. 2

                 TAPERED STRUCTURE CONSTRUCTION
                 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
        [0001] This application has been divided out of Australian patent
application <removed-apn> (AU <removed-apn>). AU <removed-apn> was divided out of Australian
patent application 20123 12351 (AU 2012312351). In the description in this specification,
reference may be made to subject matter which is not within the scope of the presently
appended claims. That subject matter should be readily identifiable by a person skilled in the
art and may assist in putting into practice the invention as defined in the presently appended
claims.
        [0002] AU 2012312351 is the national phase entry in Australia of PCT international
application PCT/US2012/056414 (published as WO 2013/043920 A2). The entirety of WO
2013/043920 A2 is hereby incorporated by reference.
        [0003] This application claims priority to provisional application 61/537,013, filed
Sep. 20 2011, the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
        [0004] This document relates to constructing tapered structures.
                                        BACKGROUND
        [00051 This document relates to constructing tapered structures. Various techniques
and devices exist that can produce tapered structures, such as cones or frusto-conical
structures. One general approach to constructing tapered structures involves bending or
                                                 1

otherwise deforming metal stock in desired ways, then either joining the stock either to itself
at certain points, or joining the stock to other structures at certain points. Some construction
techniques begin with planar metallic stock, and introduce in-plane deformations (i.e.,
compression) to shape the stock appropriately for building the structure. These in-plane
deformations often require a relatively large amount of energy, and thus increase the cost of
producing structures using those techniques.
                                            SUMMARY
         [0006] The present invention provides an apparatus for producing a frusto-conical
structure, the apparatus comprising: a feed system operable to move a sheet of material in a
first direction; a curving device operable to: receive the sheet of material from the feed
system, move the sheet of material in a second direction different from the first direction, and
curve the sheet of material to form the frusto-conical structure; and a control system in
communication with the feed system and the curving device, the control system configured to
control the feed system and the curving device such that a portion of the sheet of material that
has not yet been curved by the curving device is maintained at a substantially constant
distance from a virtual peak of the frusto-conical structure as the sheet of material is moved
into the curving device, wherein the virtual peak is located at a point where a taper of the
frusto-conical structure would decrease to zero if the frusto-conical structure were not
truncated.
         [0007] The present invention further provides an apparatus for producing a frusto
conical structure, the apparatus comprising: a feed system comprising a roller operable to
drive a metal sheet in a first direction, the feed system adjustable in two degrees of freedom to
                                                  2

position the metal sheet; a curving device comprising a triple roll, the triple roll including a
plurality of steerable rollers arranged in a bank, the plurality of steerable rollers operable to:
receive the metal sheet from the feed system, move the metal sheet in a second direction
different from the first direction, and curve the metal sheet to form the frusto-conical
structure; a welder operable to join the metal sheet to itself or to other metal sheets; and a
control system in communication with the feed system, the curving device, and the welder,
the control system configured to: control the feed system and the curving device such that, as
the metal sheet is driven into the curving device, a first portion of the metal sheet that has not
yet been curved by the curving device is maintained at a substantially constant distance from a
virtual peak of the frusto-conical structure, the virtual peak being located at a point where a
taper of the frusto-conical structure would decrease to zero if the frusto-conical structure were
not truncated, and control the welder to join a second portion of the metal sheet that has been
curved by the curving device with another portion of the frusto-conical structure that has been
curved by the curving device.
         [0008] The present invention still further provides an apparatus for producing a frusto
conical structure, the apparatus comprising: a feed system operable to move a sheet of
material in a first direction; a curving device operable to: receive the sheet of material from
the feed system, move the sheet of material in a second direction different from the first
direction, and curve the sheet of material to form the frusto-conical structure; and a control
system in communication with the feed system and the curving device, the control system
configured to control the feed system and the curving device in a manner such that a portion
of the sheet of material that has not yet been curved by the curving device is rotated about a
virtual peak at a substantially constant radial distance from the virtual peak as the sheet of
                                                 3

material is moved into the curving device, wherein the virtual peak is located at a point where
a taper of the frusto-conical structure would decrease to zero if the frusto-conical structure
were not truncated.
         [0009] In general, in one aspect, feeding stock used to form a tapered structure into a
curving device such that: each point on the stock undergoes rotational motion about a peak
location of the tapered structure; and the stock meets a predecessor portion of stock along one
or more adjacent edges.
         [0010] Implementations may have one or more of the following features. The peak
location moves along a fixed axis. The stock is trapezoidal. The curving device includes a
triple roll. Feeding the stock into the curving device does not impart in-plane deformation to
the stock. Also joining the stock to the predecessor portion along the one or more adjacent
edges. Joining the stock includes completing a technique selected from the group consisting
of: welding, applying an adhesive, and applying a mechanical fastener. Feeding the stock into
the curving device includes varying an in-feed angle of the stock with respect to a feed
direction such that each point on the stock translates tangentially to a corresponding
imaginary circle of constant radius centered at the peak location. Varying the in-feed angle
includes imparting at least one of a rotational motion and a translational motion to the stock
relative to the feed direction.
         [00111 In general, in another aspect, a system includes: a triple roll configured to
impart a controllable degree of curvature to stock; a feed system capable of: imparting a first
translational motion component to the stock at a first point on the stock; imparting a second
translational motion component to the stock at a second point on the stock; and rotating the
stock about a point on the feed system.
                                                 4

         [0012] Implementations may have one or more of the following systems. The system
also includes a control system configured to cause: the feed system to feed stock to the triple
roll such that the stock undergoes rotational motion about a peak of a frusto-conical structure;
and the triple roll to impart a degree of curvature to the stock that varies with time. The feed
system also includes: a roller operable to feed the stock to the triple roll along the feed
direction, and a positioner operable to translate the stock in the direction different from the
feed direction. The feed system includes a pair of differentially driven rollers collectively
operable to rotate the stock about the movable pivot and to translate the stock in the feed
direction. The triple roll includes a pair of differentially driven rollers collectively operable to
rotate the stock about the movable pivot and to translate the stock in the feed direction. The
feed system includes a pair of positioners that are collectively operable to translate the stock
to the triple roll along the feed direction, rotate the stock about the movable pivot, and
translate the stock in the direction different from the feed direction. The feed system includes
a pair of pickers that are collectively operable to translate the stock to the triple roll along the
feed direction, rotate the stock about the movable pivot, and translate the stock in the direction
different from the feed direction. A location of the peak moves relative to the triple roll while
stock is fed through the triple roll.
         [0013] In general, in another aspect, a system includes a triple roll configured to
impart a controllable degree of curvature to stock; means for feeding stock through the triple
roll via rotational motion about a peak of a frusto-conical structure;
         [0014] Implementations may have one or more of the following features. A location
of the peak moves relative to the triple roll while stock is fed through the triple roll.
                                                   5

         [0015] Other implementations of any of the foregoing aspects can be expressed in
various forms, including methods, systems, apparatuses, devices, computer program products,
products by processes, or other forms. Other advantages will be apparent from the following
figures and description.
                               DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
         [00161 Embodiments of the invention described herein may be understood by
reference to the following figures, which are provided by way of example and not of
limitation:
         [0017] FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a construction system.
         [0018] FIG. 2 is a schematic depiction of a triple roll.
         [0019] FIGS. 3-5 are schematic illustrations of deformed stock.
         [0020] FIGS. 6A-C are schematic illustrations of stock undergoing rotational motion
about a peak.
         [00211 FIG. 6D is a kinematic diagram illustrating rotational motion of stock about a
point.
         [0022] FIG. 7A is a perspective view of a construction system.
         [0023] FIG. 7B is an overhead view of a construction system.
         [0024] FIG. 8A is a perspective view of a construction system
         [0025] FIG. 8B is an overhead view of a construction system.
         [0026] FIG. 9A is a perspective view of a construction system
         [0027] FIG. 9B is an overhead view of a construction system.
         [0028] FIG. 1OA is a perspective view of a construction system
                                                6

        [0029] FIG. 1OB is an overhead view of a construction system.
        [0030] FIG. 11 A is a perspective view of a construction system
        [0031] FIG. 11 B is an overhead view of a construction system.
        [0032] FIG. 12 is a schematic depiction of a bank of rollers.
        [0033] FIG. 13 is a graph.
        [0034] FIG. 14 is a flowchart.
        [0035] Like references numbers refer to like structures.
                                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
        [0036] It is often desirable to form a tapered structure, such as a conical or frusto
conical structure, from a substantially planar metallic stock without introducing in-plane
deformation to the stock. For example, U.S. Pat. App. No. 12/693,369, entitled "TAPERED
SPIRAL WELDED STRUCTURE," discusses some applications of such structures. The
entirety of U.S. Pat. App. No. 12/693,369 is incorporated by reference to the present
document. Among other things, the techniques described below can be used to construct
structures described in U.S. Pat. App. No. 12/693,369.
        [0037] FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a construction system. The system 100 includes a
metal source 102, feed system 104, a curving device 106, a welder 108, and a control system
110. As described more fully below, the system 100 is operable to construct tapered
structures.
        [0038] The metal source 102 includes the raw metal from which a tapered structure is
formed. In some implementations, the metal source 102 can include a collection of planar
metal sheets, dimensioned in any of the ways described in U.S. Pat. App. No. 12/693,369.
                                                 7

The sheets can be constructed and arranged to facilitate easily picking a desired sheet in the
manufacturing process. For example, the sheets can be stored in a magazine or other suitable
dispenser.
        [0039] The feed system 104 is operable to transport metal from the metal source 102
to (and in some implementations, through) the curving device 106. The feed system 104 can
include any such appropriate equipment for picking a desired sheet according to traditional
techniques. Such equipment can include, for example, robotic arms, pistons, servos, screws,
actuators, rollers, drivers, electromagnets, etc., or combinations of any of the foregoing.
        [0040] In an alternative embodiment, the metal source 102 includes a roll of metal
stock, and the system 100 includes a cutting tool 103. In operation, the cutting tool 103 cuts
sections from the metal stock as described in U.S. Pat. Apple. No. 12/693,369 to form a
collection of sheets that can be fed into the curving device 106 by the feed system 104.
        [0041] The curving device 106 is operable to curve the metal fed into it, without
imparting any in-plane deformation to the metal. Moreover, the curving device 106 can
impart a controllable degree of curvature to the metal. In some implementations, the curving
device 106 includes a triple roll. Referring to FIG. 2, a triple roll includes three parallel
cylindrical rollers operable to impart a constant curvature to metal fed through the rollers in
the direction of the dashed arrow. The degree of curvature can be controlled by, e.g.,
dynamically adjusting the radius of one or more rolls, dynamically adjusting the relative
positions of the rolls, etc.
        [0042] Referring back to FIG. 1, alternatively or additionally, the curving device 106
may include one or more cone-shaped rolls instead of a cylindrical roll in the triple roll
configuration. A cone-shaped roll inherently imparts a varying curvature - i.e., higher
                                                   8

curvature towards the apex of the cone, lower curvature towards the base. As a further
alternative, one may use a possibly irregularly-shaped roll to impart a corresponding curvature
to in-fed stock.
         [0043] Additionally or alternatively to the above, a solid structure may be replaced by
a collection of smaller structures (e.g., wheels, bearings, smaller rollers, or the like) that
collectively approximate the exterior of the corresponding solid structure. For example, a
cylinder can be replaced by a collection of wheels of equal radii, a cone could be replaced by
a collection of wheels of decreasing radii, etc.
         [0044] When rectangular piece of stock is fed into a triple roll "head on," (that is, with
the incoming edge of the rectangular stock parallel with the axes of the triple roll's cylinders),
then it will be deformed into circular arc, as illustrated in FIG. 2. However, when a
rectangular piece of stock is fed in at an angle, the stock will be deformed into a "corkscrew"
shape, potentially with gaps between each turn, as illustrated in FIG. 3. The techniques
described below involve varying the in-feed angle (and other parameters described below)
such that the edges of the stock lie adjacent to each other, allowing them to be joined (e.g.,
welded) to form the desired structure, as shown in FIG. 4.
         [0045] One way to accomplish this is as follows. As a preliminary matter, any tapered
structure includes either an actual peak or a virtual peak. An actual peak is a point at which
the taper eventually decreases to zero. For example, a cone has an actual peak at its apex.
For a truncated structure, such a frusto-conical structure, a "virtual peak" is the point at which
the taper would eventually decrease to zero if the structure were not truncated. In this
document, the word "peak" includes both actual peaks and virtual peaks.
                                                  9

         [0046] One way to vary the in-feed angle described above is to control the approach
of the metal stock so that the stock is purely rotating (i.e., not translating) with respect to the
peak of the structure as the stock is fed into the curving device 106. This condition is
equivalent to requiring that each point on the in-coming sheet of stock be at a constant
distance from the peak of the structure as the stock is deformed by the curving device 106.
Note, however, that the peak of the structure itself might be moving relative to other parts of
the system 100, as described more fully below. The "purely rotational" condition described
above concerns only the relative motion of the in-fed stock with respect to the peak's location.
That is, both the stock and the peak may also be translating or undergoing more complicated
motion with respect to other components of the system 100. If this condition is met, then
even irregularly shaped metallic stock can be joined into a tapered structure, as shown in FIG.
5.
         [0047] In some implementations, the feed system includes one or more positioners,
carriages, articulating arms, or the like, that feed each sheet of stock to the curving device and
are collectively controllable by the control system 110 to ensure this in-feed condition is met.
         [0048] In addition to controlling the in-feed angle, the degree of imparted curvature
from the curving device is also controlled. To form a conical or frusto-conical structure, for
example, the curvature with which a given point on the in-coming stock is deformed varies
linearly with the height along the resultant cone's axis at which the given point will lie. Other
tapered structures require other degrees of imparted curvature.
         [0049] The welder 108 is operable to join sheets of in-fed stock to other sheets of in
fed stock (or to itself, or to other structures). In some implementations, the welder 108
includes one or more weld heads whose position and operation is controllable.
                                                   10

         [0050] The control system 110 is operable to control and coordinate the various tasks
described above, including but not limited to operating the feed system 104, operating the
curving device 106, and operating the welder 108. The control system 110 includes computer
hardware, software, circuitry, or the like that collectively generate and deliver control signals
to the components described above to accomplish the desired tasks.
         [0051] Thus, consistent with the above, a method for constructing a tapered structure
includes: identifying stock (e.g., a sheet of stock); transporting the stock to a curving device;
identifying the peak location of the tapered structure (which may change as a function of
time); feeding the stock into the curving device such that the stock undergoes purely
rotational motion relative to the peak location; and welding the stock along edges where the
stock meets prior sheets of stock, thereby forming the tapered structure.
         [0052] In the foregoing, various tasks have been described that involve relative
motion of various components. However, it is recognized that varying design constraints may
call for certain components to remain fixed (relative to the ground) or to undergo only
minimal motion. For example, the system 100 can be designed such that any one of the
following components remains fixed relative to the ground: the metal source 102, any desired
component of the feed system 104, any desired component of the curving device 106, any
desired component of the welder 108, the peak of the tapered structure under construction,
etc. Similarly, the system 100 can be designed such that none of the above components
remain fixed relative to the ground (or, except as noted above, relative to each other). In
some implementations, the heaviest or hardest to move component remains fixed relative to
the ground. In some implementations, the relative motion of the components is chosen to best
mitigate the risk of injury to those near the system 100. In some implementations, the relative
                                                 11

motion of the components is chosen to maximize the expected life of the system 100 as a
whole or the expected life of one or more components.
          [0053] As discussed above, it is desirable to arrange for entire sheet of stock being fed
into system 100 to undergo purely rotational motion during the in-feed process - i.e., the
period from just before the first point of the stock is fed into the curving device, up until just
after the last point of the stock leaves the curving device. Achieving this condition during the
in-feed process results in the edges of stock ultimately lying adjacent to corresponding edges
of predecessor stock that has previously been fed through the curving device. This condition
is illustrated further in FIGS. 6A-C, in the context of constructing a frusto-conical structure.
The partially formed frusto-conical structure 600 has a (virtual) peak at point P, and sides
tangent to the dashed lines. To more clearly illustrate the "purely rotational motion"
condition, the construction system 100 is not shown.
          [0054] In FIGS. 6A and B, a sheet of stock 602 is shown, and an arbitrary point
thereon labeled "A." The distance between the point A and the virtual peak P is labeled by
the solid line R. As the sheet 602 is fed into the system, as shown in FIG. 6C, the distance R
between the point A and the peak P remains constant, even as sheet 602 is deformed by the
curving device of the system 100. Of course, the distance from the sheet 602 to the peak P
will vary amongst points of the sheet 602. However, if the sheet 602 undergoes purely
rotational motion with respect to the point P, then for any fixed point on the sheet 602, the
distance from that point to the point P remains constant, even as the sheet 602 is deformed.
          [0055] FIG. 6D is a kinematic diagram illustrating rotational motion of stock about a
point P. In FIG. 6D, an arbitrary point A is identified on the stock, and that point A maintains
a constant distance R from P as the stock rotates about point P. Regardless of an equipment
                                                 12

configuration, implementing the rotational motion can initially be thought of as requiring
certain ingredients: first, the ability to impart tangential translation along the circle of radius
R centered at P; and second, the ability to impart rotation in the appropriate direction about
the geometric center of the stock.
         [0056]   Moreover, since the tangential direction changes as the stock moves,
implementing this aspect of the rotational motion is possible if one can implement translation
in two fixed directions (e.g., a feed direction and another direction), so long as the directions
are different. If this is possible, then an arbitrary translation can be achieved by an
appropriate linear combination of the fixed directions.
         [0057] The foregoing description of the purely rotational condition has been set forth
in the context of a stationary peak P. However, in some implementations, the point P may
move during the construction process. For example, if the curving device 106 is fixed relative
to the ground, then each new addition of stock may push the point P further away from the
curving device.    When the point P is moving in a certain direction at a certain time, the stock
should also move in the same direction at the same time, in addition to having a pure
rotational component, in order to satisfy the "pure rotation" condition.
         [0058] Although the phrase "purely rotational" motion has been used above, slight
deviations from pure rotation (i.e., slight translations of the stock or peak relative to each
other) may be permissible. If the stock undergoes any translational motion with respect to the
peak during the in-feed process, the resultant structure may deviate from an ideal frusto
conical geometry. In particular, there may be gaps where the stock fails to meet
corresponding edges of predecessor portions of stock, the stock may overlap itself, or both.
                                                   13

         [0059] In some implementations, a certain degree of deviation from an ideal frusto
conical structure may be tolerable. For example, if edges of stock are to be joined by
welding, caulking, epoxy, or the like, then a slight gap to accommodate the weld or adhesive
may be desirable. Similarly, if the edges of stock are to be joined by rivets, bolts, screws, or
other mechanical fasteners, adhesives, or the like, then a slight degree of overlap may be
desirable.
         [0060] As used in this document, "substantially rotational" motion means purely
rotational motion as described above, except allowing for slight deviations that may be useful
later in the manufacturing process. The degree of these permissible deviations, in general,
will vary with the dimensions of the desired frusto-conical structure and the manufacturing
steps that the deviations accommodate. Also as used in this document, "rotational motion"
should be understood to mean either substantially rotational motion or purely rotational
motion. Conversely, if the motion of stock bears a rotational component about the peak P as
well as a significant translational component beyond what is necessary or desirable for later
manufacturing steps, such motion is not "rotational about the peak" within the meaning of this
document.
         [0061] FIG. 7A is a perspective view of an implementation of a construction system,
and FIG. 7B is a corresponding top view of the implementation.
         [00621 In some embodiments, the curving device includes a triple roll 700. The triple
roll includes a top portion 701 that can be articulated vertically - either manually, or under the
direction of the control system 110 (FIG. 1). Articulating the top portion can be useful to
engage the stock 102, or to control the amount of curvature imparted to stock 102 as it passes
through the triple roll 700. In general, a different portion can be articulated; any controllable
                                                  14

change in the relative position of the rolls can be used impart corresponding amounts of
curvature to the stock 102.
         [0063] In some implementations, the triple roll 700 includes a plurality of individual
rollers 712 arranged in banks. In various implementations, these rollers 712 can be
individually driven, driven collectively, or not driven at all. The banks need not be parallel.
         [0064] In some embodiments, the feed system 104 (FIG. 1) includes the drive system
704. This drive system includes a plurality of rollers 706a, 706b, 706c, 706d, a positioner
708, and wheels 710. The rollers 706a-d can be individually driven by the control system 110
(FIG. 1). In particular, the rollers 706a-d can be differentially driven (e.g., with rollers 706a,
706c being driven at a different rate than rollers 706b, 706d) so as to cause the stock to rotate
102 as it passes through the rollers 706a-d. Controlling the rollers' rotational speed (in
combination with other parameters described herein) can help implement rotational motion of
the stock 102 about the peak of the frusto-conical structure 702.
         [0065] The drive system 704 is coupled to the triple roll 700 (or other convenient
object) via a positioner 708. The positioner 708 is operable to move the drive system 704
(and with it, the stock 102) relative to the triple roll 700, under the direction of the control
system 110 (FIG. 1). The positioner 708 can include a hydraulic piston, pneumatic piston,
servo, screw, actuator, rack and pinion, cable and pulley system, cam, electromagnetic drive,
or other device capable of imparting the desired motion.
         [0066] In some implementations the drive system 704 is rotatably secured about a
pivot point 711, such that activating the positioner 708 causes rotation about the pivot point.
In some implementations, the drive system 704 includes wheels 710 to allow the system 704
to move more easily.
                                                  15

         [0067] Controlling the motion of the drive system 704 via the positioner 708 (in
combination with other parameters described herein) can help implement rotational motion of
the stock 102 about the peak of the frusto-conical structure 702 during the construction
process.
         [0068] FIG. 8A is a perspective view of another embodiment of the construction
system 100, and FIG. 8B is a corresponding overhead view of the embodiment. This
embodiment includes a triple roll 800 having a top portion 801 as described above and a drive
system 804.
         [0069] The drive system 804 includes two positioners 806, 808 that are rotatably
coupled to the ground (or other convenient object) at joints 807a, 809a, and rotatably coupled
to a table 810 at joints 807b, 809b. As above, the positioner can include a piston, servo,
screw, actuator, cam, electromagnetic drive, or other device capable of imparting desired
motion. The tension bar 812 is pivotably mounted to the table 810 at joint 813 and pivotably
mounted to the ground (or other convenient object) at joint 811. The tension bar 812 biases
the table 810 against the positioners 806, 808 and drive system 804.
         [0070] In some implementations, the table 810 includes features to guide or otherwise
help the stock 102 move on the way to the triple roll. For example, the table 810 may include
one or more rollers 814, air bearings, electromagnetic systems, low-friction coatings or
treatments, wheels, ball transfers, etc.
         [0071] Each positioner 806, 808 is controlled by the control system 110, which results
in motion of the table 810 (and the stock 102). A variety of motions are possible. For
example, activating one positioner (and not the other) results in rotation of the table 810 about
the joint where the unactivated positioner meets the table. Activating both positioners 806,
                                               16

808 to move in parallel directions at the same rate translates the table 810 parallel to the
direction of motion. Activating both positioners at different rates or in different directions
produces a mixed translational/rotational motion. Controlling this motion (in combination
with other parameters described herein) can help implement rotational motion of the stock
102 about the peak of the frusto-conical structure 802.
        [0072] FIG. 9A shows a perspective view, and FIG. 9B a corresponding overhead
view, of another implementation of a construction system. In some implementations, the triple
roll 900 includes a plurality of individual rollers 1200 arranged in banks, as described above.
The banks need not be parallel. As described below, the rollers 1200 are individually
steerable.
        [0073] In some implementations, the feed system 104 (FIG. 1) includes the drive
system 904. This drive system 904 includes a roller 918, a positioner 906, and a wheel 916.
The positioner 906 is rotatably mounted to the drive system 904 at a joint 908, and rotatably
mounted to the ground (or other convenient object) at joint 910. The roller 918 is activated by
the control system 110 (FIG. 1) so as to drive (i.e., translate) the stock towards the triple roll
900.
        [0074] The positioner 906 is operable to rotate the drive system 904 (and with it, the
stock 102) relative to the triple roll 900, under the direction of the control system 110 (FIG.
1). The positioner 906 can include a hydraulic piston, pneumatic piston, servo, screw,
actuator, rack and pinion, electromagnetic motor, cable and pulley system, or other device
cam, electromagnetic drive, capable of imparting the desired motion.
        [0075] Note, however, that the center of this rotation is joint 914, which in general is
not the location of the peak of the frusto-conical structure.
                                                 17

         [0076] To help the stock rotate about the peak of the frusto-conical structure, the
individual rolls 1200 of the triple roll can be controlled in various ways. In some
implementations, the individual rolls 1200 can be steered by the control system. That is,
direction motion imparted to the stock by the rolls 1200, represented by arrow X in FIG. 9B,
is controllable, by rotating the individual rolls 1200 with respect to the triple roll chasis. In
particular, the direction of arrow X can be made to be different from the feed direction - that
is, the direction motion imparted by the roller 918 represented by the arrow Y in FIG. 9B.
         [0077] In some implementations, the rolls 1200 are fixedly mounted to impart a
direction of motion other than the feed direction, but the rotational speed of the rolls 1200 is
controllable. In some implementations, controlling the relative speeds of the rolls 918 and
1200 can collectively impart rotational motion of the stock about the peak of the frusto
conical structure.
         [0078] FIG. 1OA is a perspective view of another implementation of the construction
system 100, and FIG. 1OB is a corresponding overhead view of the implementation. This
implementation includes a triple roll 1000 having a top portion 1001 as described above and a
drive system 1004.
         [0079] The drive system 1004 includes two positioners 1006, 1010 that are coupled,
respectively, to the ground (or other convenient object) atjoints 1008, 1012, and are each
coupled to the drive system 1004 at joint 1014. As above, the positioners can include a
piston, servo, screw, actuator, cam, electromagnetic drive, or other device capable of
imparting desired motion.
         [0080] The drive system 1004 also includes a pair of rolls 1020a, 1020b that are
controllable by control system 110. These rolls are operable to drive (i.e., translate) the stock
                                                 18

 102 towards the triple roll 1000. Additionally, each positioner 1006, 1010 is controlled by the
control system 110, which results in motion of the rolls 1020a, 1020b (and in some
implementations, the stock 102). A variety of motions are possible, from pure translation, to
pure rotation, to mixed translational/rotational motion. Controlling this motion (in
combination with other parameters described herein) can help implement rotational motion of
the stock 102 about the peak of the frusto-conical structure 802.
         [0081] FIG. 11 A is a perspective view of another implementation of a construction
system, and FIG. 11 B is the corresponding overhead view of the implementation.
         [0082] Here, the construction system includes a triple roll 1100 with a controllable top
portion as described above that deforms stock 102 into a frusto-conical structure 1102. The
feed system 104 includes a drive system 1104. The drive system includes an assembly 1106
having two or more pickers 1108. Each picker 1108 is slidably mounted on a rail 1110, and
each rail 1110 is slidably mounted on two tracks 11 12a and 11 12b. Under the control of the
control system 110, the pickers may be positioned at any desired location within the
accessible area defined by the rail 1110 and the tracks 11 12a,b.
         [0083] Each picker 1108 is operable to engage, grasp, or otherwise adhere to the stock
102. In some implementations, a picker 1108 can include controllable electromagnets,
suction devices, clamps, flanges, adhesives, or the like. In some implementations, robotic
arms may be employed in place of the assembly 1106 to move the pickers 1108 to desired
locations.
         [0084] Complicated motions (including rotations and/or translations) can be imparted
to the stock by engaging, grasping, or otherwise adhering to the stock at two or more points.
                                                19

In particular, using the pickers 1108 in this fashion can help implement rotational motion of
the stock 102 about the peak of the frusto-conical structure.
         [0085] FIG. 12 shows a schematic view of a single bank of rolls in a triple roll,
consistent with another implementation of the construction system. In FIG. 12, the arrows on
each individual roll 1200 represents a component of motion imparted to the stock by the roll
1200 as the stock passes over the roll. Each arrow is a function of the roll's orientation and
rate at which the roll is driven. Thus, for example, roll 1200a imparts relatively little
horizontal motion to the stock at the location of roll 1200a, while 1200g imparts a relatively
large amount of horizontal motion at the location of 1200g.
         [0086] With exactly two differentially driven rolls 1200, a rotational component (or a
mixed rotational/translational component) can be imparted to the stock. With more than two
rolls 1200, it is desirable to arrange for each roll to consistently impart the same bulk motion
to the stock. For example, for implementing a rotational motion in the direction of arrow X
about a peak location P (which itself is moving vertically), each roll 1200 is configured to
impart vertical motion identical to P's vertical motion, and a degree horizontal motion that
linearly increases (as shown by the dashed line) with the roller's distance from P.
         [0087] The foregoing exemplary implementations used various structures
positioners, single rollers, pairs or systems of differentially driven rollers, pickers, etc. - to
move the stock or contribute to moving the stock such that the net result is the stock moving
rotationally with respect to the peak as it moves through the curving device. These exemplary
implementations illustrate only a few of the virtually infinite number of possibilities for
accomplishing this result. In particular, the foregoing implementations do not exhaustively
illustrate the full scope of the invention.
                                                 20

        [0088] Moreover, even for a specific configuration of equipment, in general there may
be more than one way to control the various components so the net effect is to rotationally
move the stock about the peak on the stock's way to the curving device. The graph shown in
FIG. 13 illustrates a particular control scenario in the context of implementations consistent
with FIG. 7. When the rotation speeds of an outer drive wheel pair (e.g., rollers 706a, 706c)
and an inner drive wheel pair (e.g., rollers 706b, 706d) vary as shown in FIG. 13, rotational
motion about the peak location is achieved.
        [0089] Other control techniques are readily identifiable.
        [0090] FIG. 14 is a flowchart showing a method for constructing a tapered structure in
accordance with each of the foregoing implementations. In step 1402, stock is identified. As
discussed above, in some implementations the stock can include a roll of metal or other
material. In some implementations the stock comprises pre-cut individual sheets, as described
in U.S. Pat. App. 12/693,3 69.
        [0091] In step 1404 the stock is transported to the curving device. This may occur
using any known means. In particular, there is no constraint on the stock's motion in this
step, and it need not rotate with respect to any other point.
        [0092] In step 1406, the stock is fed into the curving device. In this step, the stock
maintains rotational motion with respect to the peak of the frusto-conical structure during the
in-feed process. Step 1406 results in deforming the stock to impart a certain degree of
curvature. However, in some implementations, no in-plane deformation of the stock occurs.
        [0093] In step 1408, edges of the stock are joined together where they meet, so as to
form the tapered structure. In some implementations, a separate joining step may occur
before step 1406. For example, for trapezoidal shaped sheets of stock having a pair of long
                                                 21

sides and a pair of short sides, the short sides may be joined first (e.g., with other sheets of
stock), then the stock deformed, and then the long sides joined.
        [0094] Joining the stock can be accomplished by any known means, including
welding, adhesives, epoxy, cement, mortar, rivets, bolts, staples, tape, brazing, soldering, or
complementary geometric features (e.g., pins that mate with holes, teeth that mate with each
other, snaps, etc.
        [0095] The above systems, devices, methods, processes, and the like may be realized
in hardware, software, or any combination of these suitable for the control, data acquisition,
and data processing described herein. This includes realization in one or more
microprocessors, microcontrollers, embedded microcontrollers, programmable digital signal
processors or other programmable devices or processing circuitry, along with internal and/or
external memory. This may also, or instead, include one or more application specific
integrated circuits, programmable gate arrays, programmable array logic components, or any
other device or devices that may be configured to process electronic signals. It will further be
appreciated that a realization of the processes or devices described above may include
computer-executable code created using a structured programming language such as C, an
object oriented programming language such as C++, or any other high-level or low-level
programming language (including assembly languages, hardware description languages, and
database programming languages and technologies) that may be stored, compiled or
interpreted to run on one of the above devices, as well as heterogeneous combinations of
processors, processor architectures, or combinations of different hardware and software. At
the same time, processing may be distributed across devices such as the various systems
described above, or all of the functionality may be integrated into a dedicated, standalone
                                                 221

device. All such permutations and combinations are intended to fall within the scope of the
present disclosure.
        [0096] In some embodiments disclosed herein are computer program products
comprising computer-executable code or computer-usable code that, when executing on one
or more computing devices (such as the devices/systems described above), performs any
and/or all of the steps described above. The code may be stored in a non-transitory fashion in
a computer memory, which may be a memory from which the program executes (such as
random access memory associated with a processor), or a storage device such as a disk drive,
flash memory or any other optical, electromagnetic, magnetic, infrared or other device or
combination of devices. In another aspect, any of the processes described above may be
embodied in any suitable transmission or propagation medium carrying the computer
executable code described above and/or any inputs or outputs from same.
        [0097] It will be appreciated that the methods and systems described above are set
forth by way of example and not of limitation. Numerous variations, additions, omissions, and
other modifications will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. In addition, the order or
presentation of method steps in the description and drawings above is not intended to require
this order of performing the recited steps unless a particular order is expressly required or
otherwise clear from the context.
        [00981 The meanings of method steps of the invention(s) described herein are
intended to include any suitable method of causing one or more other parties or entities to
perform the steps, consistent with the patentability of the following claims, unless a different
meaning is expressly provided or otherwise clear from the context. Such parties or entities
                                                23

need not be under the direction or control of any other party or entity, and need not be located
within a particular jurisdiction.
         [0099] Thus for example, a description or recitation of "adding a first number to a
second number" includes causing one or more parties or entities to add the two numbers
together. For example, if person X engages in an arm's length transaction with person Y to
add the two numbers, and person Y indeed adds the two numbers, then both persons X and Y
perform the step as recited: person Y by virtue of the fact that he actually added the numbers,
and person X by virtue of the fact that he caused person Y to add the numbers. Furthermore,
if person X is located within the United States and person Y is located outside the United
States, then the method is performed in the United States by virtue of person X's participation
in causing the step to be performed.
         [00100]         The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims means
'consisting at least in part of. When interpreting statements in this specification and claims
which include the term 'comprising', other features besides the features prefaced by this term
in each statement can also be present. Related terms such as 'comprise' and 'comprised' are
to be interpreted in similar manner.
         [001011         In this specification where reference has been made to patent
specifications, other external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for
the purpose of providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless
specifically stated otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an
admission that such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior
art, or form part of the common general knowledge in the art.
                                                 24

CLAIMS
 I.     An apparatus for producing a frusto-conical structure, the apparatus comprising:
        a feed system operable to move a sheet of material in a first direction;
        a curving device operable to:
                receive the sheet of material from the feed system,
                move the sheet of material in a second direction different from the first
        direction, and
                curve the sheet of material to form the frusto-conical structure; and
        a control system in communication with the feed system and the curving device, the
control system configured to control the feed system and the curving device such that a
portion of the sheet of material that has not yet been curved by the curving device is
maintained at a substantially constant distance from a virtual peak of the frusto-conical
structure as the sheet of material is moved into the curving device, wherein the virtual peak is
located at a point where a taper of the frusto-conical structure would decrease to zero if the
frusto-conical structure were not truncated.
2.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sheet of material comprises a metal sheet.
3.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sheet of material comprises a trapezoidal sheet.
4.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the feed system is configured to drive the sheet of
material in the first direction towards the curving device.
5.      The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the feed system comprises a roller operable to
translate the sheet of material in the first direction.
6.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the feed system is adjustable in two degrees of
freedom to position the sheet of material relative to the curving device.
                                                  25

7.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the feed system is operable to rotate the sheet of
material relative to the curving device.
8.      The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the curving device comprises a triple roll.
9.      The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the triple roll comprises a plurality of rollers
arranged in a bank.
10.     The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the plurality of rollers is steerable to move the sheet
of material in the second direction.
ii.     The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the portion of the sheet of material that has not yet
been curved by the curving device is a first portion, and wherein the apparatus further
comprises a welder controllable to join a second portion of the sheet of material that has been
curved by the curving device with another portion of the frusto-conical structure that has been
curved by the curving device.
12.     An apparatus for producing a frusto-conical structure, the apparatus comprising:
        a feed system comprising a roller operable to drive a metal sheet in a first direction,
the feed system adjustable in two degrees of freedom to position the metal sheet;
        a curving device comprising a triple roll, the triple roll including a plurality of
steerable rollers arranged in a bank, the plurality of steerable rollers operable to:
                receive the metal sheet from the feed system,
                move the metal sheet in a second direction different from the first direction,
        and
                curve the metal sheet to form the frusto-conical structure;
        a welder operable to join the metal sheet to itself or to other metal sheets; and
        a control system in communication with the feed system, the curving device, and the
welder, the control system configured to:
                control the feed system and the curving device such that, as the metal sheet is
        driven into the curving device, a first portion of the metal sheet that has not yet been
                                                 26

        curved by the curving device is maintained at a substantially constant distance from a
        virtual peak of the frusto-conical structure, the virtual peak being located at a point
        where a taper of the frusto-conical structure would decrease to zero if the frusto
        conical structure were not truncated, and
                control the welder to join a second portion of the metal sheet that has been
        curved by the curving device with another portion of the frusto-conical structure that
        has been curved by the curving device.
13.     An apparatus for producing a frusto-conical structure, the apparatus comprising:
        a feed system operable to move a sheet of material in a first direction;
        a curving device operable to:
                receive the sheet of material from the feed system,
                move the sheet of material in a second direction different from the first
        direction, and
                curve the sheet of material to form the frusto-conical structure; and
        a control system in communication with the feed system and the curving device, the
control system configured to control the feed system and the curving device in a manner such
that a portion of the sheet of material that has not yet been curved by the curving device is
rotated about a virtual peak at a substantially constant radial distance from the virtual peak as
the sheet of material is moved into the curving device, wherein the virtual peak is located at a
point where a taper of the frusto-conical structure would decrease to zero if the frusto-conical
structure were not truncated.
                                                 27

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
