                                         Abstract
An improved reward system for consumers where cash credits, not points, are collected and
redeemed at any time with every purchase from cafes and fast food outlets. The consumer
may also redeem their cash credits at any time without having to collect a 'minimum'. A
reward system in accordance with this invention comprises a QR (quick response) code
sticker applied to any item in which a business would like to apply cash credits to. Typical
items include, take away coffees, banana breads, muffins and salads. The QR code sticker is
applied on the packaging of the item or in the case of customers eating in, on the customer
receipt. The QR code sticker is configured by the business owner using an app. The business
may decide which items, how many of each item and the credit applied to each item.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

For many years reward systems particularly for cafes and fast food outlets have consisted of a points
system. This system entails the customer making a purchase, usually a coffee, and receiving points
for each coffee. These points are accumulated and then when a minimum is reached the customer
may redeem their points for a free coffee.
This invention has been specially devised in order to provide an improved reward system for
consumers where cash credits, not points, are collected and redeemed at any time with every
purchase from cafes and fast food outlets. The consumer may also redeem their cash credits at
anytime without having to collect a 'minimum'.
A reward system in accordance with this invention comprises a QR (quick response) code sticker
applied to any item in which a business would like to apply cash credits to. Typical items include,
take away coffees, banana breads, muffins and salads.
The QR code sticker is applied on the packaging of the item or in the case of customers eating in, on
the customer receipt.
The QR code sticker is configured by the business owner using an app. The business may decide
which items, how many of each item and the credit applied to each item.
The customer will scan the QR code sticker on the item and the credit for each item will be displayed
on their app. Credits are accumulated and may be redeemed at anytime at the place of purchase by
pressing the Redeem button on the customer app.
The invention may be better understood with reference to the illustrations of embodiments of the
invention which
Figure 1 is an top view of a disposable coffee lid with a QR code sticker applied.
Figure 2 is a side view of the said disposable coffee lid.
This QR code sticker on the said coffee lid is scanned by an app the customer downloads on their
phone.
When scanned, a credit amount is displayed as well as the name of the business the credit amount
applies to. At this point, a 'Redeem' button is also clickable which allows the customer to redeem
their cash credits.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. Stickers wherein QR codes are printed which contain business names, item names and cash
        credit amounts.
    2. A sticker as claimed in claim 1 wherein each QR code contains at least a business name, one
        item name and a cash credit amount.
    3.  The stickers as claimed in claim 1 applied to food, beverage or any other consumable items
        wherein the item may also be a customer receipt.
    4.  An app which creates the QR codes as claimed in claim 1.
    5.  A second app which scans, reads and retrieves the information on the QR code stickers as
        claimed in claim 1.
    6.  The app as claimed in claim 5 wherein a Redeem button is clickable.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
