Abstract
A climbing device is proposed having at least one climbing
rail   (14) for adjusting and/or climbing a scaffolding and/or a
formwork and/or a platform, at least one climbing shoe         (15,
16) being arranged on the climbing rail        (14), at least one
hydraulic cylinder    (2) comprising at least one drive piston
 (10),  arranged in a cylinder housing     (12),  and having a
hydraulic fluid being provided for raising the climbing shoe
 (15,  16) and/or the climbing rail    (14) and/or the scaffolding
and/or the formwork and/or the platform, which at least
partially avoids or at least     reduces the disadvantages of the
prior art. According to the invention this is achieved in that
the hydraulic cylinder     (2) is embodied as a hydraulic unit
 (1),  the hydraulic unit   (1) comprising at least one hydraulic
tank   (5) for storing hydraulic fluid, an electric motor       (3)
and a hydraulic pump    (4) driven by the electric motor      (3) for
pressurizing the hydraulic fluid.

          1/4
 16
    1    2
                  8
13
              4
              5
        10      17
      Fig. 1

                              - 1
"Climbing device having a climbing rail"
This application claims priority from German Application No.
10 2016 125 549.1 filed on 23 December 2016, the contents of
which are to be taken as incorporated herein by this
reference.
The invention relates to a climbing device having at least one
climbing rail for adjusting and/or climbing a scaffolding
and/or a formwork and/or a platform according to the pre
characterizing part of claim 1 and a corresponding climbing
system.
Prior art
In constructing or producing walls, floors, counter-ceilings
or roofs etc., that is to say primarily in the formwork and
scaffolding sector, the climbing devices used, such as
climbing scaffolds, displaceable platforms and climbing
formworks, for example, are preferably ones which are usually
arranged on a structure or building that is to be constructed
from concrete, in particular a high-rise building, wind power
station, storage silo, bridge piers or power station and
cooling towers etc., and which are integral parts of a so
called climbing system or a climbing formwork, which after
concreting of a section of a structural wall is raised
(without external intervention) one section higher, that is to
say it "independently climbs upwards", so that a further
section of the wall can be concreted there.

                              -  2
The essence of such a displaceable platform lies in the fact
that in climbing it does not have or need a direct connection
to the ground and is only fixed to the already concreted
section situated below the section to be concreted by climbing
or so-called "support shoes".   Two carrier rails arranged side
by side at an interval from one another are usually provided
for each formwork panel. In principle, however, a version
having only one carrier rail in the center of a formwork panel
is also possible.
In principle these climbing devices can also be used for the
horizontal or upwards sloping displacement/climbing of tunnel
formwork transport wagons, reinforcement transport wagons, and
mobile wall formworks, for example for retaining walls or the
like.
Owing to the extensive concreting widths and therefore
formwork widths, the climbing systems already in use must be
synchronized with adjacent climbing devices and climbing
rails, constant observations and correction often proving
unable to maintain this synchronization.
Such self-climbing devices  (cf. for example DE 10  2005 030 336
Al) have at least one linear drive or a hydraulic
drive/cylinder, which generates a relative movement between at
least one displaceable bracket and at least one
carrier/climbing rail running in the displacement direction,
the connection between the linear drive and the carrier rail
being created by climbing shoes or so-called climbing heads
arranged at a distance from one another, which usually
comprise a pivoting locking element or the like and have

                              - 3
locking cams interacting with the locking element in the path
of the locking element traversed in a relative movement
between the carrier rail and the climbing head/climbing shoe,
the locking element being raised above the locking cam in the
event of a relative movement in one direction, but running
onto the locking cam in the other direction of movement, so
that the one climbing head/shoe is positively interlocked with
the carrier rail, blocking this relative movement, whilst a
relative movement overcoming the locking cam occurs on the
other climbing head/shoe.
In climbing, the section of scaffolding has no direct
connection to the ground, nor is any crane needed, if a linear
drive, for example a hydraulic drive, is provided on the
scaffolding, which drive in one operation raises the
scaffolding section on the carrier rail and in the other
operation raises the carrier rail relative to the scaffolding
section.
One disadvantage with the existing climbing devices, however,
is that the several meter-long hydraulic hoses between the
hydraulic cylinders and the carrier rails have to be coupled
and uncoupled again for each section or story. This gives rise
on the one hand to leakages/losses, so that after a certain
time the tank/reservoir is drained of hydraulic fluid and has
to be filled up again.
On the other hand, in the rough, dirty construction site
conditions fouling of the hydraulic connections and damage to
the hydraulic meter-long pressure hoses, lying around on the
scaffolding and the climbing device, can occur, which can
impair or damage the hydraulic system and even cause a
(temporary) halt to operations and necessitate repair or

                              - 4
replacement of the pressure hoses.
Power losses moreover occur in the hoses that are many meters
long, which is something the central hydraulic pump has to
compensate for; otherwise a fall in pressure occurs on the
individual cylinders, therefore reducing the climbing/lifting
force. At the same time minimal hydraulic
differences/tolerances in the components used mean that a
laborious calibration of the  (multiple) hydraulic cylinders is
necessary in order to ensure that these multiple cylinders and
scaffolding modules/formworks operate as synchronously as
possible.
For safety reasons, due among other things to the fact that
personnel are also sometimes raised with the climbing device,
the hydraulic components, in particular meter-long pressure
hoses, must meet very stringent requirements, which means a
very high maintenance and servicing/replacement cost.
Object and advantages of the invention
In contrast, the object of the invention is to propose a
climbing device having at least one climbing rail for
adjusting and/or climbing a scaffolding and/or a formwork
and/or a platform, which at least partially avoids or at least
reduces the disadvantages of the prior art.
Proceeding from a climbing device having at least one climbing
rail for adjusting and/or climbing a scaffolding and/or a
formwork and/or a platform of the aforesaid type, this object

                              - 5
is achieved by the characterizing features of claim 1.  The
measures specified in the dependent claims allow advantageous
embodiments and developments of the invention.
Accordingly, a distinguishing feature of a climbing device
according to the invention is that the hydraulic cylinder is
embodied as a hydraulic unit, the hydraulic unit comprising at
least one hydraulic tank for storing hydraulic fluid, an
electric motor and a hydraulic pump that can be driven by the
electric motor for pressurizing the hydraulic fluid.
This measure means that the hydraulic unit is advantageously
embodied as a separately operated hydraulic module. This or
each hydraulic unit/module is assigned to each climbing rail.
For example, in a relatively large structural formwork with 20
or 30 climbing rails according to the invention 20 or 30
hydraulic units/modules are used, so that not only 20 or 30
hydraulic cylinders but according to the invention furthermore
also 20 or 30 hydraulic tanks, 20 or 30  electric motors and 20
or 30 hydraulic pumps are provided. This means that as far as
possible a complete or hydraulically fully
functional/independent hydraulic unit/module is feasible,
which is arranged  (directly) on a climbing rail or is in each
case operatively connected to an associated climbing rail in
order to perform the relative adjustment between the
structure/building and the climbing device/system/scaffolding
and the climbing/raising of the climbing device according to
the invention.
This means, among other things, that according to the
invention meter-long hydraulic hoses can be avoided and no
longer have to be used. Accordingly, the pressure hoses or
flexible/elastic hydraulic lines which are especially prone to

                              -  6
failure and hitherto used to lie around, sometimes over
several dozen meters on a scaffolding or a climbing device
according to the prior art, or had to be inserted between the
individual hydraulic cylinders or climbing rails,   are entirely
eliminated. This elimination by the invention of long,
flexible, hydraulic pressure hoses between the various
hydraulic cylinders or rails already of its self brings about
a significant improvement in operating reliability and avoids
any fouling of the hydraulic system or circuit. Thus,   for
example, so-called socket couplings or the like on/between the
individual hydraulic cylinders can be entirely avoided.
The hydraulic unit/module advantageously comprises rigid
and/or firmly fixed hydraulic lines, in particular metal pipes
with threaded connections, crimped connections or the like,
preferably between the hydraulic cylinder and the hydraulic
pump and/or between the hydraulic pump and the hydraulic
tank/hydraulic accumulator. The essential thing here is that
these hydraulic lines are not   detached and connected/coupled
up/screwed on again in operation or before and after a
climbing operational phase. Instead, these hydraulic
couplings/connections are generated/made, for example firmly
screwed on or crimped, during the assembly/manufacture of the
hydraulic unit/module, and have only to be detached in the
event of a repair or a replacement of the hydraulic cylinder
and/or the hydraulic pump and/or of the hydraulic
tank/hydraulic accumulator.
Accordingly, the hydraulic tank/hydraulic accumulator and the
hydraulic circuit can be "filled for life". That   is to say the
hydraulic fluid is introduced/fed in during the manufacture
and assembly of the hydraulic unit/module and possibly lasts

for the entire service life of the hydraulic unit/module
without the need for topping up.
In an advantageous variant of the invention the hydraulic unit
or hydraulic module comprises a housing shell and/or a housing
frame, at least the cylinder housing of the hydraulic
cylinder, the hydraulic tank, the electric motor and the
hydraulic pump being arranged and firmly fixed at least
partially inside the housing shell and/or housing frame. This
serves to improve the scope  for (separate) operation of the
hydraulic unit or hydraulic module. Moreover, the housing
shell and/or housing frame serves to protect the hydraulic
unit or hydraulic module  (externally) from harm or damage.
This is of great advantage particularly in the rough, dirty
construction site conditions. For example, a  (heavy)
element/tool falling over or dropping is advantageously
prevented by the housing shell and/or housing frame from
damaging an "internal part" or an internally arranged
component, in particular a pressurized element/pipe and/or an
electronic/electrical element such as a circuit board, an
electronic unit etc. This also increases the operating
reliability of the climbing device according to the invention.
The housing shell may preferably be of a virtually fully
closed construction, that is to say it may have a virtually
closed shell/enveloping surface. For example, a plastic and/or
metal housing is provided as housing shell of the hydraulic
unit or hydraulic module. However, without departing from the
scope of the invention the housing shell may also comprise
openings, cut-outs or passages or the like.  If necessary, only
a rigid frame or the like is constructed as the housing frame
according to the invention, which keeps together the
corresponding elements/components of the hydraulic unit or

                              - 8
hydraulic module according to the invention, in particular
with or without an aforementioned housing shell,  so that the
hydraulic unit is advantageously embodied as a separately
operated unit or as an integral module.
In one particular development of the invention  (rigid and/or
fixedly connected) hydraulic lines/pipes are provided inside
the housing shell and/or housing frame for hydraulically
connecting the hydraulic pump to the hydraulic cylinder and/or
between the hydraulic pump and hydraulic tank/hydraulic
accumulator, and/or the hydraulic unit or hydraulic module
comprises a closed hydraulic circuit. This serves to achieve
an advantageous hydraulic autonomy or independence of the
hydraulic unit or hydraulic module according to the invention.
This makes the hydraulic unit or hydraulic module particularly
flexible in terms of its insertion/ positioning and operation.
In principle it is feasible, for example, for the hydraulic
unit or hydraulic module to be designed and/or arranged so
that not only can the climbing device according to the
invention be raised, but the hydraulic unit or hydraulic
module also raises itself or itself climbs with the device.
The latter means that the hydraulic cylinder, at one end
firmly fixed to the building etc., does not have to be
detached or dismounted following the climbing or the climbing
phase, usually comprising multiple climbing steps, that is to
say the raising phase, and carried to the next floor/story
above, as have hitherto been necessary; instead the entire
hydraulic unit or hydraulic module according to the invention
raises itself or itself performs a climbing step following a
climbing step or after the climbing/raising phase. Here a
double or bilaterally acting hydraulic cylinder is
advantageous, so that the extended piston rod with fixed

                              - 9
(upper) end lifts the lower end and/or the cylinder or the
cylinder housing and the hydraulic unit pulls itself up.
Accordingly, it is feasible for one end of the hydraulic unit
to be alternately fixed and the other end of the hydraulic
unit to be adjusted or raised. This would dispense with the
need for dismounting on a lower story and subsequent
transporting or carrying by personnel and then fitting the
hydraulic system or the hydraulic unit to/on a higher story.
For example, a power supply device of the hydraulic unit
comprises at least one electrical connection element for
delivering electrical power. Preferably only an electrical
power supply is provided as power supply to the hydraulic unit
or hydraulic module and not a hydraulic power supply. This
means that only electrical cables/connections can/must be
provided between two or more hydraulic units or hydraulic
modules. This affords a significantly more  flexible power
supply for the climbing or raising of the climbing device or a
complex/larger climbing system having numerous climbing
devices and/or hydraulic units or hydraulic modules. The
outlay for the power supply is hereby decisively reduced/
improved.
Power losses such as occurred in the existing hydraulic power
supply systems or meter-long hydraulic hoses are moreover
thereby avoided. This increases the input energy efficiency.
The hydraulic unit or hydraulic module advantageously
comprises an electrical power storage system, in particular an
accumulator such as a lithium ion battery etc.,  and/or an
electrical power source or electrical generator such as a
solar cell or photovoltaic unit,  for example. Complete
(energy) self-sufficiency or independence of the individual

                             - 10
hydraulic unit or hydraulic modules can thereby be achieved.
For example, a solar energy facility may be used in
conjunction with an electrical power storage system, the power
storage system being charged by solar energy or a photovoltaic
unit, which is used for pressure generation and/or electrical
monitoring/control/regulation. This is of great advantage
particularly in the case of climbing devices according to the
invention, since the climbing phase is comparatively short,
for example approximately 20 to 50 minutes, followed by a
relatively long construction/concreting phase, for example
approximately 2 to 5 hours or even a day or more, that is to
say a rest phase of the hydraulic unit or hydraulic module,
which corresponds to an operational phase with no climbing or
without any climbing power consumption.
Accordingly, a photovoltaic unit or the like of comparatively
small dimensions is advantageously capable, particularly in
sunny localities/countries, of charging the electrical power
storage system and storing a comparatively large amount of
electrical energy and making this available to the electric
motor and the pressure generation and hence the
climbing/raising of the climbing device according to the
invention in the relatively short climbing phase.
The hydraulic unit preferably comprises at least one
electrical and/or electronic control unit for controlling at
least the hydraulic cylinder and/or electric motor. This
serves to ensure, particularly when at least two or more
hydraulic units or hydraulic modules are used, that an
advantageous electrical/electronic balance or a
synchronization of the hydraulic cylinders is achieved. Thus a
climbing system and a network, for example, with approximately
11 to 50 hydraulic cylinders/units or hydraulic modules can be

                             - 11
electronically/ electrically monitored and controlled, in
order to achieve an even climbing of the climbing device. An
elaborate hydraulic balancing or calibration, as in the prior
art, is eliminated.
At least a first hydraulic unit and a second hydraulic unit
are advantageously provided, in particular multiple hydraulic
units or hydraulic modules, at least one electrical connecting
lead being arranged between the first and the second hydraulic
unit or between all the hydraulic units or hydraulic modules,
(each) for the electrical and/or electronic connection and/or
for the electrical power supply and/or for the electronic
transmission of data and information.
At least one electrical and/or electronic central unit is
preferably provided for controlling at least the first and the
second hydraulic unit and/or all the hydraulic units or
hydraulic modules. The central unit is integrated into the
first hydraulic unit, for example, so that the first hydraulic
unit is designed as master hydraulic unit and the second
hydraulic unit and/or further hydraulic units as slave
hydraulic units.
Alternatively or in combination with this the central unit may
also be embodied as a separate component/unit of the climbing
device according to the invention, which is connected to the
hydraulic unit(s) electrically and/or electronically, or by
wired means and/or wirelessly or via remote data/radio
transmission. The central unit may take the form, for example,
of a computer, notebook, laptop, PDA, smartphone or the like.
The connection between the hydraulic units or hydraulic

                              - 12
modules and/or between hydraulic units and the central unit
advantageously comprises at least one transmitter and/or
receiver for wireless information and data transmission
between at least two hydraulic units or hydraulic modules
and/or between the control unit and/or the central unit and/or
the hydraulic units etc. Such a radio connection between two
hydraulic units or hydraulic modules and the control and/or
central unit affords an especially flexible data connection or
control/monitoring of the climbing device according to the
invention. This reduces the outlay for the laying of cables,
for example between corresponding units or between the
hydraulic units or hydraulic modules, sometimes spaced at
intervals of several  (dozen) meters from one another.
In one particular development of the invention the electrical
and/or electronic control unit or the addressable control unit
is embodied as a control unit for monitoring the operating
state of the hydraulic units or hydraulic modules. The control
unit preferably comprises an addressable interface to a
digital data transmission unit.   This measure serves to allow
activation or control/monitoring of the hydraulic unit or
hydraulic module when the digital data transmission unit
transmits addressed data or data with a corresponding address
of the hydraulic unit or hydraulic module to the addressable
interface. Accordingly, given a correspondingly transmitted or
correct address, the interface advantageously switches or
connects the electrical energy/information of the hydraulic
units or hydraulic modules. The data/information transmission
is preferably separate from the power supply. Two energy
conductor elements or electrical supply cables/leads are now
hereby sufficient for the power supply of the hydraulic units
or hydraulic modules.

                             - 13
Multiple hydraulic units or hydraulic modules according to the
invention are advantageously connected in series in relation
to the power supply, or a single power circuit is provided for
multiple hydraulic units or hydraulic modules. Control or
balancing/synchronization is advantageously achieved through
the addressing. This means, for example, that with multiple,
for example 20 to 40 hydraulic units or hydraulic modules a
specific hydraulic unit or hydraulic module is
activated/controlled when the associated address, which is
transmitted to the addressable interface by means of the
digital data transmission unit and matches an advantageously
defined address of the specific interface or hydraulic unit or
hydraulic module. The interface accordingly switches or
connects the respective hydraulic unit or the respective
electric motor of the hydraulic pump to the power supply, in
order to control/regulate the adjustment/extending of the
piston or the coordination of the adjustment of all hydraulic
cylinders.
Should the address transmitted by means of the data
transmission unit not match the defined address of the
hydraulic unit, the interface of the corresponding hydraulic
unit or hydraulic modules does not switch and the electric
motor continues to be operated and supplied with power without
any change. That is to say there is no variation or
adjustment/correction of the rate at which the piston extends.
In one particular development of the invention at least one
address and/or a code is assigned substantially to each of the
hydraulic units or hydraulic modules. Such addressing or
coding of the individual hydraulic units or hydraulic modules
serves to achieve an unambiguous or advantageous assignment.
This is of particular advantage especially in the case of a

                              -  14
wireless data transmission between the hydraulic units or
hydraulic modules.
In an advantageous variant of the invention at least one
electrical data memory is provided for storing the operating
states of at least one of the hydraulic units or hydraulic
modules and/or hydraulic cylinders. Such an advantageous data
memory advantageously serves,   for example, for performing
statistical analyses among other things over a specific
operating period for an application or a construction site, or
for example a month or a year. For example, faults, damage
etc. on the hydraulic units or hydraulic modules can be
correspondingly stored or detected.
At least one display unit is preferably provided for visually
displaying the operating states of at least one of the
hydraulic units or hydraulic modules and/or the hydraulic
cylinders. The display unit takes the form, in particular, of
a display screen. Such an advantageous visual representation
affords entirely fresh scope for the central monitoring or
remote monitoring of multiple hydraulic units or climbing
devices according to the invention.
In addition the display unit also serves precisely for visual
representations of the stored operating states or
statistically evaluated operating states and/or actual states
during the climbing phase.
The display unit is preferably designed for displaying all
hydraulic units or hydraulic modules and/or data connections.
This advantageously allows overall monitoring of all the
components or hydraulic units or hydraulic modules concerned.

                             - 15
This is of particular advantage especially for a site manager,
foreman, manager or the like, in centrally registering or
aggregating the individual hydraulic units or hydraulic
modules and hence the individual hydraulic cylinders or the
like, for example, looking at or monitoring these at a later
time, possibly with the aid of the advantageous data storage,
and/or performing statistical calculations and representing
them in an advantageous way. This affords a new way of
optimizing the operation of the monitored climbing phase or
climbing device according to the invention.
A computer in particular, preferably a notebook computer, a
so-called PDA, or even a mobile phone or other portable
electronic media are of particular advantage for displaying
and/or storing and calculating statistical analyses or the
like.
 advantageously covers the entire operation of the climbing
device or of the climbing system according to the invention,
particularly where computers, notebook computers, PDA or the
like are used. For example, such electronic devices are
incorporated or integrated into the hydraulic unit or
hydraulic module via advantageous or standard commercial
interfaces. Here, for example, so-called bus systems may be
used, such as, for example, USB, RS232, Ethernet etc.,  but
also wireless communications systems such as Bluetooth etc.
According to the invention a complex network with multiple
hydraulic units or hydraulic modules and possibly computers,
mobile phones, PDA or the like can be set up, which make it
possible to display the operating states of widely differing
hydraulic units or hydraulic modules.
A hydraulic unit or hydraulic module may generally also

                              - 16
comprise further units, such as,   for example, acoustic
signaling, further sensors for registering particular states
etc. Their operating states or signals   can advantageously be
processed like the operating states of the hydraulic units or
hydraulic modules, as outlined above, or relayed to the
control unit or the central unit and if necessary displayed.
This is an advantageous way of incorporating further functions
and controls of the hydraulic units or hydraulic modules.
In principle it is also feasible by means of an advantageous
programming, for example by means of a so-called App program
or the like, to achieve integration for the operation of the
climbing device according to the invention or new functions of
appropriate  (mobile) telecommunications  devices for no great
outlay. For example, the manufacturer of one climbing device
according to the invention provides corresponding software or
"Apps" for the customers or users of the climbing device
according to the invention. This can be achieved, for example,
via remote data transmission or Internet or the like,    so that
the user can then additionally use his existing, for example,
private mobile telecommunications device   (with Internet
connection) such as a smartphone, tablet or the like, also for
configuring or modifying the settings and/or display or
monitoring/controlling climbing devices according to the
invention. This endows the climbing device according to the
invention with an additional functionality. In this way, for
example, the outlay for monitoring and/or displaying the
climbing device or a relatively complex/larger climbing system
is considerably reduced.
Through appropriate coding or modulation and/or encryption of
the wireless adjustment information a high degree of
operational security is achieved in the case of the climbing

                              - 17
device. For example, display/monitoring/control using a mobile
telecommunications device can also be secured against
unauthorized tampering by using a password or corresponding
access code.
In principle the customer/user can take or receive the
information for configuration or adjustment of the operating
parameters and/or operation via the Internet and/or via an
"App" or the like and store it on corresponding
telecommunications devices and advantageously then wirelessly
transmit the information or settings or the configurations to
the climbing device according to the invention. Also, for
example, an advantageous simulation of selected operating
parameters or the "envisaged " operating parameters may also
be simulated and varied on an Internet page, an "App" or with
the aid of the  (mobile) telecommunications device on the
display screen. Thus, for example, pressures, piston speeds,
soft starting and/or soft runout or so-called "ramps", pause
intervals or operating times and operating pauses as well as
warning signals or signal lights or signal tones, in
particular their loudness, frequency or pulsing, fading etc.
and/or tone sequences or melodies or the like can be watched
or listened to by means of the advantageous telecommunications
device and/or adjusted or played and according to the
invention transmitted wirelessly to the climbing device and
the latter thereby configured according to the invention or
its operating parameters correspondingly set.
At least one piston sensor is preferably provided for
registering the position/adjustment of the drive piston of the
hydraulic cylinder, in particular a volumetric sensor or cable
sensor or the like. This serves for detecting the actual
position of the drive piston and preferably all drive pistons

                              - 18
of all hydraulic cylinders. Thus by means of the control unit
it is advantageously possible to achieve a balancing or
separate monitoring/control of the/the individual hydraulic
cylinder(s) or   all hydraulic units or hydraulic modules
(separately),  in order to ensure a largely precise
synchronization of the climbing process and the climbing
device according to the invention.
In principle according to the invention it is possible to
combine any number of hydraulic units or hydraulic modules
with one another, in particular all the units existing/needed
and/or also an even or an odd number of hydraulic units or
hydraulic modules. In the prior art, on the other hand, so
called flow dividers were usual, in order to operate two
cylinders synchronously with a common pump, which therefore
only allowed the use of an even number of hydraulic cylinders.
The electrical/electronic balancing or synchronization
according to the invention is therefore decisively more
flexible and can be used with virtually no restrictions.
Exemplary embodiment
An exemplary embodiment of the invention is represented in the
drawing and is explained in more detail below with reference
to the figures,  of which.
     Fig. 1     schematically shows in section a hydraulic unit
                of a climbing device according to the invention
                for adjusting and/or climbing a scaffolding
                and/or a formwork and/or a platform,

                              - 19
     Fig. 2    schematically shows a perspective view of the
               hydraulic unit according to the invention in
               Fig. 1,
     Fig. 3    schematically shows a hydraulic unit on a
               climbing rail in two different operating states
               of a climbing device according to the invention
               for adjusting and/or climbing a scaffolding
               and/or a formwork and/or a platform and
     Fig. 4    schematically shows a topology or
               interconnection of multiple hydraulic units and
               a separate central unit of a climbing device
               according to the invention.
Fig. 1 schematically represents a hydraulic unit 1 of a
climbing device for adjusting and/or climbing a scaffolding
not shown in further detail, and/or a formwork and/or a
platform according to the invention. The hydraulic unit 1
comprises a hydraulic cylinder 2, an electric motor 3,  a
hydraulic pump 4 and a hydraulic tank 5 for storing hydraulic
fluid/oil. The electric motor-powered pump 4 furthermore
comprises a control block 6.
In addition the hydraulic unit 1 comprises an electronics unit
7 or control unit, particularly for controlling/regulating and
monitoring the electric motor 3 and/or a sensor 11 and/or a
display/signal light  9. The sensor 11 preferably takes the
form of a position sensor 11 and is arranged in the hydraulic
cylinder 2 or in the cylinder housing 12,  in order to detect

                              - 20
an adjustment or an extension/retraction of a piston 10 and to
transmit  signals/data, among other things to the electronics
7.
The hydraulic unit 1 furthermore comprises a housing 13,  in
which the aforementioned components are arranged and
protected. In this case it is embodied as a closed housing
shell, so that the components/elements arranged/integrated
herein are protected from dirt and/or damage etc. The
hydraulic unit 1 can therefore be carried as an integral
module by one person, preferably by means of two carrying
handles  17.
However, hydraulic units 1 according to the invention of
comparatively large and heavy dimensions can also be
designed/used as integral modules, which are two heavy for one
person, so that these large/heavy hydraulic units 1 preferably
have to be transported by a lifting device such as an
elevator, lifting platform, crane or the like, particularly
between the construction sections, floors of the building,
platforms of the scaffolding, etc.
The hydraulic unit 1 therefore comprises hydraulic
components/actuators/sensors on the one hand and
electrical/electronic components/actuators/sensors on the
other, so that here the hydraulic unit 1 may also be referred
to as a "hybrid cylinder". This means that in the hydraulic
unit 1 according to the invention two technologies are
combined with one another, that is to say here the hydraulics
and the electrics/electronics.
The hydraulic unit 1 furthermore comprises multiple electrical

                              -  21
plugs 8 or plug-and-socket connectors   8, which ensure the
electrical power supply to the hydraulic unit 1. For example,
multiple connectors 8 are provided, on the one hand for the
power supply of the electric motor 3 and/or the electronics 7
and on the other for relaying power to a second hydraulic unit
1  (cf. Fig. 4).
In addition, separate electrical connectors or the like may
also be provided in order to form an electrical/electronic
network or a digital bus system/network. This interlinking of
multiple hydraulic units 1 may accordingly comprise any number
of hydraulic units 1 as represented schematically in Fig. 4.
The hydraulic units 1 here may be connected to one
another/interconnected by means of electrical connecting
cables 20 for the power supply and/or for the data/information
transmission and/or connected to a separate, central control
unit 19. The data/information transmission in particular may
also be achieved wirelessly or by means of transmitters and
receivers.
Climbing scaffoldings or rail climbing systems have long been
used, so that a comprehensive representation and description
of the climbing device according to the invention with all
components and their operating principles or interaction/
operating sequences are largely dispensed with, since the
principles of these are known to the person skilled in the
art.
Here only the hydraulic unit 1 according to the invention and
its arrangement in Fig. 3 will be described in somewhat more
detail. Fig. 3 represents two climbing shoes 15,   16, which are
coupled to a climbing rail 14   in a known manner. The climbing
shoes 15,  16 can be displaced/moved along the climbing rail

                              - 22
14,  so that the hydraulic unit 1 is guided on/by the climbing
rail 14.  The climbing shoe 15,  16 has a detent system known to
the person skilled in the art, by which its direction of
movement is predefined. A travel/displacement in the opposite
direction is not possible without influencing the climbing
shoes 15,  16.
A support  shoe 17 couples a scaffolding/platform, not  further
defined, or the like to the climbing rail 14.   The climbing
operation is illustrated by comparing the two figures   3a) and
3b).  In Fig. 3a) a rod side of a cylinder 2 is supplied with
hydraulic fluid/oil or pressurized by way of the hydraulic
unit 1. The climbing shoe 15 prevents a downward movement, and
therefore the climbing shoe 16 traverses in the direction of
the cylinder 2.
In Fig. 3b) a bottom side of the cylinder 2 is supplied with
oil by way of the hydraulic unit 1. The climbing shoe 16
prevents a downward movement, and therefore the climbing shoe
15 and the support  shoe 17 traverse around the cylinder
length. A  climbing step is therefore completed. The operating
states according to Fig. 3a) and 3b) are repeated until the
desired position the of the platform or the like, not   further
represented, is reached.
In general terms the following may be highlighted as
particular advantages of the hydraulic unit 1 according to the
invention:
1. Each hybrid cylinder or hydraulic unit 1 is a self
contained working unit.
2. Each hybrid cylinder or hydraulic unit 1 has a so-called
"oil filling for life".

                               - 23
3. No opening of the (closed) hydraulic circuit of the
hydraulic unit 1 is necessary.
4. No aging and replacement of hydraulic hoses   (service life
max. 6 years).
5. Travel measurement in the hybrid cylinder or hydraulic unit
1 allows an "absolute" synchronization of all hydraulic units
1 or hybrid cylinders.
6. No calibration necessary   (offset and/or staggered travel
possible in the synchronization)
7. Individual hybrid cylinders or hydraulic units 1 or in the
complete network can be run with synchronization.
8. Any number of hybrid cylinders or hydraulic units 1 can be
coupled (if necessary by multiple central units 19),   for
example 16-32-64 items or hydraulic units 1
9. Odd numbers of hybrid cylinders also possible for example
1-3-5-7 items or hydraulic units 1.
10. No power loss of the thrust force due to hydraulic flow
resistances, for example through flow dividers, flow
regulators etc.
11. No power loss of the thrust force due to long hose lines.
12. Negotiation of ramps  (soft starting, variations in
steepness/length etc.)  possible.
13. Interconnection of the hybrid cylinders or hydraulic units
1 only by electrical cables.
14.  (Sensor/electronic/electrical) cut-off in the event of
"Overload ".
15. Overload control is electrically adjustable.
16. Diagnostic facilities and display of the system status for
example by Interlink.

                                - 24
Claims
1.   Climbing device having at least one climbing rail          (14) for
adjusting and/or climbing a scaffolding and/or a formwork
and/or a platform, at least one climbing shoe       (15, 16) being
arranged on the climbing rail     (14),  at least one hydraulic
cylinder  (2) comprising at least one drive piston (10),
arranged in a cylinder housing,      (12) and having a hydraulic
fluid being provided for raising the climbing shoe         (15, 16)
and/or the climbing rail    (14) and/or the scaffolding and/or
the formwork and/or the platform, characterized in that the
hydraulic cylinder  (2) is embodied as a hydraulic unit         (1),
the hydraulic unit  (1) comprising at least one hydraulic tank
(5) for storing hydraulic fluid, an electric motor (3) and a
hydraulic pump  (4) driven by the electric motor       (3) for
pressurizing the hydraulic fluid.
2.   Climbing device according to Claim 1, characterized in
that the hydraulic unit   (1) comprises a housing shell        (13)
and/or a housing frame, at least the cylinder housing          (12) of
the hydraulic cylinder   (2),  the hydraulic tank     (5),  the
electric motor (3) and the hydraulic pump       (4) being arranged
at least partially inside the housing shell       (13) and/or
housing frame.

                                    - 25
3.       Climbing device according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that hydraulic lines are provided inside the
housing shell      (13) and/or housing frame for hydraulically
connecting the hydraulic pump         (4) to the hydraulic cylinder
(2) and/or a closed hydraulic circuit.
4.       Climbing device according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that a power supply device          (8) of the
hydraulic unit      (1) comprises at least one electrical
connection element       (8) for delivering electrical power.
5.       Climbing device according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the hydraulic unit         (1) comprises at
least one electrical and/or electronic control unit           (7) for
controlling at least the hydraulic cylinder          (2) and/or
electric     motor  (3).
6.       Climbing device according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that at least a first hydraulic unit           (1) and
a second hydraulic unit       (1) are provided, at least one
electrical connecting lead        (20) being arranged between the
first and the second hydraulic unit         (1) for the electrical
and/or electronic connection and/or for the electrical power
supply and/or for the electronic transmission of data and
information.
7.       Climbing device according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that at least one electrical and/or
electronic central unit       (19) is provided for controlling at
least the first and the second hydraulic unit          (1).

                               - 26
8.   Climbing device according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that at least one piston sensor   (11)   is
provided for registering the position/adjustment of the drive
piston   (10) of the hydraulic cylinder (2).
9.   Climbing device according to one of the preceding claims,
characterized in that the electrical and/or electronic control
unit  (7) is embodied at least as an addressable control unit.
10.  Climbing system having a scaffolding and/or a formwork
and/or a platform, at least two hydraulic cylinders     (2) being
arranged on at least two climbing rails   (2), characterized in
that at least one climbing device according to one of the
preceding claims is provided.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

