                              A TRAILER COUPLING MOUNT
ABSTRACT
A trailer coupling mount is disclosed. The trailer coupling mount includes, in one embodi
ment, a base element and one or more tether attachment points integral with the base
element. In some embodiments the tether attachment points are disposed on one or more
tabs which are formed from the base element and extend therefrom.

      1/5
               10
40
            17
                2
   Figure 1

                                        1
                                AUSTRALIA
                             Patents Act 1990
   COMPLETE INNOVATION PATENT SPECIFICATION
                     ARK Corporation Pty Ltd
                                Invention Title:
                  A TRAILER COUPLING MOUNT
The invention is described in the following statement, including the best method
                         known to us of implementing it:

                                               2
                               A TRAILER COUPLING MOUNT
Technical Field
1.      The present technology relates generally to structural elements and accessory el
        ements for assembling trailers and other towed vehicles. Embodiments of the
        technology find particularly suitable application in off-road trailers and off-road
        towed vehicles such as caravans and camper trailers.
Background
2.      Trailer couplings are known, usually in the form of ball-joint receivers and the like.
        Off road trailer couplings vary from that structural form, but in general, the trailer
        couplings (of any suitable form) mount to base plates, which in turn mount to
        drawbars and/or trailer frames.
3.      The base plates and drawbars are known to have limitations. For example, they
        have welded chain link attachment points for safety chains and other accessory
        mounts. The chain link is welded to the drawbar or other frame element; an
        arrangement which is variable in its strength, depending on the skill of the welder.
        Some base plates are cast; still others are unable to provide sufficient strength or
        consistency of strength for trailing, whether for simple safety catch operations by a
        chain tether, or recovery.
4.      The present inventor seeks to provide a new trailer coupling mount and/or a trailer
        coupling mount which seeks to ameliorate one or more of the above disadvan
        tages.
Definitions
          The word "tether" as used in this specification and claims is to be understood to
          cover straps, webbing, chains, ropes, cables and like hauling elements.
          The word "integrated" or "integral" or other grammatical variations thereof, as
      used in this specification and claims, is to be understood to cover welded connec
     tions, cast connections, or any suitable connection where at least some of the mate
      rial of the base element is common with at least some of the material of the tether
     attachment point. In some embodiments subtstantially the entire tether attachment
      point is folded from a base plate, but in some embodiments there may be some tab
     wholly cut from a base plate or a similar material and attached or re-attached by

                                              3
    welding or other suitable fastening process. There are other integration methods
    such as laying up of various laminates and forming on a last or some appropriate
    form.
Summary
5.     Broadly, the present technology provides a trailer coupling mount which includes
      one or more integrated tether attachment points. In some embodiments the inte
      grated tether attachment point is disposed on a tab which is integral with and ex
      tends from the coupling mount.
6.    In accordance with a first aspect of the present technology there is provided a
      trailer coupling mount which includes
               a base for mounting a trailer coupling and
               one or more tether attachments integral with the base.
7.    In accordance with another aspect of the present technology there is provided a
      trailer coupling mount which includes
               a base element for mounting a trailer coupling and
               one or more tether attachments integral with and/or formed from, the sub
      strate material of the base element and extending therefrom.
8.    In one embodiment the base is a plate so as to provide a flat mounting for the trail
      er coupling.
9.    In one embodiment the base plate is constructed from steel. In one embodiment
      the steel may be alloyed with suitable elements or compounds such as carbon,
      chromium, nickel, manganese, boron, molybdenum, vanadium, silicon and like el
      ements. In one embodiment the base plate may be aluminium. In one embodiment
      the base plate may be some other suitable metal.
10.   In one embodiment the base plate is 8mm thick. In other embodiments the base
      plate is 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 or 20mm or any suit
      able thickness of steel.
11.   In one embodiment there may be provided a plurality of layers of base plates to
      provide a laminate base plate. In one embodiment there may be provided a sand
      wich construction of base plate, and the layers may be steel, aluminium, carbon
      fibre, GRP, kevlar, or other suitable layers. There may be provided a plurality of
      layers of kevlar sandwiched between layers of steel, or there may be other combi
      nations to suit various strength and durability requirements.
12.   In one embodiment the base includes apertures to fasten the trailer coupling
      therethrough. In one embodiment the apertures are spaced apart from one another

                                            4
    so as to provide increased strength for the fastening. In one embodiment the aper
    tures are arranged at the vertices of a rectangle. In one embodiment the apertures
    are arranged on a pitch circle or other suitable arrangement to suit a coupling fas
    tening arrangement.
13. In one embodiment the base is a trapezoidal shape in plan view, so as to match or
    at least substantially or generally support a trailer drawbar arrangement where the
    trailer has frame elements axially loaded, but radially extending or at least extend
    ing outwardly from the trailer hitch to the trailer wheels. In one embodiment the
    trapezoidal shape of the base facilitates welding or other fastening to the radially
    extending or outwardly-extending trailer frame elements.
14. In one embodiment the one or more tether attachments are disposed in the same
    plane as the base plate.
15. In one embodiment the one or more tether attachments are disposed in a plane
    that is angled or spaced from the base plate, so as to facilitate clear rotation for the
    trailer about the coupling.
16. In one embodiment the one or more tether attachments are spaced from an under
    side of the base plate to facilitate clear rotation of the trailer about the coupling.
17. In one embodiment the one or more tether attachments are disposed on one or
    more tabs which extend from the base plate. In one embodiment the one or more
    tabs extend from one or more sides of the base plate.
18. In one embodiment the one or more tabs extend from a side of the base plate at
    an angle to a centreline of the base plate so as to facilitate a tether extending to
    wards a trailer hitch tether point on a centreline of a towing vehicle. This reduces
    kinks in the tether and reduces bends and reduces increased stresses in the tether
    as a result of bends or kinks. The tab itself is to be understood to be stronger if
    loaded along the longitudinal axis, or at the angle shown, or generally along the
    length of the tab.
19. The tabs may be disposed at angles to the longitudinal axis so as to provide a plu
    rality of angles, either individually or in combination, to facilitate good strength for
    recovery or safety chain arrest function. That is, it is to be understood that during
    recovery or during sever of the trailer coupling, the angle of pull of the tether or
    chain can vary. Embodiments of the present invention facilitate retention of as
    much strength as possible during variable loading at variable angles, by promoting
    flow of stress and strain along the fibres and grains of the base plate material, from
    the tabs or tether attachment points, since the base plate is integrated therewith.

                                          5
20. The tabs may be disposed along the side, having a longitudinal edge parallel with
    the longitudinal axis of the base plate. The tabs may also be disposed at suitable
    angles.
21. In one embodiment the one or more tabs are disposed at an angle to the centreline
    of the base plate to reduce bends or kinks in the tether and to encourage the teth
    er to extend at an angle towards the centreline of the towed vehicle.
22. In one embodiment the tab is square in shape. In one embodiment the one or
    more tabs are oval, round, circular, trapezoidal, or any other suitable shape.
23. In one embodiment the tab includes a receiver for receiving an end or connecting
    portion of a tether assembly.
24. In one embodiment the one or more tabs are the same thickness as the base
    plate. In one embodiment the one or more tabs are thinner than the base plate.
25. In one embodiment the outline of at least a portion of one or more tabs is cut from
    the base plate.
26. In one embodiment the tabs are folded out of the base plate plane, until the tab is
    about perpendicular to the base plate. Any suitable angle, however, is contemplat
    ed to be within the scope of the presently-disclosed technology: 30, 35, 40, 45, 50,
    55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100, 105, 110, 115, 120,125,130,135,140,
    145, 150, 160, 165, 170 or other suitable angle.
27. In one embodiment, the cut and folded tabs provide an integral tether attachment,
    or in other words, a tether attachment that is integral with the base plate or base
    element. In other words, the tether attachment is formed from the same substrate
    material from which the base element is formed. One objective of at least one em
    bodiment is to reduce stress concentrations and variability of strength of known
    welded tether connections.
28. The cut and folded tab in one embodiment is disposed remotely from the sides of
    the base plate. There may be more than one tab disposed remotely from the pe
    riphery or sides of the base plate.
29. The one or more tether attachment points may be integral tabs extending from one
    or more sides of a base element.
30. The base element may be a base plate and the tabs may be folded downwardly
    from sides of the base plate at an angle so as to depend downwardly therefrom.
31. The tabs may be welded to any suitable place on a surface of the base plate.
32. In one embodiment there may be provided gussets to support the tether attach
    ment point or tab. The gussets may be cut and folded from the base element, or
    welded in place, or fastened behind the tab in some other suitable way.

                                              6
33.    In one embodiment the tab receiver is configured to receive a shackle. In one em
       bodiment the shackle is in the form of a hammer lock or D shackle, or any other
       kind of shackle, which can be opened by unscrewing or other removal of locking
       pin.
34.    In one embodiment the receiver on the tab is in the form of an aperture. In one
       embodiment the aperture is in the form of a through aperture which extends
       through the tab.
35.    In one embodiment the tab aperture is disposed in the centre of the tab, such that
       it is closed around its perimeter. Open apertures or recesses are also contemplat
       ed as being within the scope of the presently-disclosed technology, however, such
       that there may be a neck, or throat or some other opening in the tab so as to facili
       tate attachment to a non-opening fastener such as a shackle; where, for example,
       there is an eye in the end of a tether, rope or chain.
36.    Advantageously, however, one embodiment does include a closed aperture so that
       the aperture is strong and can provide a standards-rated retrieval force.
37.    In this specification, where a document, act or item of knowledge is referred to or
       discussed, this reference or discussion is not an admission that the document, act
       or item of knowledge or any combination thereof was at the priority date:
                 (a) part of common general knowledge; or
                 (b) known to be relevant to an attempt to solve any problem with which this
       specification is concerned.
38.    It is to be noted that, throughout the description and claims of this specification, the
       word 'comprise' and variations of the word, such as 'comprising' and 'comprises', is
       not intended to exclude other variants or additional components, integers or steps.
39.    In order that the present technology may be more clearly understood, preferred
       embodiments will be described with reference to the following drawings and exam
       ples
Brief Description of the drawings
40.    In order to enable a clearer understanding, a preferred embodiment of the technol
       ogy will now be further explained and illustrated by reference to the accompanying
       drawings, in which:
41.    Figure 1 is a plan view of a trailer coupling mount in accordance with an embodi
       ment of the present invention;
42.     Figure 2 is a plan view from underneath of the trailer coupling mount in Figure 1;
43.     Figure 3 is a right side elevation view of the trailer coupling mount of Figure 1;

                                              7
44.     Figure 4 is a left side elevation view of the trailer coupling mount of Figure 1; and
45.     Figure 5 is a front elevation view of the trailer coupling mount of Figure 1.
Detailed description of an example embodiment
46.    Referring to the drawings there is shown a trailer coupling mount generally indicat
       ed at 10 which includes a base element 15 and two integrated tether attachment
       points 20 integral therewith. The integral tether attachment points 21 and 22 are
       disposed on tabs 23, 24 which are integral with and extend from, the base element
       15.
47.    The trailer coupling mount 10 includes a base element 15 for mounting a trailer
       coupling and one or more tether attachment points 20 integral with the base ele
       ment 15.
48.    The base element 15 is a base plate 17 so as to provide a flat mounting for the
       trailer coupling (not shown).
49.    The base plate 17 is constructed from steel and the base plate is 8mm thick.
50.    The base plate 17 also includes apertures 25 to fasten the trailer coupling (not
       shown) therethrough. The apertures 25 are spaced apart from one another so as
       to provide increased strength for the fastening, and in the embodiment shown in
       the Figures, are arranged at the vertices of a rectangle.
51.    The base plate 17 is a trapezoidal shape in plan view, so as to match or at least
       substantially or generally support a trailer drawbar arrangement where the trailer
       has frame elements axially loaded, but radially extending or at least extending
       outwardly from the trailer hitch to the trailer wheels. The trapezoidal shape of the
       base plate 17 facilitates welding or other fastening to the radially-extending or out
       wardly-extending trailer frame elements (not shown).
52.    The tether attachment points 21, 22 are disposed in a plane that is angled or
       spaced from the base plate, so as to facilitate clear rotation for the trailer about the
       coupling. The tether attachment points 21, 22 provide a connection point, for a
       tether or chain, that is spaced from an underside of the base plate 17 to facilitate
       clear rotation of the trailer (not shown) about the coupling (not shown).
53.    The tether attachment points 21, 22 are disposed on one or more tabs 23, 24
       which extend from the base plate 17. The tabs 23, 24 extend from one or more
       side edges 40, 41 of the base plate 17. The tabs 23, 24 extend from a side edge of
       the base plate 17, at the front edge 42 (to reduce chain or tether length required),
       at an angle to a centreline of the base plate 17 so as to facilitate a tether (not
       shown) extending towards a trailer hitch tether point (not shown) on a centreline of

                                            8
    a towing vehicle (not shown). This reduces kinks in the tether (not shown) and re
    duces bends and reduces increased stresses in the tether as a result of bends or
    kinks.
54. The one or more tabs 23, 24 are disposed at an angle to the centreline of the base
    plate 17 to reduce bends or kinks in the tether and to encourage the tether to ex
    tend at an angle towards the centreline of the towed vehicle.
55. The tabs 23, 24 are square in shape, for ease of manufacture and reduction in
     -lost, and for additional strength. There is an annular margin 26 which provides ad
    ditional strength for recovery if the trailer becomes stuck in difficult terrain.
56. The tab 23, 24 includes a receiver 28 for receiving an end or connecting portion of
    a tether assembly. The tab receiver 28 is configured to receive a shackle (not
    shown), and preferably, a hammer lock shackle but any suitable kind of shackle or
    fastener is contemplated for use, including D-shackles and other shackles.
57. The receiver 28 is in the form of an aperture 29. The aperture 29 is in the form of a
    through aperture which extends through the tab 23, 24.
58. The tab aperture 29 is disposed in the centre of the tab 23, 24, such that it is
    closed around its perimeter.
59. The one or more tabs 23, 24 are the same thickness as the base plate and, to
    form, the one embodiment shown of tab 23, 24, is cut from the base plate 17 and
    folded out of the base plate plane, until the tab 23, 24 is about perpendicular to the
    base plate 17.
60. In use, a fitter fits the base plate on the trailer frame elements (not shown) and
    welds the plate 17 to the trailer frame along the side edges 40, 41. The trailer cou
    pling is fastened into apertures 25. Then, hammer lock shackles are fitted into
    apertures 28 on the tabs 23, 24. Chains are fitted to the shackles at the trailer end
    and the chains are fitted then, to the trailer hitch at the towing vehicle end, via
    shackles or other fasteners, if necessary.
61. The extra strength provided by the integral tabs allows the trailer to be recovered
    by snatch straps, or chains or other recovery and retrieval elements, by the tabs
    and not the coupling, if the trailer becomes stuck in difficult terrain.
62. Modifications and improvements to the invention will be readily apparent to those
    skilled in the art. Such modifications and improvements are intended to be within
    the scope of this invention.

                                              9
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.    A trailer coupling mount including
               a base element for mounting a trailer coupling and
               one or more tether attachment points integral with the base element.
2.    The trailer coupling mount in accordance with claim 1 wherein the base element is a
      trapezoidal shape in plan view such that its sides substantially follow the path of ta
      pering trailer elements.
3.    The trailer coupling mount in accordance with claim 1 or 2 wherein the one or more
      tether attachment points are integral tabs extending from one or more sides or sur
      face of a base element at any suitable point.
4.    The trailer coupling mount in accordance with claim 3 wherein the base element is a
      base plate and the tabs are folded downwardly from sides of the base plate at an an
      gle so as to depend downwardly therefrom.
5.    The trailer coupling mount in accordance with any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the
      tether attachment point includes a receiver for receiving an end of a tether or a fas
      tening, the receiver including a through aperture in the tether attachment point.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
