   ABSTRACT
   The present invention relates to a gaming system and to a
   method of gaming that includes a wheel game.
 5 A base game, implemented as a reel game,    is arranged to
   generate as one of its outcomes a feature game in the form
   of a wheel game.     The wheel game has a plurality of
   outcome indicating parts for indicating outcomes of the
   wheel game.     A plurality of outcomes of the wheel game
10 each resulting in play of a different further feature
   game.     This provides a further level of gaming, in order
   to maintain player interest.
   8280842_1

                                    - 1
                    GAMING SYSTEM AND A METHOD OF GAMING
   Field of the Invention
             The present invention relates to a gaming system and
 5 to a method of gaming, and, particularly, but not
   exclusively, to a method and system of gaming that
   includes a wheel game.
   Related Application
10           This application is a divisional application of
   Australian Application No. <removed-apn>, which, in turn, is
   a divisional of 2014250732, which, in turn, is a
   divisional of 2012201691, which is also a divisional of
   2009200479, the disclosure of each of which is
15 incorporated herein by reference. Most of the disclosure
   of these applications is also included herein, however,
   reference may be made to the specifications of application
   nos. <removed-apn>,       2014250732, 2012201691 and 2009200479 as
   filed to gain further understanding of the invention
20 claimed herein.
   Background of the Invention
             Games comprising a wheel or representation of a wheel
   and an indicator which moves relative to the wheel are
25 known.       These "wheel games" may be implemented as
   mechanical wheels, electro-mechanical wheels or generated
   by electronic displays such as video displays.        Each wheel
   usually comprises a number of segments, each segment
   representing a particular game outcome.
30           Gaming systems are known which utilise wheel games as
   secondary or "feature" games in addition to a "base" game
   played by the gaming system.
             It is also known to provide a gaming system which
   comprises a game controller which is arranged to randomly
35 display several symbols       from a pre-determined set of
   symbols and to determine a game outcome such as a game win
   based on the displayed symbols.        Such gaming systems may
   8280842_1

                                   - 2
   commonly be implemented as a stepper machine provided with
   reels with each reel carrying several symbols of the set,
   or a video machine where the selected symbols are
   displayed as virtual reels on a graphical display device.
 5 Outcomes can occur based on symbols appearing on one or
   more horizontal lines, diagonal lines, or in any other
   pre-determined way.
             It is known in gaming systems to provide reel games
   as a base game and a wheel game as a feature game
10 generated as an outcome of the base reel game e.g. a
   particular symbol or symbol selection occurring in the
   base game may result in generation of a feature game
   played as a wheel game.
             A problem with wheel games is that gaming regulations
15 for some markets, including most Australian markets,
   require that the odds for wheel games must reflect the
   odds that a person would expect from viewing the wheel.
   For example, a wheel with six segments would generally be
   expected to carry odds of 6:1       for selection of a
20 particular segment.       This makes it more difficult to offer
   large prizes on a wheel because the larger the prize, the
   more effect it will have on the overall return to the
   player of the game.       To support a large prize, either the
   chances of the player actually activating the wheel
25 feature have to be very low or the amount of the average
   wager of the player needs to be high.
             An advantage of wheel games is that it has been found
   that players find them particularly entertaining and are
   attracted to playing games which involve wheel games.
30 While current wheel games provide users with enjoyment,
   the need exists for alternative gaming systems in order to
   maintain and increase player enjoyment.
   Summary of the Invention
35           In accordance with a first aspect, the present
   invention provides a gaming system, comprising a game
   controller arranged to control operation of a base game,
   8280842_1

                                   - 3
   from which is triggered a first game having a plurality of
   available first game outcomes, and a display arranged to
   display a representation of play of the first game, the
   representation comprising a first      selector having a
 5 plurality of outcome indicating parts, at least one blank
   indicating part and an indicator, the game controller
   being arranged to determine a first game outcome       for the
   first game from the plurality of available game outcomes,
   and to control the selector to indicate the outcome
10 indicating part or the blank indicating part associated
   with the first game outcome;      and wherein at least one of
   the available first game outcomes is a further feature
   game, the game controller being arranged to control play
   of the further feature game to determine a prize to be
15 awarded, the further feature game being different to the
   base game and comprising a plurality of second selectors
   that are initiated in sequence, wherein at least one
   outcome of a second selector is a sequence continued
   outcome, and wherein the next in sequence of the second
20 selectors is only initiated when said sequence continue
   outcome occurs;      and wherein at least one other of the
   available first game outcomes is a game ending outcome in
   which the selector indicates the at least one blank
   indicating part, the gaming controller being further
25 arranged to end the first game in response to the
   indication of at least one blank indicating part.
             An advantage of at least an embodiment of the
   invention is that the provision of a further feature game,
   in addition to the first game, provides a further level of
30 interest to entertain the player.       Providing different
   levels in a gaming system advantageously maintains player
   interest and entertainment.       A further advantage of at
   least an embodiment of the invention is that the further
   feature game may enable higher prizes to be awarded than
35 available if      just the first game were played on its own,
   as two levels of selection must be achieved       (the further
   feature game must be selected as an outcome of the first
   8280842_1

                                   - 4
   game and then the further feature game needs to be played
   to determine a prize to be awarded).
             In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   control operation of the further feature game to play a
 5 first further feature game, wherein the game controller is
   arranged to control a further selector having a plurality
   of available further selector outcomes, at least one of
   the available further selector outcomes determining a
   prize to be awarded.
10           In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   control the display to display a representation of the
   further selector, the representation comprising the
   further selector having a plurality of outcome indicating
   parts indicating the available further selector outcomes.
15           In an embodiment, the representation of the further
   selector is of a die wherein the plurality of outcome
   indicating parts are represented by faces of the die.
             In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   control the display to represent the die to show a face
20 which represents the further selector outcome determined
   by the game controller.       In an embodiment, the game
   controller is arranged to control the display to represent
   the die spinning and settling on the face which represents
   the further selector outcome.
25           In an embodiment, to control play of the first
   further feature game, the game controller is arranged to
   control operation of a sequence of further selectors, each
   further selector having a plurality of available outcomes.
   At least one outcome of each further selector is a
30 "Sequence Continue" outcome which determines whether a
   subsequent further selector in the sequence is operated.
   If a Sequence Continue outcome is not achieved, then the
   next further selector in the sequence of further selectors
   is not played and the sequence ends.       In an embodiment, a
35 prize to be awarded depends upon a number of selectors in
   the sequence that are played.       In an embodiment, the more
   selectors that are played, the greater the prize.
   8280842_1

                                   - 5
             In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   control the display to display a representation of each of
   the further selectors in the sequence of further
   selectors.
 5           In an embodiment, the representation comprises each
   of the further selectors having a plurality of outcome
   indicating parts indicating the available further selector
   outcomes.
             In an embodiment, if a further selector in the
10 sequence is not played, it is not displayed.
             In an embodiment, the representation of each further
   selector in the sequence comprises a display of a die, the
   outcome indicating parts of each further selector being
   represented by faces of the respective die representing
15 the further selector.
             In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
   control the display to represent each die in the sequence
   to show a face which represents the further selector
   outcome determined by the game controller for each further
20 selector in the sequence.       In an embodiment, the game
   controller is arranged to control the display to represent
   each die in the sequence as spinning and settling to show
   the face representing the further selector outcome.
             In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
25 determine the value of a prize to be awarded in dependence
   on an amount bet by a player.       In the embodiment which
   comprises the further selector or      sequence of further
   selectors, the game controller is arranged to vary the
   available further selector outcomes in dependence on
30 amount bet.
             In an embodiment, the first game is a wheel game and
   each of the outcome indicating parts is represented as a
   segment of a wheel.
             In an embodiment, the first game may be generated as
35 a feature game in response to an outcome of a base game.
   The base game, may, for example, be a reel game, where the
   game controller is arranged to randomly select and display
   8280842_1

                                   - 6
   several symbols      from a predetermined set of  symbols and to
   determine a game outcome such as a game win based on the
   selected symbols.       In this embodiment, at least one game
   outcome is a trigger for a feature game which results in
 5 the first game being played.
             In an embodiment the further feature game is a second
   further feature game in which the game controller is
   arranged to control play of a reel game and select one or
   more symbols from the plurality of available symbols.        In
10 an embodiment there may be a plurality of reels and one or
   more of the plurality of reels may be held and the other
   reels      spun.  An outcome is determined at the end of the
   reel      spin, which may be based on any combination of
   available symbols.       In one embodiment, the reel or reels
15 may be spun a plurality of times during the second further
   feature game.
             In an embodiment where the first game is generated as
   a result of an outcome of a base game which is a reel
   game, during play of the second further feature game, the
20 reel or reels of the base game which resulted in
   generation of the first game       (e.g. a combination of
   symbols on the reels which resulted in the game controller
   generating the feature game) are held and the other reel
   or reels is spun to implement the second further feature
25 game.
             In an embodiment, the further feature game is a third
   further feature game,      in which the game controller is
   arranged to control play by controlling selection of a
   plurality of symbols      from a set of symbols.   The game
30 controller is arranged to determine an outcome of the
   third further feature game based on the selected symbols.
             In an embodiment, the third further feature game is
   represented on the display as a reel game, the selected
   symbols being represented as appearing on virtual reels,
35 or appearing on physical reels.
             In an embodiment, the third further feature game may
   comprise a different      reel game with different  symbols than
   8280842_1

   a base game.       In an alternative embodiment, the third
   further feature game may be played using the same reels,
   symbols and symbol combinations as the base game.
             In an embodiment, the game controller is arranged to
 5 select a multiplier for the third further feature game.         A
   prize awarded as an outcome of the selected symbols of the
   third further feature game, is multiplied by the
   multiplier.       In an embodiment, the multiplier is selected
   before selection of the symbols for the third further
10 feature game.
             In an embodiment, the available game outcomes of the
   first game comprise at least three available game
   outcomes, at least one of which is the first further
   feature game, at least one of which is the second further
15 feature game and at least one of which is the third
   further feature game.
             In accordance with a second aspect, the present
   invention provides a method of gaming using a game
   controller and a display, comprising the steps of: playing
20 via the controller a base game;      triggering from the base
   game a first game having a plurality of available game
   outcomes;      displaying on the display a representation of
   play of the first game, the representation of play of the
   first game comprising a first selector having a plurality
25 of first outcome indicating parts, at least one blank
   indicating part and an indicator;      determining via the game
   controller a first game outcome for the first game from
   the plurality of available game outcomes;       controlling via
   the game controller the selector to indicate the outcome
30 indicating part or the blank indicating part associated
   with the first game outcome;      and wherein at least one of
   the available first game outcomes being a further feature
   game, and playing via the game controller the further
   feature game to determine a prize to be awarded, the
35 further feature game comprising a plurality of second
   selectors;      initiating the plurality of  second selectors in
   sequence;      and wherein at least one outcome of the
   8280842_1

                                   - 8
   plurality of second selectors is a sequence continue
   outcome;      initiating the next in sequence of the second
   selectors only when said sequence outcome occurs;      and
   wherein at least one other of the available first game
 5 outcomes is a game ending outcome in which the indicator
   indicates the at least one blank indicating part; and
   ending the first game via the controller in response to
   the game ending outcome.
             In accordance with a third aspect, the present
10 invention provides a computer program providing
   instructions for controlling a computer to implement a
   gaming system in accordance with the first aspect of the
   invention.
             In accordance with a fourth aspect, the present
15 invention provides a computer readable medium providing a
   computer program in accordance with the third aspect of
   the invention.
             In accordance with a fifth aspect, the present
   invention provides a data signal comprising the computer
20 program of the fourth aspect of the invention.
             In accordance with a sixth aspect, the present
   invention provides a game controller for a gaming system,
   the game controller being arranged to control operation of
   a first game having a plurality of available game
25 outcomes, and control operation of a display to display a
   representation of play of the first game, the
   representation comprising a selector having a plurality of
   outcome indicating parts and an indicator, the game
   controller being arranged to determine a first game
30 outcome for the first game from the plurality of available
   game outcomes, and control the indicator to indicate the
   outcome indicating part associated with the first game
   outcome, at least one of the available first game outcomes
   being a further feature game, the game controller being
35 arranged to control play of the further feature game to
   determine a prize to be awarded.
             In accordance with a seventh aspect, the present
   8280842_1

                                     - 9
   invention provides computer program comprising
   instructions for controlling a computer to implement a
   game controller in accordance with the sixth aspect of the
   invention.
 5           In accordance with an eight aspect, the present
   invention provides a computer readable medium, providing a
   computer program in accordance with the seventh aspect of
   the invention.
             In accordance with a ninth aspect, the present
10 invention provides a data signal, providing a computer
   program in accordance with the seventh aspect of the
   invention.
             In one embodiment of this invention, the gaming
   system and method provide multiple levels of gaming.         In
15 one embodiment, there are three levels of gaming:
   a first level        (e.g. a base game which may be a reel game),
   which may lead to a second level of gaming as an outcome
    (e.g. a wheel game) which may lead to a third level of
   gaming       (e.g. one of the feature games discussed above).
20 Further, the third level of gaming may comprise a
   plurality of different third level games which may be
   selected by the second game outcome. Such multiple level
   gaming has the advantage of maintaining player interest
   and entertainment.
25
   Brief Description of the Drawings
             Features and advantages of the present invention will
   become apparent from the following description of
   embodiments thereof, by way of example only, with
30 reference to the accompanying drawings, in which;
             Figure 1 is a schematic block diagram of core
   components of a gaming system in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention;
             Figure 2 is diagrammatic representation of a gaming
35 system in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention with the gaming system implemented in the form
   of a stand along gaming machine;
   8280842_1

                                   - 10
             Figure 3 is a schematic block diagram of operative
   components of the gaming machine shown in Figure 2;
             Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram of components
   of a memory of the gaming machine shown in Figure 2;
 5           Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a gaming system in
   accordance with an alternative embodiment of the present
   invention with the gaming system implemented over a
   network;
             Figure 6 is a schematic diagram of functional
10 components of a gaming system in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention;
             Figures 7 and 8 are representations of example
   displays generated by a gaming system in accordance with
   an embodiment of the present invention;        and
15           Figures 9 to 12 are flow diagrams illustrating
   operation of a gaming system in accordance with an
   embodiment of the present invention,
             and Figure 13 is a representation of an example
   display generated by a gaming system in accordance with an
20 embodiment of the present invention.
   Detail Description of Embodiments
             Referring to the drawings, there is illustrated an
   example embodiment of a gaming system which is arranged to
25 implement a game.       The gaming system includes a game
   controller and a display arranged to display
   representations of the game.        The representations comprise
   a selector having a plurality of outcome indicating parts
   and an indicator, and in this example embodiment the
30 representations comprising a wheel game.         An example
   embodiment of the wheel game is illustrated in Figure        7.
   The wheel representation 400 includes a plurality of
   outcome indicating parts 401.        In this embodiment, a
   plurality of the outcome indicating parts indicate as an
35 outcome a further feature game        (see for example, outcome
   indicating parts 402,      403 and 404).    The game controller
   is arranged to control play of the further feature game to
   8280842_1

                                   - 11
   determine a prize to be awarded to a player.        This
   embodiment has the advantage of providing further levels
   of play for entertainment of a player and to maintain
   player interest.       Further, higher prizes may be awarded
 5 than may normally be awarded by a wheel game having a
   finite number of outcome indicating parts.
             The gaming system can take a number of different
   forms. In a first form, a stand alone gaming machine is
   provided wherein all or most components required for
10 implementing the game are present in a player operable
   gaming machine.
             In a second form, a distributed architecture is
   provided wherein some of the components required for
   implementing the game are present in a player operable
15 gaming machine and some of the components required for
   implementing the game are located remotely relative to the
   gaming machine.       For example, a "thick client"
   architecture may be used wherein part of the game is
   executed on a player operable gaming machine and part of
20 the game is executed remotely, such as by a gaming server;
   or a "thin client" architecture may be used wherein most
   of the game is executed remotely such as by a gaming
   server and a player operable gaming machine is used only
   to display audible and/or visible gaming information to
25 the player and receive gaming inputs from the player.
             However, it will be understood that other
   arrangements are envisaged.        For example, an architecture
   may be provided wherein a gaming machine is networked to a
   gaming server and the respective functions of the gaming
30 machine and the gaming server are       selectively modifiable.
   For example, the gaming system may operate in stand alone
   gaming machine mode, "thick client" mode or       "thin client"
   mode depending on the game being played, operating
   conditions,      and so on. Other variations will be apparent
35 to persons skilled in the art.
             Irrespective of the form, the gaming system comprises
   several core components. At the broadest level, the core
   8280842_1

                                    - 12
   components are a player interface        50 and a game controller
   60 as illustrated in Figure 1. The player interface is
   arranged to enable manual interaction between a player and
   the gaming system and for this purpose includes the
 5 input/output components required for the player to enter
   instructions and play the game.
             Components of the player interface may vary from
   embodiment to embodiment but will typically include a
   credit mechanism 52 to enable a player to input credits
10 and receive payouts, one or more displays 54,        a game play
   mechanism 56 that enables a player to input game play
   instructions       (e.g. to place bets),  and one or more
   speakers 58.
             The game controller 60 is in data communication with
15 the player interface and typically includes a processor 62
   that processes the game play instructions in accordance
   with game play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the
   display. Typically, the game play instructions are stored
   as program code in a memory 64 but can also be hardwired.
20 Herein the term "processor" is used to refer generically
   to any device that can process game play instructions in
   accordance with game play rules and may include:        a
   microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable        logic device
   or other computational device, a general purpose computer
25  (e.g. a PC) or a server.
             A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming
   machine 10      is illustrated in Figure 2. The gaming machine
   10 includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which are
   displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played
30 by a player.        A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10
   houses a bank of buttons 22        for enabling a player to
   interact with the gaming machine, in particular during
   game play.       The mid-trim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 which in this example includes a coin input
35 chute 24A and a bill collector 24B.         Other credit input
   mechanisms may also be employed, for example, a card
   reader for reading a smart card, debit card or credit
   8280842_1

                                   -   13
   card.       A player marketing module    (not shown) having a
   reading device may also be provided for the purpose of
   reading a player tracking device,         for example as part of a
   loyalty program.       The player tracking device may be in the
 5 form of a card, flash drive or any other portable storage
   medium capable of being read by the reading device.
             A top box 26 may carry artwork 28,    including for
   example pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.           Further
10 artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
   panel 29 of the console 12.         A  coin tray 30 is mounted
   beneath the front panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts
   from the gaming machine 10.
             The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a
15 video display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen
   device.       Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid
   crystal display, plasma screen, any other suitable video
   display unit, or the visible portion of an
   electromechanical device.         The top box 26 may also include
20 a display, for example a video display unit, which may be
   of the same type as the display 14,         or of a different
   type.
             Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative
   components of a typical gaming machine which may be the
25 same as or different to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
             The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101
   having a processor 102.       Instructions and data to control
   operation of the processor 102 are         stored in a memory 103,
   which is in data communication with the processor 102.
30 Typically, the gaming machine 100 will include both
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each
   type of memory, with such memories being collectively
   represented by the memory 103.
             The gaming machine has hardware meters 104     for
35 purposes including ensuring regulatory compliance and
   monitoring player credit, an input/output          (I/O) interface
   105 for communicating with peripheral devices of the
   8280842_1

                                   -   14
   gaming machine 100.       The input/output interface 105 and/or
   the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with
   their own memory for storing associated instructions and
   data for use with the input/output interface or the
 5 peripheral devices.       A random number generator module 113
   generates random numbers      for use by the processor 102.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the
   reference to random numbers includes pseudo-random
   numbers.
10           In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface
   120 includes peripheral devices that communicate with the
   game controller 101 comprise one or more displays         106, a
   touch screen and/or buttons 107,         a card and/or ticket
   reader 108,      a printer 109,   a bill acceptor and/or coin
15 input mechanism 110 and a coin output mechanism 111.
   Additional hardware may be included as part of the gaming
   machine 100,      or hardware may be omitted as required for
   the specific implementation.
             In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
20 communications interface,       for example a network card 112.
   The network card may, for example,         send status
   information, accounting information or other information
   to a central controller, server or database and receive
   data or commands from the central controller, server or
25 database.
             Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components
   of an exemplary memory 103.          The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.          The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
30 execution by the processor 102 and related data.          The
   EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.          The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game programs, the
   integrity of which may be verified and/or authenticated by
35 the processor 102 using protected code         from the EPROM 103B
   or elsewhere.
             It is also possible for the operative components of
   8280842_1

                                   - 15
   the gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
             Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with
 5 an alternative embodiment.        The gaming system 200 includes
   a network 201,      which for example may be an Ethernet
   network.       Gaming machines 202,  shown arranged in three
   banks 203 of two gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are
   connected to the network 201.        The gaming machines 202
10 provide a player operable interface and may be the same as
   the gaming machines 10,100 shown in Figures 2 and 3, or
   may have simplified functionality depending on the
   requirements for implementing game play.        While banks 203
   of two gaming machines are illustrated in Figure       5, banks
15 of one, three or more gaming machines are also envisaged.
             One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the
   network 201.       For example, the displays 204 may be
   associated with one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.
   The displays 204 may be used to display representations
20 associated with game play on the gaming machines 202,
   and/or used to display other representations, for example
   promotional or informational material.
             In a thick client embodiment, game server 205
   implements part of the game played by a player using a
25 gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202 implements
   part of the game. With this embodiment, as both the game
   server and the gaming device implement part of the game,
   they collectively provide a game controller. A database
   management server 206 may manage storage of game programs
30 and associated data for downloading or access by the
   gaming devices 202 in a database 206A. Typically, if the
   gaming system enables players to participate in a Jackpot
   game, a Jackpot server 207 will be provided to perform
   accounting functions for the Jackpot game.        A loyalty
35 program server 212 may also be provided.
             In a thin client embodiment, game server 205
   implements most or all of the game played by a player
   8280842_1

                                   - 16
   using a gaming machine 202 and the gaming machine 202
   essentially provides only the player interface.        With this
   embodiment, the game server 205 provides the game
   controller. The gaming machine will receive player
 5 instructions, pass these to the game server which will
   process them and return game play outcomes to the gaming
   machine for display.       In a thin client embodiment, the
   gaming machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs
   running software that provides a player interface operable
10 using standard computer input and output components.
             Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200,       including for
   example a gaming floor management       server 208, and a
   licensing server 209 to monitor the use of licenses
15 relating to particular games.        An administrator terminal
   210 is provided to allow an administrator to run the
   network 201 and the devices connected to the network.
             The gaming network 200 may communicate with other
   gaming systems, other local networks, for example a
20 corporate network, and/or a wide area network such as the
   Internet, for example through a firewall 211.
             Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
   accordance with known techniques,       functionality at the
   server side of the network may be distributed over a
25 plurality of different computers.        For example, elements
   may be run as a single "engine" on one       server or a
   separate server may be provided.        For example, the game
   server 205 could run a random generator engine.
   Alternatively, a separate random number generator server
30 could be provided.       Further, persons skilled in the art
   will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
   provided to run different games or a single game server
   may run a plurality of different games as required by the
   terminals.
35           Referring to Figure 6, the functionality of
   embodiments of the present invention may be implemented by
   a game controller having the functional components
   8280842_1

                                      - 17
   illustrated.        In this embodiment, the functional
   components are implemented utilising a processor and
   memory,       (such as processor 102 and memory 103 in Figure 3,
   or processor       62 and memory 64 in Figure 1, for the game
 5 server 205 in Figure 5) and associated programming.             Other
   implementations are envisaged.            For example the functional
   blocks of Figure       6 may be implemented in hardware as
   separate units, or a combination of hardware and software
   as separate units.         Any practical implementation of these
10 functional units may be employed.
             In this embodiment, the game controller 300 is
   arranged to control the gaming system to play a base game
   which comprises selection of a plurality of           symbols from a
   set of symbols.        The base game is implemented as a "reel"
15 game.        The game controller 300 comprises a display
   controller 301 which is arranged to control the display
    (reference numerals       54,  14,  106,  204 of previous figures)
   to emulate a representation of reels bearing symbols.
   Alternatively, the display may comprise a stepper motor
20 and physical reels bearing the symbols.
             The game controller 300 includes a symbol selector
   302 which is arranged to select a plurality of symbols
   from a set of       symbols available in a symbol store 303.        An
   outcome generator 304        is arranged to determine an outcome
25 of the base game.         In this embodiment, the outcome of the
   base game depends on the selected symbols and may include
   a win outcome, loss outcome, a feature outcome, or other
   outcome.        Outcomes may be determined on the basis of
   symbols appearing in one or more horizontal lines,
30 diagonal lines, or any other pre-determined combinations.
             Figure 8 shows a schematic representation of a gaming
   machine display 500 which, in the example shown, has five
   reels       (numbered "1"  to "5").    The display window 501 shows
   three reel positions high when the reels have stopped /
35 the symbols have been selected.            The reel positions are
   designated Bottom        ("B"),  Centre   ("C") and Top  ("T").  This
   is a typical reel-type display for a gaming machine.             It
   8280842_1

                                    - 18
   will be appreciated that in other embodiments the number
   of reel positions may be more or less than in display 500.
   Also the number of reels may be more or less than in the
   display 500.
 5           The reels may be virtual reels, generated as a video
   display from the selected symbols, actual mechanical reels
   carrying the symbols and driven by a stepper motor, or any
   other reel arrangement or emulation.         In the case of
   actual physical reels, the game controller drives a
10 stepper motor to randomly select the symbols appearing in
   the display 500.
             The game outcome is determined by the outcome
   generator 304 based on combinations of        symbols selected
   and appearing in the display 500.        The  symbols may be any
15 symbols.        As will be appreciated, many different types of
   symbols are used in gaming systems.        A  set of symbols may
   include standard symbols and function symbols.         For
   example,       standard symbols may resemble  fruit such as
   apples, pears and bananas with a win outcome being
20 determined when a predetermined number of the same fruit
   appear on a display in the same line, scattered, and so
   on.       The  function associated with a function symbol may be
   a "wild" function wherein display of the function symbol
   is treated during consideration of the game outcome as any
25 of the standard symbols.        Other functions may include
   scatter functions, multiplier functions, repeat win
   functions, jackpot       functions and feature commencement
   functions.
             In the example shown in Figure 8, the symbols are
30 representations of cards, by which a poker-type card game
   may be played.        In this example, a winning poker hand
   appearing on the C line may cause the outcome generator to
   determine that a Win has occurred and that an appropriate
   prize may be awarded.        For example, five of a kind   (e.g. 5
35 jacks      "J".  5 tens "10" etc on the C line may result in a
   win.       A straight or a straight flush or any other poker
   combination on the C line may also result in a win.
   8280842_1

                                     - 19
             In addition to card symbols, the symbols also include
   a Wild "W"       symbol which is a function symbol which, when
   it occurs on the C line may be considered by the outcome
   generator 304 to operate as any symbol which may assist in
 5 a win.        Symbols also include a Jackpot   ("JP")symbol which
   when five JP symbols appear on the C line may result in           a
   jackpot win.        The jackpot may be a progressive   jackpot, a
   linked progressive       jackpot, or any other type of   jackpot.
             The diagram shown in Figure   8 is schematic only and
10 it will be appreciated that embodiments of the invention
   may implement the symbols graphically, with fancy artwork
   or in any other appropriate manner.
             A game outcome may include a win entitlement which
   may result in a prize being awarded to a player.
15           Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that a
   player's win entitlement will vary from game to game and
   may or may not be dependent on player selections.         In most
   spinning reel games, it is typical for the player's
   entitlement to be affected by the amount they wager and
20 selections they make        (i.e. the nature of the wager).  For
   example, a player's win entitlement may be based on how
   many lines they will play in each game -         i.e. a minimum of
   one line up to the maximum number of lines allowed by the
   game       (noting that not all permutations of win lines may be
25 available for selection.         Such win lines are typically
   formed by a combination of displayed symbol positions, one
   from each reel, the symbol positions being located
   relative to one another such that they form a line.
             In many games, the player's win entitlement is not
30 strictly limited to the lines they have selected.          For
   example,       "scatter" pays may be awarded independently of a
   players selection of pay lines and may be an inherent part
   of the win entitlement.
             Persons, skilled in the art, will appreciate that in
35 other embodiments, the player may obtain a win entitlement
   by selecting a number of reels to play. Such games are
   marketed under the trade name "Reel Power" by Aristocrat
   8280842_1

                                   - 20
   Leisure Industries Pty Ltd. The selection of the reel
   means that each symbol of the reel can be substituted for
   a symbol at one or more designated display positions.        In
   other words, all symbol positions of a selected reel can
 5 be used to form symbol combinations with designated,
   displayed symbol positions of other reels.
             In other embodiments a player win entitlement may be
   affected by purchasing access to particular pay tables
   e.g. a first bet amount entitles the player to wins
10 including cherries and a second amount entitles them to
   wins including plums.       The win entitlement is not always
   purchased -      e.g. a series of  free games may be awarded.
             In this embodiment of the present invention, at least
   one of the base game outcomes is a trigger for a feature
15 game.       The trigger may be any combination of symbols,
   including a line of symbols or a scatter.        Any trigger
   condition may be determined to instigate the feature game.
   Multiple trigger conditions may exist.        A trigger
   condition may be based on a measure of time, a particular
20 amount of activity of the machine, based on player
   tracking information or maybe a random event, or any other
   trigger condition.       The trigger condition will be
   determined by the game designer.
             In this embodiment the feature game is a first game
25 represented on the display as a selector having a
   plurality of outcome indicating parts and an indicator.
   In this example it is implemented as a wheel game        (Figure
   7).
             Referring to Figure 7, the display controller 301
30 generates a display comprising a selector 400 having a
   plurality of outcome indicating parts 401 and an indicator
   405.       The outcome indicating parts 401 form segments for a
   wheel, such that the selector 400 is represented as a
   wheel.       The indicator 405 is a stationary arrow and,
35 during play, the display of the outcome indicating parts
   401 is controlled to appear as if the wheel is spinning.
   The revolving of the outcome indicating parts 401 is
   8280842_1

                                    - 21
   controlled by the display controller 301 so that the
   outcome indicating parts 401 come to rest with the outcome
   indicating part 401 selected by the game controller as the
   first game outcome, being adjacent the indicator 405. The
 5 game controller 300 is arranged to determine the game
   outcome in this embodiment by selection of one of the
   segments 401 via a random number generator         (such as
   reference numeral 113 in Figure 3).         The "spin" of the
   wheel 400 is "fair", there being 20 segments 401 of the
10 wheel 400 in this embodiment, each segment having an equal
   chance of being selected by the random number generator
    (i.e. odds     for segment selection of 20:1).
             It will be appreciated that,   in other embodiments,
   the wheel may have less or more segments than the wheel of
15 Figure 7.
             Each segment  401, or outcome indicating part, is
   associated with a first game outcome.         A plurality of the
   game outcomes result in further feature games. In this
   embodiment, there are 14       segments which result in
20 generation of a further feature game to be played by the
   gaming system.        In this example, the other 6 segments are
   blank segments 406.        Blank segments do not result in the
   generation of any further feature game.         No prize is
   awarded to a player and no action is performed.          The
25 feature game       (the first game) ends here and the player may
   then choose to go back and play the base game.
             Of the 14  segments which generate a further feature
   game outcome, three different        further feature games are
   available.
30           The first further feature game, designated "dice
   feature" 402 in this embodiment results in the game
   controller 300, via the display controller 301,         generating
   a further display displaying a representation of a further
   selector.       The  further selector has a plurality of outcome
35 indicating parts indicating the available further selector
   outcomes.       The game controller 300 is arranged to
   determine a further selector outcome and the display is
   8280842_1

                                  -   22
   controlled to represent the further selector outcome.           In
   this example, the further selector is one in a sequence of
   further selectors.     At least one of the available further
   selector outcomes is a "sequence continue" outcome.          If
 5 this outcome is selected by the game controller 300,         then
   the game controller controls play of the next further
   selector in the sequence of further selectors.         If the
    "sequence continue" outcome is not       selected by the game
   controller, then the sequence ends and any prize is
10 calculated and awarded     (the prize depending on the further
   selector outcome).     The more     selectors that are played,
   the greater the prize.      In this example, each selector in
   the sequence is represented on the display as a six
   faced(cubical) die.     Each face of the die contains a
15 single digit from 0 to 9.        The game controller 300
   utilises a random number generator to determine the
   outcome for each further selector in the sequence.         The
   outcome is "fair"    (i.e. probability of     6:1 for each
   selector).     If the result of the spin is a non-zero digit
20 then a prize represented by the digit is awarded
   immediately to the player and the first further feature
   game and the feature game end and the player may return to
   the base game.     If the result of the spin is zero then
   that particular die remains displayed        (as zero) and a
25 second similar die    (the next further selector in the
   sequence) is displayed to the left of the first one and
   spun.     Again, the selection is "fair", and any prize
   resulting from this spin is multiplied by 10,        as indicated
   by a natural reading of the die faces from left to right
30 in accordance with a base 10 numbering system.         Several
   further selectors    (represented as dice in this example)
   may be operated in this way if all previous spins select 0
   the "sequence continue" outcome in this embodiment).          To
   terminate the sequence of further selectors, there is
35 always a further selector with no "sequence continue"
   outcome available.     Where the further selectors are
   represented as die, there is a die at the end of the
   8280842_1

                                                -   23
   sequence with no zero on any faces in order to limit the
   size of the win.
             In this embodiment, the faces of the die are numbers.
   The prize may correspond with that number, e.g. the prize
 5 may be a number of credit units awarded to the player
   corresponding with the number shown by the sequence of
   selectors.          Alternatively, the prize may be a multiple of
   the number or any other variation.                       In an alternative
   embodiment, the die may not show numbers but may show
10 other indicators indicating prizes.                       In an embodiment, the
   die may have a number of faces other than six.                        The
   invention is not limited to a six face die.
             In this example embodiment, the base game played by
   the gaming system is a "Reel Power" type game.                        The player
15 may select one or more reels to play the base game                        (e.g
   the player may place bets on one or more reels).                        In this
   embodiment, the feature game                      (the wheel game)  is triggered
   on any four of a kind picture symbols or Scatter, on the
   bought position appropriate for that symbol                       (i.e.
20 Picl...Pic4... will trigger the feature if any four appear
   anywhere on bought reels, or on the centre line of
   unbought reels;             Scatter will trigger the feature on four
   of a kind anywhere in the window).
             In this embodiment, the faces of each of the die in
25 the sequence of dice is fixed, determined by the number of
   reels bought, in accordance with the following tables.
   Prizes for the die               sequence in this embodiment are
   multiplied by bet per reel only.
30 Dice faces for Dice Feature
                         1 reel bought
     dice 4     dice 3      dice 2     dice 1     dice 0
             3         1           1          1          1
             1         2           2          2          2
             1         3           3          3          3
             1         2           2          2          2
             1         1           0          1          1
             1         0           0          0          0
   8280842_1

                                               -   24
                        2 reel bought
    dice 4     dice 3      dice 2     dice 1     dice 0
            1         0           9          9          9
            1         5           4          8          8
            1         4           3          7          7
            2         3           0          6          0
            2         2           0          0          0
            3         1           0          0          0
                        3 reel bought
    dice 4     dice 3      dice 2     dice 1     dice 0
            1         0           9          9          9
            1         5           4          8          8
            1         4           3          7          7
            2         3           0          6          0
            2         2           0          0          0
            3         1           0          0          0
                        4 reel bought
    dice 4     dice 3      dice 2     dice 1     dice 0
            1         0           9          9          9
            1         5           4          8          8
            1         4           3          7          7
            2         3           0          0          6
            2         2           0          0          0
            3         1           0          0          0
                        5 reel bought
    dice 4     dice 3      dice 2     dice 1     dice 0
            1         0           9          9          9
            1         5           4          8          8
            1         4           3          7          7
            2         3           0          6          6
            2         2           0          0          0
            3         1           0          0          0
            In this embodiment, the further selectors are
  represented as dice.                  It will be appreciated that the
  invention is not limited to the further selectors being
  represented as dice.                  They may be any selector
5 representation, including wheels,                       for example.  The faces
  of each die in the sequence of die are not limited to
  those designated in the above tables.                        This is one example
  8280842_1

                                    - 25
   only and the faces may be varied from this in other
   embodiments.         Figure 13 shows a example display
   representing a plurality of dice as generated in
   accordance with this embodiment.         Three dice are displayed
 5 based on a 2 reel bought bet        (see above table).   Dice 2
   displays a "4",       so dice 3 and 4 are not displayed in this
   example.
              In the above-described embodiment, the first further
   feature game includes a sequence of selectors.          In an
10 alternative embodiment, the first        further feature game may
   include a single selector only e.g. a single die.
              In this embodiment, the wheel display 400 of the
   first game is generated as a virtual display emulating a
   wheel.        For example, it may be displayed on display 54,
15 14,       106 of the previously referenced Figures.    In one
   embodiment, it may be emulated by a top box 26 display of
   the stand alone machine 52 of Figure 2.         Representations
   of the further selectors during play of the first further
   feature game are also emulations displayed by a display,
20 which also may be a top box 26 display, which may be in a
   different position to the wheel display, or which may
   replace the wheel display when it is played, or may be
   displayed in any other way.
              Another available outcome of the first game is a
25 second further feature game.         In this embodiment, the
   second further feature game is designated "Spin for Five,
   N Times".        Referring to Figure 7, reference numeral 403
   designates an outcome indicating part "Spin         for Five, 5
   Times".        In this embodiment, as discussed above, the base
30 game which generates the first game as a feature is a Reel
   Power type game.        The feature game is triggered on any of
   four of a kind picture symbols or Scatter.          In the second
   further feature game, the four of a kind reels that
   triggered the first game as a feature are held and the
35 remaining reel is spun N times.         Following each re-spin
   any resulting winning combination is paid according to the
   score card.        The re-spin is paid at the bought number of
   8280842_1

                                    -  26
   reels and bet per reel.        The   first game cannot retrigger
   during the re-spin.
             In this embodiment "N"   is five.   It need not be five.
   Any number of re-spins may be implemented and in other
 5 embodiments N may be any number.          Further, in this
   embodiment four reels are held and the fifth reel is spun.
   This is for a five reel machine.          In an alternative
   embodiment less than four reels may be held e.g. three or
   two.       In other embodiments where there may be different
10 numbers of reels, different numbers of reels may be held
   and the others spun.
             The third further feature game is designated "N     free
   games"       (see reference numeral 404 in Figure   7, which
   indicated a third further feature game outcome).           When
15 this outcome of the first game is achieved, the game
   controller is arranged to control the gaming system to
   play the "N"       number of free reel games.    In this
   embodiment, based on Reel Power, the designated number of
   free games are played.        In addition, prior to playing the
20 free games, a random multiplier is awarded.          In this
   embodiment the random multiplier may be one, two, five or
   ten.       The random multiplier is selected according to a
   fixed weighting table, which depends on the bet per reel
   in the base game.        The random multiplier is also displayed
25 on the display.        Any win from the free game played is
   multiplied by the displayed multiplier.          Further, the
   first game may be retriggered during any one of the free
   games, which may result in further free games being added
   to those remaining to be played.          The first game is played
30 immediately following the free game that triggered it.
   Only the basic score card prize for the free game is
   multiplied by the multiplier i.e. the multiplier does not
   apply to the spin-for-five or dice feature wins that may
   be triggered by the free game.
35           The weighting table for the random multiplier is as
   follows.
   8280842_1

                                    - 27
   Multiplier weighting table
 5
   Reels:                 1        2         3        4        5
   Mult                            Weights
                 X1        95      223       299      270      344
                 X2       13       100       98       99       113
                 X5       10       110       100      78       81
                 X10      10       412       100      105      109
             Note that the weightings are not limited to the
   weightings given in the above table.          This is one example
   only.       The weightings may be varied from this in other
10 embodiments.
             In this embodiment, the free games are played by the
   same reels as the base game and prizes are paid according
   to the same outcomes as the base game.          The invention is
15 not limited to this.        In other embodiments, a separate
   reel game may be played for the free games, which may have
   different       symbols and different symbol combinations, and
   also different prize outcomes.
             An advantage of the gaming system of at least this
20 embodiment of the invention is that, by providing multiple
   levels of games i.e. the first game,         and then the further
   feature games, many different levels of gaming are
   provided for the player.        Variability of games is
   attractive and maintains interest        for players.   Providing
25 a variety of rewards advantageously maintains the interest
   of the player.
             The game playing process of the embodiment described
   above will now be summarised with reference to Figures          9
   through 12.
30           At step 700  (Figure 9),  the base game is played by a
   8280842_1

                                    -  28
   selection of symbols       from the symbol store 303 by the
   symbol selector 302.        At step 701, an outcome of the base
   game is determined.        Depending on the combination of
   symbols, this may be a "win", in which case a Win Result
 5  (step 702)     is determined for the player.       The player may
   then have the choice to play again.            If the result is a
   "Lose" result, the player again has the choice of whether
   or not to play again.        A further outcome for the base game
   is to trigger the feature, in which case the first game is
10 played and the wheel is spun         (step 703).
             At step 704, the outcome of the first game is
   determined, and if this is a further feature game, then
   the further feature game is played           (step 704).  If it is a
   "blank" then the play returns to the base game and no
15 further feature is performed.
             Figure 10 summarises the process where the further
   feature game is the second further feature game.            A number
   of reels are held at step 800          (in the above embodiment
   this will be four reels).         At step 801 the other reel or
20 reels      is spun and any prize is paid.       At step 802 it is
   determined whether all the free spins of the reels have
   been completed.       If YES, at step 803 the player has the
   choice to return to the base game.            If NO, the reel or
   reels are      spun again.
25           Figure 11 summarizes the game playing process of the
   first further feature game in accordance with this
   embodiment.       At step 900 the further selector is played
   and represented as a spinning die.            At step 901 it is
   determined whether the outcome is a non-zero digit.             If
30 YES, the outcome is paid        (step 902)    and then the system
   returns to the base game,        step 903.
             If the outcome of the first     selector is a zero digit,
   however, then a further selector is played, represented as
   spinning of a further die, step          904.   At step 905 the
35 outcome of the further die is determined.            If it is a non
   zero digit, at step 906 the outcome is paid to the player,
   based on the total from the two dice displayed in
   8280842_1

                                   -  29
   accordance with a base ten numbering system.          If the
   outcome is a further zero digit, then a further die is
   played and outcome determined.         This may continue until
   the last      selector which does not include a zero outcome
 5  (step 907 and step 908).
             The game playing process for the third further
   feature game is summarised in Figure 12.         When the third
   further feature game is generated as an outcome of the
   first game,      at step 950 the multiplier value is selected
10  (see above table).      The reels of the base game are spun at
   step 951 and the outcome multiplied by the multiplier is
   paid at step      952.  At step   953 determination is made as to
   whether the number of free games of the third further
   feature game have been completed.         If NO, step  950 is
15 returned to and a new multiplier is selected.          If YES, the
   system returns to the base game at step 954.
             In the above embodiments, various terms are used to
   describe the further feature games e.g. "dice game".          This
   is a choice of terminology only and the invention is not
20 limited to this terminology.         The further feature games
   may be called anything that the game designer chooses.
             In the above described embodiments, the base game    (or
   other reel feature game) are emulated as reels or
   implemented as actual reels.         In an alternative
25 embodiment, the display may not emulate reels but merely
   show the selected symbols       in a non-reel format e.g.
   presenting them as emulated playing cards, or other
   graphical representations.         In such an embodiment, each
   selection of a set of symbols is equivalent to one "spin"
30 of the reels.       The term "reel game", as used in this
   specification, encompasses such an implementation.
             The base game need not necessarily be a game based on
   symbol selection, but could be any other type of game.
             In the above described embodiment, the first game and
35 the further feature games are generated as a feature of a
   base game.       In alternative embodiments, the first game and
   further feature games may stand alone and may not be
   8280842_1

                                    - 30
   associated with any base game.
             In the above embodiment, the base game is a "Reel
   Power" type game.       The invention is not limited to this.
   Where a base game is played to give rise to the first
 5 game, the base game may be any type of game.         It may be an
   alternative reel type game to Reel Power or any other
   game.
             In the above embodiment, there are first, second and
   third further feature games as outcomes of the first game.
10 In other embodiments, only one of these further feature
   games may be an outcome, or two.         The invention is not
   limited to having all three further feature games as an
   outcome of the first game.
             In the above described embodiment, there are three
15 "levels" of gaming.       The base game,   in the above
   embodiment being a reel game, provides a first level of
   gaming.       An outcome of this first level of gaming is a
   second level of gaming       (in the above embodiment, being
   implemented as a wheel game).         An outcome of the second
20 level of gaming is a third level of gaming, in the above
   embodiments being a feature game generated as an outcome
   of the wheel game.       Multiple levels of gaming are thus
   provided for the entertainment and interest of the player.
   Further, the third level of gaming may include a plurality
25 of different games that may be selected at the second
   level of gaming.       In the above embodiment, there are three
   different      feature games that may be selected by the wheel.
   The invention is not      limited to three different third
   games, however, and there may any number, from one
30 upwards.
             In alternative embodiments, the first level of gaming
   may be any game and need not be a reel game.         For example,
   it could be a wheel game or any other type of game.
   Further, the second level of gaming could be a reel game,
35 a wheel game or any other type of game.         Also the third
   level of gaming.       It will also be appreciated that in
   other embodiments there may be multiple gaming levels, not
   8280842_1

                                   - 31
   just three levels.       There may be more than three levels.
             In the above described embodiments, the wheel feature
   is an emulation of a wheel on a video display.        In an
   alternative embodiment, the wheel display may comprise a
 5 mechanical wheel and indicator or electro-mechanical wheel
   and indicator.       Embodiments of the invention may utilise
   any practical implementation of the wheel feature.
             The further selector may also be implemented
   mechanically or electromechanically.
10           In the embodiment described with reference to Figure
   7, the indicator 502      comprises a stationary arrow and the
   segments of the wheel are arranged to move.        The indicator
   may take different      forms from this.   For example, the
   indicator may comprise a plurality of chaser lights which
15 select one or more of the outcome indicating parts.         The
   indicator may be an arrow or a type of indicator that
   travels around the periphery of the wheel in continuous or
   small steps.       The indicator may take the form of lighting
   up one or more of the outcome indicating parts.         Any
20 method of indication may be used.
             In the above embodiments, the wheel feature is a
   traditional circular wheel, with the plurality of outcome
   indicating parts being segments of the wheel.        In
   alternative embodiments, the wheel feature may be
25 generally rectangular, triangular, or polygonal in overall
   shape.       In an alternative embodiment, the feature may not
   be a wheel at all, and could be, for example, a series of
   adjacent      segments with an indicator moving between the
   segments.       Other implementations are also possible.
30           It will be appreciated that the above described
   embodiments may be implemented utilising program code.
   The program code may be supplied in a number of ways,        for
   example in a computer readable medium, such as a disk or a
   memory, or as a data signal       (by downloading it from a
35 server).
             In the claims which follow and in the preceding
   description of the invention, except where the context
   8280842_1

                              - 32
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
 5 not to preclude the presence or addition of  further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
             It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the
   art that numerous variations and/or modifications may be
   made to the invention as shown in the specific embodiments
10 without departing from the spirit or scope of the
   invention as broadly described.   The present embodiments
   are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
   illustrative and not restrictive.
   8280842_1

                                   - 33
   The claims defining the invention are as follows
   1.        A gaming system, comprising a game controller
 5 arranged to control operation of a base game, from which
   is triggered a first game having a plurality of available
   first game outcomes, and a display arranged to display a
   representation of play of the first game, the
   representation comprising a first selector having a
10 plurality of outcome indicating parts, at least one blank
   indicating part and an indicator, the game controller
   being arranged to determine a first game outcome for the
   first game from the plurality of available game outcomes,
   and to control the selector to indicate the outcome
15 indicating part or the blank indicating part associated
   with the first game outcome;       and
             wherein at least one of the available first game
   outcomes is a further feature game, the game controller
   being arranged to control play of the further feature game
20 to determine a prize to be awarded, the further feature
   game being different to the base game and comprising a
   plurality of second selectors that are initiated in
   sequence, wherein at least one outcome of a second
   selector is a sequence continued outcome, and wherein the
25 next in sequence of the second selectors is only initiated
   when said sequence continue outcome occurs;      and
             wherein at least one other of the available first
   game outcomes is a game ending outcome in which the
   selector indicates the at least one blank indicating part,
30 the gaming controller being further arranged to end the
   first game in response to the indication of at least one
   blank indicating part.
   2.        A gaming system in accordance with claim 1, wherein
35 at least one of the available outcomes of a second
   selector determines a prize to be awarded.
   8280842_1

                                   - 34
   3.        A gaming system in accordance with claim 1 or 2,
   wherein the game controller is arranged to control the
   display to display a representation of the further feature
   game, the representation comprising the plurality of
 5 second selectors, each second selector having a plurality
   of outcome indicating parts indicating the available
   further selector outcomes.
   4.        A gaming system in accordance with claim 3, wherein
10 the representation of the second selector is of a die, and
   wherein the plurality of outcome indicating parts of the
   second selectors are represented by faces of the die.
   5.        A gaming system in accordance with claim 2, 3 or 4,
15 wherein the prize to be awarded depends upon the number of
   second selectors in the sequence that are played.
   6.        A gaming system in accordance with claim 1, 2, 3 or
   5, wherein the game controller is arranged to control the
20 display to display a representation of each of the second
   selectors in the sequence of second selectors.
   7.        A gaming system in accordance with claim 6, wherein
   if a second selector in the sequence is not played, a
25 representation of that second selector is not displayed.
   8.        A gaming system in accordance with claim 6, wherein
   the representation of each second selector of the sequence
   comprises a display of a die, the outcome indicating parts
30 of each second selector being represented by faces of the
   respective die.
   9.        A gaming system in accordance with claim 8, wherein
   the game controller is arranged to control the display to
35 represent each die in the sequence to show a face which
   represents the second selector outcome determined by the
   game controller for each second selector in the sequence.
   8280842_1

                                   - 35
   10.       A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
   preceding claims, wherein the first game is a wheel game
   and each of the outcome indicating parts is represented as
 5 a segment of a wheel.
   11.       A gaming system in accordance with any one of the
   preceding claims, wherein the first game is generated as
   an outcome of a base game.
10
   12.       A gaming system in accordance with any of claims 1 to
   11 wherein the base game is a reel game.
   13.       A method of gaming using a game controller and a
15 display, comprising the steps of:
             playing via the controller a base game;
             triggering from the base game a first game having a
   plurality of available game outcomes;
             displaying on the display a representation of play of
20 the first game, the representation of play of the first
   game comprising a first selector having a plurality of
   first outcome indicating parts, at least one blank
   indicating part and an indicator;
             determining via the game controller a first game
25 outcome for the first game from the plurality of available
   game outcomes;
             controlling via the game controller the selector to
   indicate the outcome indicating part or the blank
   indicating part associated with the first game outcome;
30 and
             wherein at least one of the available first game
   outcomes being a further feature game, and
             playing via the game controller the further feature
   game to determine a prize to be awarded, the further
35 feature game comprising a plurality of second selectors;
   initiating the plurality of second selectors in sequence;
   and
   8280842_1

                                   - 36
             wherein at least one outcome of the plurality of
   second selectors is a sequence continue outcome;
             initiating the next in sequence of the second
   selectors only when said sequence outcome occurs;
 5           and wherein at least one other of the available first
   game outcomes is a game ending outcome in which the
   indicator indicates the at least one blank indicating
   part;
             and ending the first game via the controller in
10 response to the game ending outcome.
   14.       A method in accordance with claim 13, comprising the
   step of displaying a representation of the further feature
   game, the representation comprising the plurality of
15 second selectors having a plurality of outcome indicating
   parts; and indicating a second selector outcome.
   15.       A method in accordance with claim 14, wherein the
   representation of the further selector is of a die, and
20 wherein the plurality of outcome indicating parts are
   represented by faces of the die.
   16.       A method in accordance with claim 13, 14 or 15,
   wherein the step of playing the further feature game
25 comprises the steps of operating a sequence of second
   selectors, and selecting an outcome for a second selector
   in the sequence.
   17.       A method in accordance with claim 16, wherein at
30 least one outcome of each second selector in the sequence
   of second selectors is a sequence continue outcome; and
   wherein if a sequence continue outcome is achieved, the
   method comprises the step of playing the next second
   selector in the sequence.
35
   8280842_1

                                   - 37
   18.       A method in accordance with claim 16, comprising the
   step of displaying a representation of each of the second
   selectors in the sequence of further selectors.
 5 19.       A method in accordance with claim 18, wherein if a
   further selector in the sequence is not played, a
   representation of the further selector is not displayed.
   20.       A method in accordance with claim 18 or 19, wherein
10 the representation of each second selector of the sequence
   comprises a display of a die, the outcome indicating parts
   of each second selector being represented by faces of the
   respective die.
15 21.       A method in accordance with claim 20, comprising the
   step of controlling the display to represent each die in
   the sequence to show a face which represents the second
   selector outcome.
20 22.       A method in accordance with any one of claims  13 to
   21 and further including awarding a prize dependent upon
   the number of second selectors in the sequence that are
   played.
25 23.       A method in accordance with of any of claims 13 to
   22, wherein the first game is a wheel game and each of the
   outcome indicating parts is represented as a segment of a
   wheel.
30 24.       A method in accordance with claim 23, wherein the
   first game is generated as an outcome of a base game.
   25.       A method in accordance with claim 24, wherein the
   base game is a reel game.
35
   26.       A method in accordance with any one of claims 13 to
   25, wherein the step of playing the further feature game
   8280842_1

                                   - 38
   comprises playing a reel game and selecting one or more
   symbols from a plurality of available symbols.
   27.       A method in accordance with claim 26, wherein the
 5 step of playing the reel game, comprises the step of
   holding one or more reels and spinning a remaining one or
   more reels.
   28.       A method in accordance with any one of claims 13 to
10 27, wherein the step of playing the further feature game
   comprises playing a game by controlling selection of a
   plurality of symbols from a set of symbols.
   29.       A method in accordance with claim 13, comprising the
15 further step of selecting a multiplier; and multiplying an
   outcome of the further feature game by the multiplier to
   determine the prize.
   30.       A game controller for a gaming system, the game
20 controller being arranged to control operation of a base
   game from which is triggered a first game having a
   plurality of available game outcomes, and control
   operation of a display to display a representation of play
   of the first game, the representation comprising a first
25 selector having a plurality of outcome indicating parts
   and at least one blank indicating part and an indicator,
   the game controller being arranged to determine a first
   game outcome for the first game from the plurality of
   available game outcomes, and to control the selector to
30 indicate the outcome indicating part or the blank
   indicating part associated with the first game outcome;
   and
             wherein at least one of the available first game
   outcomes being a further feature game, the game controller
35 being arranged to control play of the further feature game
   to determine a prize to be awarded, the further feature
   game being different to the base game and comprising a
   8280842_1

                                  - 39
   plurality of second selectors that are initiated in
   sequence, wherein at least one outcome of a second
   selector is a sequence continue outcome, and wherein the
   next in sequence of the second selectors is only initiated
 5 when said sequence continue outcome occurs; and wherein at
   least one other of the available first game outcomes is a
   game ending outcome in which the selector indicates the at
   least one blank indicating part, and ending the first game
   in response to the game ending outcome.
10
   31.       A game controller in accordance with claim 30,
   wherein at least one of the available outcomes of a second
   selector determines a prize to be awarded.
15 32.       A game controller in accordance with claim 31,
   wherein the game controller is arranged to control the
   display to display a representation of the further feature
   game, the representation comprising the plurality of
   second selectors, each of the second selectors having a
20 plurality of outcome indicating parts indicating the
   available further selector outcomes.
   33.       A game controller in accordance with claim 32,
   wherein the representation of the second selector is of a
25 die, and wherein the plurality of outcome indicating parts
   of the second selectors are represented by faces of the
   die.
   34.       A game controller in accordance with any of claims
30 31 to 33, wherein the prize to be awarded depends upon the
   number of second selectors in the sequence that are
   played.
   35.       A game controller in accordance with any of claims 30
35 to 34, wherein the game controller is arranged to control
   the display to display a representation of each of the
   second selectors in the sequence of second selectors.
   8280842_1

                                   - 40
   36.       A game controller in accordance with claim 35,
   wherein if a second selector in the sequence is not
   played, a representation of that second selector is not
 5 displayed.
   37.       A game controller in accordance with claim 35,
   wherein the representation of each second selector of the
   sequence comprises a display of a die, the outcome
10 indicating parts of each further selector being
   represented by faces of the respective die.
   38.       A game controller in accordance with claim 37,
   wherein the game controller is arranged to control the
15 display to represent each die in the sequence to show a
   face which represents the second selector outcome
   determined by the game controller for each second selector
   in the sequence.
20 39.       A game controller in accordance with any one of claim
   30 to 38,      wherein the first game is a wheel game and each
   of the outcome indicating parts is represented as a
   segment of a wheel.
25 40.       A game controller in accordance with any one of
   claims 30 to 39, wherein the first game is generated as an
   outcome of a base game.
   41.       A game controller in accordance with any one of claim
30 30 to 40, wherein the base game is a reel game.
   42.       A game controller in accordance with any one of claim
   30 to 41, wherein the game controller is arranged to
   control play of a reel game to implement the further
35 feature game, and to select one or more symbols from a
   plurality of available symbols.
   8280842_1

                                 - 41
  43.       A game controller in accordance with claim 42,
  wherein there are a plurality of reels and one or more of
  the reels are held and the other reels spun.
5 44.       A game controller in accordance with any one of
  claims 30 to 43, wherein the game controller is arranged
  to determine a multiplier for multiplication of a prize
  outcome of the further feature game.
  8280842_1

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1
                                      1/12

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2
                                      2/12

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                 3/12
Figure 4   Figure 3

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 5
                                      4/12

                                5/12
<removed-date>       GAME CONTROLLER      300
               SYMBOL                               303
                                     SYMBOL STORE
              SELECTOR
<removed-apn>
    302
               OUTCOME                  DISPLAY     301
              GENERATOR               CONTROLLER
    304
                          Figure 6

                     6/12
                            405
<removed-date>
                                  404
                                        403
                                               400
<removed-apn>
                                              402
         406
                                        401
               406
               Figure 7

                    7/12
<removed-date>
                                 500
                                  T
                                  C
<removed-apn>
                                  B
                           501
              Figure 8

                           8/12
                                         700
<removed-date>
              PLAY     SELECT        PLAY
                      SYMBOLS
<removed-apn>
                                   701
                                                      702
              LOSE   DETERMINE     WIN      PAY WIN
                     BASE GAME               RESULT
                      OUTCOME
                         TRIGGER
                         FEATURE
                                     703
                        SPIN
                       WHEEL
                                    704
                      PERFORM
                      OUTCOME
                      FEATURE
                     Figure 9

                          9/12
                                 800
<removed-date>
                     HOLD M
                      REELS
                                       801
<removed-apn>
                    SPIN OTHER
                   REEL(S) FOR
                   PAY OUTCOME
                                 802
              NO     N SPINS
                    COMPLETE?
                         YES
                                 803
                    RETURN TO
                    BASE GAME
                   Figure 10

                                 10/12
                                                         903
                           900
                                                      PAY
<removed-date>
              SPIN DIE                              OUTCOME
                                                     1 DIE
                         901                  902
                                           PAY
<removed-apn>
              NON-ZERO     YES
                                         OUTCOME
               DIGIT?                     1 DIE
                  NO
                           904
               SPIN
              FURTHER
                DIE
                         905                 906
                                       PAY
              NON-ZERO
                                     OUTCOME
                DIGIT
                                      2 DIE
                                              908
                           907
                                       PAY
              SPIN x
                                     OUTCOME
               DIE
                                      x DIE
                         Figure 11

                           11/12
                                     950
<removed-date>
                      SELECT
                    MULTIPLIER
                                    951
<removed-apn>
                        SPIN
                       REELS
                                         952
                   PAY OUTCOME X
                     MULTIPLIER
                                   953
                        FREE
                       GAMES
                     COMPLETE?
                         YES
                                    954
              NO     RETURN TO
                      BASE GME
                    Figure 12

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 13
                                       12/12

