H:\kmln eroven.NRPortbliDCC KMH\10065910 _do-2/05/2016
                                                       ABSTRACT
               In but one embodiment, there is provided a system having a display to indicate the amount
of a material being added to a scale. The system includes tolerance indication software configured
to indicate predefined ranged tolerances above and/or below the recommended amounts, such that
a user is able to identify whether the amount added to the scale for a colourant and/or dye blending
material is within the predefined ranged tolerances.           In yet another aspect the memory includes
instructions to recreate formulas based on a specific product brand. Software can be provided to
permit a user to convert the formula, either a portion or the entire formula, to a second product
brand.
Fig. 15

                              15/22
                          4--          CU  -L-    r
             :>           C/)       0
                                       w0
QO             0u                   CI c3
         CIO                           C-)
        CIO'                     _D
                  CD,
          E                                             cm
  'I--)                                             a.) w  a
              :3      CO-           C        Co 0

                      BLENDING COLOR AND CONTROL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
Cross Reference to Related Applications
[01]      The present application is a divisional application of Australian patent application number <removed-apn>
filed <removed-date>, which is a divisional of Australian patent application number 2012217875 filed February 14,
2012, which is a nonprovisional application of US Application 61/442,553 filed February 14, 2011 and also a
continuation in part application of US Patent Application 12/986,448 filed January 7, 2011, which is a
continuation in part of 12/849,427 filed August 3, 2010, which is continuation in part application of US Patent
Application 12/396,050 filed March 2, 2009, which is a non-provisional application of both US Provisional
Application Serial Number 61/033,053 filed March 3. 2008 and US Provisional Application Serial Number
61/115,960 filed November 19, 2008; all of which are hereby incorporated by reference.
Field of the Invention
[02]      The present invention relates to an inventory management and control for a color system for the
combination of components to produce a desired mixture along with the management of the components,
information, and businesses dealing with the same.
Background of the Invention
[03]      The present invention can be used in various fields and have various applications. In one such field,
namely, cosmetics and hair dye preparations, the current field packages hair dyes in small containers, including
but not limited to various sizes of tubes and bottles. They further provide salons with recipe chart(s) that show
how much of ingredient "A" is to be mixed with how much of ingredients "B" and "C" and "D" to produce the
desired end color. To produce the desired color, the colorist must first locate the required ingredients. This can
be a challenge unto itself at a busy salon with multiple colorists. In addition, with as many as 60 or more
ingredients in each manufacturer's colorant lines, using the correct materials in the right amounts is very
important. After selecting the color to be used, the next step is to squeeze or pour the approximate amounts of
each ingredient into a mixing bowl. Various coarse measurement techniques are currently used, so there is very
little control over the end product. This current method employed by most salons lacks precision and control and
does not ensure correct results. Stock color recipes are listed on a color chart provided by the colorant
manufacturer. Color formulations are often adjusted to suit a particular customer's needs. These custom colors
are typically recorded on 3x5 cards or other prepared means and filed away for future reference. The drawbacks
to this approach include: inaccurate volumetric measurements (.add 1/2 capful..." "squeeze tube to line...");
end results that are highly dependent on operator skill level or chance; no controls are available to monitor
outcomes; hand-written customer records have no backups; and the whole process is devoid of meaningful
information and control. Overall, this creates a cluttered, improper. and disorganized process totally devoid of
accurate measurement.
[04]      Fully-automatic computer-controlled dispensers designed for hair coloring materials were introduced in
the 1990's to address the weaknesses of the current hand-mixing process. Most of these models sold for $ 10,000
to $20,000, making these dispensers unaffordable for virtually all salons. These dispensers automatically
measured the correct amount of each ingredient
                                                        - 1-

with great precision and a software database stored the stock color recipes as well as specially created blends and since the
formulation and customer information were stored electronically, locating the required information was easy. Files could also be
backed up so valuable customer history data was more secure and easily shared with other locations.
[05]      However, these earlier automatic dispensers had one very serious drawback, they required specially-designed internal
storage bags for the various color components. These containers typically were designed to hold one or two liters and were
specially constructed to eliminate the possibility of air infiltration, which could oxidize and ruin the dye. Unfortunately, the
required bulk packaging further required manufacturers to incur very sizeable, multi-million dollar capital costs to add additional
manufacturer's filling lines and to produce the special containers. Additionally, major drawbacks of the automatic dispensers
included their high cost, extreme complexity, high maintenance requirements, and as noted, their requirement that hair color
producers incur high cost capital investments to meet the automatic dispensers' unique packaging requirements. Therefore, the
project was deemed uneconomical and did not go forward. This failure created a need for a much simpler, more cost-effective
approach which eliminates the drawbacks of earlier designs.
[06]       When a person needs to blend or mix a number of components, the need to eliminate waste, create a cost-effective
approach to aid the user, and provide a process that produces the desired mixture is highly desired. There is a need to provide a
monitored approach, coupled with accurate measurement means to eliminate the potential for error and improve the overall
accuracy, while producing accurate measurements, information to control the whole process.
Summary of the Invention
[07]       One or more of the embodiments in the present invention aims to bring control to an otherwise un-controlled process at
a substantial reduced cost (about $2500 - $3500). One or more of the current embodiments solves problems that have existed but
have never been solved since the development of professional hair coloring salons. The new monitored approach disclosed
herein includes a computer driven system with precision scale, a computer-based recipe management system and optional storage
to manage and protect blending ingredients, and will, if necessary, lock to minimize theft as well as a color management system
for the combination of components to produce a desired mixture along with the management of the components, information, and
businesses dealing with the same. Every color management system has a blending station with the company's proprietary color
blending management software. The blending station includes a keyboard, LCD screen which may be a touch screen and a scale
in communication with the computer to provide feedback on exactly how much of a each ingredient has actually been added to
the batch. The computer driven system may also contain storage drawers or other receptacles to organize and store the individual
blending components. Each receptacle may have an LED or other indicator to simplify product selection which is controlled by
the computer driven system. Each receptacle may also have electronically controlled locking mechanisms, which are also driven
by the system to reduce theft. In addition, the color management system can be enhanced with an optional bar code reader to
verify the ingredients against the color recipe and to facilitate inventory control.
                                                                   -2-

[08]       In one embodiment there is provided a color management system for preparation of mixtures, such as, but not limited
to, hair dye mixtures, personal care product mixtures, etc. The color management system includes a computer driven system
having at least a memory, input controls, and a display. The memory has the capacity to store at least one mixture formula for
the mixing of one or more components, such as, but not limited to, colorants, dyes, and/or blending materials. The color
management system also includes a scale communicating with the computer system, to monitors a weight on the scale and
provides information on changes thereto. In addition, the computer system, upon receiving an input for a creation of a mixture,
displays a formulation of the mixture indicating the component(s) and amount(s) needed to create the desired mixture.
[09]       In an aspect of the invention, a method is provided for preparing a hair dye mixture. The method includes having a
scale and control system in communication with each other. The control system provides for a memory and a display, wherein
the memory contains a formula defining instructions for blending a hair dye mixture. The method displays the instructions on the
display. The use may then view the display of instructions and then adds to a receptacle on the scale, colorant(s) and dye blending
material(s) in accordance with the instructions by using hair color manufacturers' standardized packaging, such that non
standardized or specialized packaging of colorants and/or dye blending materials are not required.
[10]       In other aspects of the invention, there is provided a computer system that monitors changes in the weight on the scale
and adjusts (i.e. reformulates) the formulation when a weight of a component added to the mixture is different (larger or smaller)
than a recommended formulated amount and the computer system receives an input to adjust the formulas to the newly
determined reconfigured weight of the component. The computer system may also monitor changes in the weight on the scale
and displays a difference between a recommended formulated amount of a component and an amount of the component added
and measured by the scale. The differences displayed may also be measured down to a zeroed amount left to indicate how much
additional of each other component is needed to be added to reach the recommended formulation. The computer system may
also be linked to the salon's management software to exchange information on customers and formulas associated with particular
customers. The computer system may store in the memory any changes in the formulation of the mixture. The computer system
may also store in the memory any changes in the formulation of the mixture and send the changes in the formulation of the
mixture to the salon's management software.
[11]       Yet in other aspects, the color management system may adjust the formulation of a mixture upon receiving an input on
a total amount of mixture required or a strength of the mixture. Yet further aspects provides for receiving an input that the
mixture is a custom color, custom color software         acts to display a listing of components and blending materials, activates
indicator(s) for particular selected component(s), monitors a separate amount and a total amount of the components placed in the
bowl or other container, and stores a formulated mixture upon receiving an input the mixture is accepted and completed.
[12]       In another embodiment of the invention, the operator enters a customer name into the and the computer which displays
the customer's history, which may include the formulas stored and previously used for the customer. If this is a new customer, a
                                                                 -3 -

history file is created and the operator selects desired components from a pallet chart, recipe book, or customer history file; enters
the required amount of finished components and finally the activator strength is selected. The operator is instructed to place an
empty batch bowl on the scale and the system then prompts the operator for the first component, and an LED or other indicator
adjacent to the corresponding receptacle is illuminated and/or the receptacle is automatically unlocked and/or opened. The
operator adds the amount indicated on the display panel, while the scale monitors exactly how much has been added and provides
feedback to the operator as to when to stop adding, leading to an extremely accurate dispense. After returning the bottle, tube, or
other container to the designated storage receptacle, the operator presses "next", which closes and locks the storage receptacle
and the next LED or other indicator is activated and the corresponding next receptacle is unlocked and/or opened to provide
access to the next ingredient. Bar code readers can also be used to control the ingredient solution and control process.
Afterwards a batch record is placed in the customer's history file.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[13]       A fuller understanding of the foregoing may be had by reference to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[14]       FIG IA is a perspective view of one embodiment of a system designed to control a manual process for mixing
components, which includes a mixing station and optional storage receptacles;
[15]       FIG 1B is a first and cross sectional view of the embodiment from FIG 1A;
[16]       FIG 2 is an enlarged view of a receptacle from FIG 1A showing storage areas for the components;
[17]       FIG 3 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the system designed to control a process for mixing components,
illustrated the use on a pedestal;
[18]       FIG 4 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the system designed to control a process for mixing components,
illustrated the use of curved receptacle storage areas;
[19]       FIG 5 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the system designed to control a process for mixing components,
illustrated the use of receptacles with a change in the LED indicators;
[20]       FIG 6 is an enlarged view of a receptacle from FIG 5;
[21]       FIG 7 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the system designed to control a process for mixing components,
illustrated the use of slotted tubes as opposed to receptacles;
[22]       FIG 8 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the system designed to control a process for mixing components,
illustrated the use of slotted tubes as opposed to receptacles;
[23]       FIG 9 is an enlarged view of the slotted tubes from FIG 7 or FIG 8;
[24]       FIG 10 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the system designed to control a process for mixing components;
[25]       FIG 11 is a perspective view of a bar code scanner used in one or more of the system embodiments;
                                                                -4-

[26]       FIG 12 is a perspective view of one embodiment of the system designed to control a process for mixing components,
illustrated a modular system with at least detached storage receptacles;
[27]       FIG 13 is a block diagram illustrating the creation of a new hair dye formula;
[28]       FIG 14 is a block diagram illustrating the creation of a custom color; and
[29]       FIG 15 is a system illustration showing various software components and their relationship to the system;
[30]       FIG 16 is a system illustration showing various software components and their relationship to the system;
[31]       FIG 17 is a system illustration showing various software components and their relationship to the system;
[32]       FIG 18 is a system illustration showing various software components and their relationship to the system;
[33]       FIG 19 is a system illustration showing various software components and their relationship to the system;
[34]       FIG 20 shows a particular bin structure capable of being included in the various system embodiments;
[35]       FIG 21 is a perspective view of a system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention; and
[36]       FIG 22 is a screen shot of a color ingredient mixing system.
Detailed Description of the Embodiments
[37]        While the invention is susceptible to embodiments in many different forms, there are shown in the drawings and will
described herein, in detail, the preferred embodiments of the present invention. It should be understood, however, that the
present disclosure is to be considered an exemplification of the principles of the invention and is not intended to limit the spirit or
scope of the invention, claims and/or embodiments illustrated.
[38]        In one embodiment of the invention, there is shown and described a system designed to control a process for mixing
components and which brings control to an otherwise un-controlled process. The components can be various ingredients to a
mixture, such as, dyes used for blending hair dye mixtures, components used for blending personal beauty products, foods, etc.
In an important aspect of the invention there is provided for a method for preparing a hair dye mixture. By definition throughout,
the method may be performed as a manual process, semi-manual, or automatic process. In a manual process the stylist is
manually adds the components of the mixtures to a bowl by following instructions provided. The stylist will thus retrieve the
individual components from receptacles and squeeze the contents into the bowl or other container on the scale. In a semi-manual
process, the stylist is still retrieving the components from the receptacles. However, the addition of the component contents into
the bowl may be with the aid of mechanical help such as an extruder, mechanical squeezer, etc. In a limited aspect, an automatic
process may also be covered by the method if the automatic machine retrieved standardized packaging components (as defined
below) from storage or the receptacles. This can be conceived if a machine arm with pinchers is automatically controlled to
retrieve the packaging components from storage areas and then returned the components after use.
[39]       As defined throughout this application the term manufacturers' standardized packaging is an extremely important
concept and is thus defined as packaging components of raw materials generally available to a vast majority of professional
                                                                 -5-

salons through normal distribution channels. The standardized packaging is contrasted with non-standardized or specialized
packaging, which is defined as custom packaging of raw material designed for specific applications or specific machines used in
the hair-dye industry and which require specific sizes, quantities, or characteristics of containers and raw materials and not
generally available to the industry but rather to only one or a few industry participants. For example, an automatic hair dye
mixing and dispensing machine will require specialized packaging of the raw materials in order to fit and be compatible with the
automatic dispensing machine.
[40]      Referring now to FIG 1 shows one embodiment of the system, generally referenced as number 100. The system 100
includes organized storage of the components 110 (such as in one example, color blending ingredients), a computer-driven
system 120, a small electronic scale 130 to be used in monitoring the mixing or blending process. In addition, the system may,
but need not, include self contained pumps 140 and/or tanks, to add common activators or ingredients, such as peroxides.
[41]      As shown in Figures 1 - 13, a number of different embodiments of the system 100 are illustrated. Each system 100
contains a number of bins, drawers, or receptacles 200 to organize and store the individual components, such as blending dye
ingredient containers/tubes 205. Each receptacle 200 has an associated LED or other indicator 210 driven by the system 220. A
small digital scale 130 is electrically connected to the system 220 to provide feedback to the system 220 on exactly how much of
a given ingredient or activator was added to the specific batch.
[42]      While not necessarily the preferred embodiment, it is possible to include several small reservoirs 225 of common
ingredients, such as, bases and additives, stored within a storage area 230. The reservoirs 225 are coupled with metering pumps
235 to measure the common ingredients which eject from nozzles 237 into a mixture batch. Pumping channels 240 are also
automatically controlled by the system 220. As illustrated, the common ingredients are either manually added or in the case of
the above pumping system automatically pumped into a mixing bowl 245.
[43]      One embodiment of the present invention would be as follows:
[44]      (a) an operator enters/views the customer name or other identifying characteristic into the system 220 via an integral
keyboard 250 or touchpad and display panel 255;
[45]      (b) the system 220 has a memory storing customer information and/or history of the customer's mixture, such as a
specific or predefined color scheme; the system similarly allows editing, adding, and deleting of customer information or
formula;
[46]      (c) the operator may either select a previously stored desired finished mixture or dye color from the customer history,
or from an available list of known ingredients formulate a new formula;
[47]      (d) the operator is then prompted to enter the required amount of finished product (for example whether the operator
needs 1 ounce, 2 ounces, etc. of different ingredients.
[48]      (d) the operator is then instructed to place an empty batch mixing bowl 245 on the scale 130;
                                                                 -6-

[49]       (e) the system 220 will then illuminate or activate an LED or other type of indicator 210 adjacent to a corresponding
receptacle prompting the operator to select the specific component needed for the mixture; optionally the system may control
locking mechanisms on the receptacles to electronically open/close or lock/unlock the desired storage receptacles;
[50]       (f) the operator adds the amount of component that is indicated on the display panel 255 to the bowl 245; while the
amount is being added, the computer system 220 monitors the scale 130 to determine exactly how much has been added; the
display panel 255 indicates how close the addition is to the target weight by displaying how much more must be added and
provides feedback to the operator, this may be done by graphic or other types of indicators as noted herein. In one aspect the
graphic itself can be set such that regardless of the total amount that is needed (1 oz or 5 oz) the graphic will appear the same size
on the display. The amount the graphic is filled will be scaled to accommodate the total amount needed. In comparison a
graphic showing a 1 oz amount will fill at a faster rate than a graphic showing a 5 oz amount.
[51]       (g) after returning the component and closing the designated storage drawer/receptacle, the operator presses "next" (or
any key specified by the computer system), and the next receptacle LED or other indicator is activated or illuminated or the
receptacle is unlocked along with the required amount of the next component or ingredient;
[52]       (h) steps (f) and (g) are repeated until all of the required components or color ingredients and activators have been
added;
[53]       (i) once the batch has been completed, the precise amount of all ingredients are recorded into the customers history file.
[54]      Had this been a custom blended mixture, a separate software function would be selected. Under this function, the
operator would tell the system which ingredients were being added or deleted, and the system would record the exact amount of
each addition or deletion via the integrated scale. When the batch was complete, a record of the custom blend would be stored in
the customer's history file.
[55]       It is herein noted that any type of computer system having a memory storage area, processor to run various programs,
and other components well known in the computer industry can be used by the embodiments herein. The system can be wired or
wirelessly communicating with the plurality of storage receptacles to control the LED or other indicators 210 or other lighting,
electronic locks, opening/closing and/or sound elements to help identify the specific receptacle(s) the operator will be using and
the required amount to be manually dispended to the bowl 245 to mix the specific components. Further, the system is wired or
wirelessly communicating with the electronic scale 130 and the monitor 255 to identify and display to the operator how much of
a specific amount of component needs to be added into the bowl 245 and wired or wirelessly communicating with the storage
receptacles when used.
[56]      On return visits, information stored would be available to precisely re-create the mixture. This concept revolutionizes
the way a mixture is produced, and especially when applied to salons. It replaces a messy, uncontrolled mixing process with an
easy-to-use, guided process to produce the exact mixture (such as an exact color of hair dye) time after time.
                                                                 -7-

[57]       The systems can be configured in various manners. For example as illustrated in FIG 1, the system is a counter-top
model, while FIG 3 shows a free standing model 270 with a stand 275 so the system can stand on the floor. FIG 4 shows a corner
top model 280 with storage receptacle areas 285 that have curved sections 290. In addition FIG 22 shows a various embodiment
of the system with storage receptacles. In FIGS 5 - 6 an alternative system 300 is shown with receptacles 305 that include LED
indicators 310 on the bottom of each receptacle (as opposed to in the center, shown in the previous embodiments).      In addition,
in each embodiment the storage receptacles can be an optional piece to the system inventions.
[58]       In FIGS 7 - 9, a system 400 is shown that includes the same components and functionality as the previous
embodiments, except the receptacles are replaced with opened drawer structures 405 that are secured into openings 410 on the
side storage areas 415. The ends 420 of the tubes would include an LED indicator 425 controlled by the system 220.
[59]       The present embodiment has one or more of the following benefits over prior art systems: it eliminates mixing or
blending errors; the system ensures accuracy; the simple, manual-controlled process produces perfect results regardless of
operator's skill level or experience; the system maintains customer histories, so customer formulations can be precisely repeated
time after time; using the system, even custom formulations are recorded for future reference; the system makes control
independent of the operator, so should a colorist leave a salon, the exact color can be recreated; giving the salon greater control
over customer retention or individual requests; the scale coupled with the control software can correct for over dispensed
ingredients preventing wasted materials and off-shades; the system is compatible with current manufacturing processes and
product packaging; the system brings tidiness and organization to an otherwise very messy process and would save counter
space; and the control software can track material usage to help eliminate shrinkage, provide easier management reports,
estimates future ingredient or inventory needs, and secures the materials and/or discourages employee theft.
[60]       Referring now to FIGS 10 through 12, in another aspect of the present invention, the system would control a display to
indicate a remaining weight required during the dispensing of the component. As the component is being added to the bowl 245,
the display 255 indicates how much of the component remains to be added, by counting up or down to the target weight. Various
kinds of analog indicators (discussed in greater detail below) can be displayed to more effectively communicate the remaining
material to be added. When the operator presses "next" on the system, the system would illuminate the next LED (and/or opens
the next drawer) and also recalibrate the scale to zero and indicate to the operator how much of the next component needs to be
added. Again, as the operator adds the next component, the system leads the operator through the blending process.
[61]       An optional barcode scanner 450 could be provided to verify the correct component SKU prior to use and to facilitate
inventory control. The bar code scanner may also help keep track of the product and make sure the operator is using the correct
product. For example, if the system identifies a particular product in a particular receptacle, the operator after retrieving the
product would scan the product. The system would check to make sure the actual product scanned is the correct product
identified by the system for use. Other types of scanning equipment may be employed such as RFID scanners.
                                                                -8-

[62]       In other aspects of the invention the system 475 may have separate receptacle storage areas 480, shown in FIG 12, as a
more modular system setup. The separate storage areas 480 and the main console area 475 would communicate either wirelessly
or through wired connections. This would allow one or more consoles 475 to communicate and direct the receptacle storage
areas 480 to turn on and off the LED or other indicators 485, in order to illustrate which receptacle to retrieve the required
components 490; and keep track of the quantities of components for re-ordering purposes. In addition, it would thus be possible
to just use a console without the storage receptacles.
[63]       In another embodiment of the present invention, the system 100 may be used in conjunction with management
software. The elements of a basic management package would be shared by the system application including the ability to access
and share customer data, customer history, inventory data, and provide usage reports by stylist, customer, salon, store. This could
be a separate solution linked to the present invention or completely integrated therewith as a single system.
[64]       The management software packages maintain basic customer data such as name, telephone number, email address, etc.
History data would include service date, services provided, user, notes and perhaps photographs. The system may be able to
maintain a separate dispense history file, but will be capable of sharing this information with the management software packages
for inclusion with customer history records.      In addition, the management software packages may have inventory modules,
product usage would need to be reported.
[65]       Referring now generally to FIGS 13 and 14 one or more of the present embodiments will be referenced in the given
flow diagrams to illustrate various inputs and outputs from a given system and includes the use of a blending control software as
described below.
[66]       In use with one or more of the present embodiments and an available management software, operation of the system
could typically follow in the following steps:
[67]       (a) an operator may need to identify or log onto the system and then the operator enters the customer name or other
identifying characteristic (ie telephone number, etc.) into the blending control software, BOX 500;
[68]       (b) the blending control software would act to control and display the customer's history information; However, if this
is a new customer (BOX 505), the blending control software would permit the operator to create a new history file (BOX 510);
[69]       (c) the operator then selects desired components, BOX 515, from an available chart or pallet which is stored within a
formulation database (BOX 520) (if the management software package has a chart or pallet database, the blending control
software would be linked to it or in communication therewith so the chart or pallet could be read and interpreted by the blending
control software;
[70]       (d) the blending control software then prompts for the required amount or size of finished component;
[71]       (e) the blending control software may then prompt for an activator strength;
                                                                 -9-

[72]        (f) the stock color recipe is mathematically scaled for the desired batch size and the selected activator strength is
displayed, BOX 525;
[73]        (g) the operator is prompted to place an empty mixing bowl on the scale;
[74]                    The blending control software will compare actual weight of the bowl against a target range value - this
range of values is to be user definable. If the set range is 0 to 0, the no validation will occur. The blending control software will
contain a maximum weight for the mixing bowl to allow sufficient fluid capacity and stay below the maximum scale capacity.
For example, if the maximum scale capacity is 1,200 grams, and the batch size calls for 600 grams of dye components, then the
maximum possible weight of the mixing bowl would be 600 grams. However, to allow for batch correction capability, the
calculation should assume a 50% dye component weight variation (I.e. of 600 grams, plus variation = 900 grams leaving a
maximum bowl weight of 300 grams) Enforcing a maximum bowl value ensures sufficient scale capacity for color mixing.
Alternatively, the operator may simply be able to zero out the weight to ensure the system and scale are ready to continue.
[75]        (h) if the correct bowl weight value is achieved or the weight is zeroed out, the blending control software will prompt
for the first component, BOX 530.
[76]                    If the bowl is above the maximum allowable, a caution message should be displayed.
[77]        (i) as the first component is prompted, an LED or other indicator adjacent to the corresponding receptacle is activated
so the operator can quickly locate the desired ingredient (for systems with optional storage system);
[78]        (j) if storage locks have been included, an unlocking signal is provided to a corresponding solenoid. For reference, this
optional feature would only allow receptacles which were un-locked by the blending control software to be opened. This
provides two features: (a) prevent inventory theft and/or (b) force the operator to use the system - operators can't get inventory
otherwise. This ensures that all transactions are recorded and properly accounted for in the system's history files. Similarly, the
blending control software could actual open and or close the receptacles; or lock and unlock the receptacles with appropriate
hardware and mechanics, all of which are well known;
[79]        (k) as noted above either the weight of the mixing bowl is internally recorded for use in measurement calculation or
scale is zeroed out; a digital value of 0.0 grams is displayed to help the user begin added the first ingredient;
[80]        (1) the operator adds the amount indicated on the display panel, while the scale monitors exactly how much has been
added and provides user feedback via the analog and/or digital indicators, BOX 535
[81]        (in) a color-coded analog bar-graph scale (or as noted below - other types of analog or non-digital displays or sounds
can be used) is displayed that shows the progress of the first component being added. If an analog scale is used then as material
is added, the analog bar-graph scale changes color from green to yellow, to orange and finally to red. Green being the starting
point, yellow to indicate the operator is nearing the target weight, orange is very close, and red meaning stop; If other indicators
are used the display or sounds will change accordingly.
                                                                 - 10-

[82]      (n) the blending control software will compare the actual dispensed amount to establish accuracy standards. When the
calculated range of a sufficient amount of an ingredient has been reached, the ingredient will be considered complete and the
display will turn red. If the volume added is greater than the maximum allowed value; the user will be prompted to "accept", or
"correct" the batch. If "correct" is selected, the total batch volume will be re-calculated based on the amount of the discrepancy,
BOX 540. All corresponding weights will be increased accordingly. If other ingredients had been added to the batch prior to the
over-dispense, the blending control software will automatically prompt the operator to add additional amounts of these
ingredients as required. When the correct add has been completed, the operator is prompted to return the component to the
storage receptacle/drawer (if applicable) and to close the receptacle in order to continue.
[83]      (o) the blending control software would then prompt the operator to the next component by illuminating the LED
adjacent to the corresponding receptacle. Similarly, if door locks have been included, and unlocking signal is provided to the
corresponding solenoid.
[84]      (p) the current weight of the mixing bowl is internally recorded for use in measurement calculation and then zeroed out
with a digital value of 0.0 grams being displayed to indicate that the blending control software is ready for the next ingredient.
The operator repeats steps (1)through (n) for all weighed ingredients (BOX 545).
[85]      (q) if the blending control software is equipped with "automatic additive dispensing" the blending control software will
automatically dispense the desired activator or base ingredients. The dispensing function is performed gravimetrically (using the
scale).  If more than one ingredient is to be added, they will be dispensed sequentially.        Without automatic dispensing, the
blending control software would simply prompt the user to add the appropriate activator or base ingredient and indicate the
required amount as indicated for other ingredients in the previous steps.
[86]      (r) when all ingredients have been added, the operator will be prompted to remove the mixing bowl (Box 550); a
database record is created with the precise amount of each ingredient dispensed and the record is stored in the history file (Box
555). A record containing the color name, amount, time and date is created and can be passed to the salon management software
package and the salon management software package is then able to attach the information as a note to the custom record file.
[87]      (s) in addition, a record of the amount of each ingredient used will be maintained in the blending control software for
inventory tracking purposes. The operator will have the ability to query the blending control software to determine the amount of
each ingredient for a given time period. The blending control software should also be capable of passing usage values to the
salon management software package if necessary.
[88]      In instances where the operator would be creating a new mixture for a customer (FIG 14), the operator would have the
option to create a new file (BOX 560), which would be selected to start the appropriate software section of the blending control
software. The operation would follow similar steps to the above, except instead of notifying the operator which component to
use, the blending control software would prompt the operator to select the first ingredient to dispense from an on-screen list of
                                                                 -11-

available components, such as listing available colors and/or additives (BOX 565). After the selection is made, an LED or other
indicator adjacent to the corresponding receptacle is illuminated to provide the operator with an identification of where the
component can be located (BOX 570). If door locks have been included, an unlocking signal is provided to the corresponding
solenoid. After which locking signals, and even if desired opening and closing signals could be easily added.
[89]       The tare weight of the mixing bowl is internally recorded for use in measurement calculation, and a digital value of 0.0
grams is displayed with the bowl on the scale to indicate the blending control software is ready for an ingredient to be added.
The operator adds the desired amount of the first ingredient, while the corresponding reference weight is displayed (BOX 575).
When the addition is complete, the user selects "next".        The operator is prompted to return the component to the storage
receptacle (if applicable) and to "Press any key to Continue." (BOX 580). If door locks are used, the blending control software
may automatically lock the receptacle when the component is returned and the receptacle closed by the operator or it may be
automatically closed by the blending control software after the component is returned and the operator indicates that they would
want to proceed. The display would show the name of the first ingredient, and the amount added to the formula. The operator is
prompted to select the second ingredient from an on-screen list (BOX 585). If door locks have been included, and unlocking
signal is provided to the corresponding solenoid.        The tare weight of the mixing bowl is internally recorded for use in
measurement calculation, and then zeroed out with a digital value of 0.0 grams displayed so the operator can add the next
ingredient.    The operator adds the desired amount of the second ingredient, while the corresponding reference weight is
displayed. When the addition is complete, the user selects "next." The display shows the names of the first two ingredients, and
the amount of each added to the formula. This would continue until all of the required ingredients have been added. When the
last ingredient has been added, the operator selects "done" (BOX 590). Upon completion, a total batch volume will be calculated
based on the specific gravity of the individual ingredients. This value is stored for future reference to permit batch size scaling of
the recipe. A database record is created with the precise amount and optimum target amount of each ingredient dispensed and is
stored in the history file within the blending control software (BOX 595). A text record containing the name, amount, time and
date is created and passed to the management software package to be attached as a note to the custom record file. A record of the
amount of each ingredient used will be maintained in the blending control software for inventory tracking purposes. A simple
query should be available to determine the amount of each ingredient for a given time period.
[90]       In addition, raw material inventory management functionality with and without the use of optional barcode equipment
may be provided by one or more of the present embodiments.            Barcode scanning devices simplify inventory management
functions. By using an attached barcode scanner, mixing ingredients can be easily identified for inventory tracking purposes.
The functions could be two-fold. One, an on-hand salon inventory could be established by scanning all available product
inventory items.    When new shipments are received, they too could be scanned thereby easily adding them to the on-hand
inventory. Secondly, when blending control software is equipped with the optional storage receptacles, scanning the component
                                                                - 12-

could also be used to illuminate the appropriate lamp, or unlock the corresponding door. This functionality will help to ensure
that the materials are properly stored and further minimizes the potential for selecting the wrong material during subsequent
mixing operations.
[91]       In the case of a salon, the blending control software may also track the operator(s) use of the system which allows cost
reporting by employee. It would also accurately track third-party billing for "chair rental" environments. In many salons, some
of the stylists are not employees, but rather rent a chair from the salon owner. Sometimes a stylist renting a chair provides their
own materials, such as hair color, and some utilize materials from the salon. Since the blending control software would know the
exact amount of each ingredient included in a blend, it has the ability to establish the exact material cost for each batch. This data
can be used to better understand service costs and can also be used to provide billing data for "rental chair" staff.
[92]       In additional embodiments, the blending control software can be provided with the ability to help eliminate waste. In
salons, the user or stylists typically mix more than the required amount of components for their clients. The reasons are twofold:
(a) current volumetric measurement systems do not allow for scaled down batches, and (b) it is difficult to estimate the actual
amount of components or color required and they do not want to run out mid-application. One improved feature would allow the
user or stylist to return the mixing bowl to the scale after finishing with the client. Since the weight of the bowl at the end of the
mixing step was known when the mixture was produced, the blending control software can subtract the returned bowl weight
from the final weight. It is then possible for the blending control software to know the amount of mixture actually used by the
user or stylist during application. The client's master formula can then be adjusted to the actual amount used and if necessary an
additional amount can be added for a defined safely factor, such as a 5% or 10%. On subsequent client visits, the re-scaled
master formula, combined with the precision measurement capabilities of the blending control software virtually eliminates
product waste.
[93]       In one embodiment there is provided, a system for recalculating a formula previously used in preparing a mixture made
from adding at least two components. The system includes a control apparatus and a scale. The control apparatus has a memory
(permanent and/or temporary), input controls, and a display. The memory being used to store a mixture formulated from mixing
at least two components. The scale is in communication with the control apparatus. The control apparatus monitors a weight on
the scale, such that a final weight of the mixture previously prepared from mixing at least two components is stored on the
memory. In this embodiment, when an end weight of the mixture, defined to be the final weight of the mixture previously
prepared minus an amount used by a user, is positioned on the scale and when the control apparatus receives a recalculation
signal, a blending control software calculates the amount used, recalculates the mixture based on the amount used, and stores a
new mixture for subsequent use. This helps reduce and eliminates extra waste.
[94]       This system embodiment can further be defined as a method for recalculating a formula. The method would provide a
first step of providing a control apparatus having at least a memory, input controls, and a display, wherein the memory storing a
                                                                  - 13 -

mixture formulated from mixing at least two components. The next step would be providing a scale in communication with the
control apparatus, such that the method stores on the memory a final weight of a mixture previously prepared from mixing at
least two components. After use, the user would weigh on the scale an end weight of the mixture. The end weight of the mixture
defined as the final weight of the mixture previously prepared minus an amount used by a user. Finally, the method recalculates
the formula of the mixture based on the end weight of the mixture against the final weight of the mixture and stores the
recalculated formula on the memory of the control apparatus.
[95]       In an additional embodiment, there is provided a system for preparing a mixture.        The system includes a control
apparatus having at least a memory, input controls, and a display. The memory has the capacity to store at least one mixture
formulated from mixing of one or more components based on recommended formulated amounts of the one or more components.
In communication with the control apparatus is a scale monitored by the control apparatus for changes of a weight on the scale.
The control apparatus upon receiving an input for a creation of a mixture will display a formulation of the mixture indicating the
component(s) and amount(s) needed to create the mixture, and the control apparatus will further monitor changes in the weight of
the scale. Wherein, the control apparatus will adjust the formulation when a weight of a component added to the mixture is
different than the recommended formulated amount.
[96]       In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a system for the storage and for the mixing of
ingredient components to provide an operator the ability to create a mixture. The system is defined to include a plurality of
storage receptacles; each receptacle holding at least one component and each receptacle in communication with a control
apparatus. The control apparatus has at least a memory, input controls, and a display. The system improvement includes: (a) the
memory having the capacity to store and/or storing at least one formulated mixture, which lists the component(s) and amount(s)
thereof; (b) the control apparatus upon receiving an input for a creation of a mixture displays the formulated mixture indicating
the component(s) and amount(s) needed to create the mixture; and (c) an electronic locking mechanism positioned at each storage
receptacle, wherein the control apparatus upon receiving the input for the creation of the mixture is capable of sending a signal to
the electronic locking mechanism to lock and/or unlock one or more receptacles relative to the component(s) being held therein
to create the mixture.
[97]       Alternatively, each receptacle may have an opening position and a closing position. In this instances, each receptacle
having the electronic mechanism positioned at each storage receptacle is set to open and/or close the storage receptacles.
Therefore when the control apparatus receives the input for the creation of the mixture it is capable of sending a signal to the
electronic locking mechanism to open and/or close one or more receptacles relative to the component(s) being held therein to
create the mixture.
[98]       Referring now to Figure 15, there is provided in various embodiments a blending control system 600 for preparing a
hair dye mixture. The blending control system generally includes a control system having one or more of the following elements:
                                                              - 14 -

(a) a memory 602, (b) input controls 604, and/or (c) a display 606. The blending control system further includes at least one
formula 608 stored in the memory 602. The formula defines instructions of one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials
and amounts recommended for recreating a hair dye mixture.             The blending control system also includes a scale 610 in
communication (wireless or wired) with the blending control system.
[99]       The blending control system in a first aspect of the various embodiments includes custom color software 612 to permit
the user to create a custom color. The custom color software 612 upon receiving a manual input from the input control for a
creation of a hair dye custom color mixture, will prompt a user to select or enter one or more colorants and/or dye blending
materials 614 and monitors the scale for an amount corresponding to said one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials
616. The custom color software will create and store 618 a hair dye mixture formula based upon the selected or entered colorants
and/or dye blending materials and the corresponding amounts that were placed on the scale. Various other aspects and uses of
the custom color can be incorporated with the formula adjusting software used to adjust the formula of the hair dye mixture when
a weight of a colorant or dye blending material being added to the scale is different than the amount recommended in the
formula.
[100]      In a second aspect of the various embodiments, the blending control system includes validation software 620 to check
a hair dye component package against the hair dye component(s) in the formula to ensure and validate a user is accurately
recreating the hair dye mixture 622. The validation software may be used in connection with a bar-code scanner 624 to scan the
bar codes positioned on the component package or used in connection with an RFID reader 626 to read information for an RFID
tag positioned on the component package.
[101]      In a third aspect of the various embodiments, the blending control system includes salon management software 630 in
communication with to the system to exchange information on customers and formulas of hair dye mixtures associated to said
customers 632. In this aspect the blending control system could have the input control and the display in communication with the
blending control system and software for displaying the instructions on said display in response to a manual input from the input
controls and monitoring software to monitor a weight on the scale 634. The monitoring software aids in monitoring changes in
the weight on the scale such that the blending control system is able to calculate a difference between a recommended formulated
amount of a colorant or dye blending material and an actual amount of the colorant or dye blending material added to the scale.
This difference can then be measured down to a zeroed amount, with an adjustment for the weight of a receptacle, such that the
blending control system is able to indicate how much additional colorant or dye blending material is needed to be added to the
scale to reach the recommended formulated amount of the colorant.
[102]      In a fourth aspect of the various embodiments, a blending control system includes progress control software 640 to
indicate how much of one or more of the colorant(s) and/or dye blending material(s) from the hair dye mixture may be added to
or removed from the scale. The progress control software can include an analog or non-digital display representation 642 of one
                                                                - 15 -

or more of the colorant(s) and/or dye blending material(s) from the hair dye mixture, and the software capable of changing the
representation to indicate an amount being added to or removed from the scale. The representation can be a graph, such as a bar
graph, circular, pictorial, or line graph and can be color corded or black/white, or gradation; alternatively it could use sound or
other types of representations. The process control software can also include the ability to replay audible sounds 644 or lights
representing the amount dispensed of one or more of the colorant(s) and/or dye blending material(s) from the hair dye mixture,
and includes software to replay audible sounds or lights to indicate an amount being added to or removed from the scale.
[103]      In a fifth aspect of the various embodiments, the blending control system includes at least one set of customer
information stored in said memory, such that the customer information 634 is associated with the at least one formula. The
blending control system further includes software to update at least one set of customer information. And the blending control
system can be linked to the salon management software to exchange customer information.
[104]      In a sixth aspect of the various embodiments, the blending control system includes software to store in the memory a
final amount used of each of the one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials defined by the formula 650. In this aspect
the blending control system may further include comparison software 652 to track the inventory 654 of the one or more colorants
and/or dye blending materials by reducing a current inventory level of each of the one or more colorants and/or dye blending
materials by the final amount used of each of the one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials.              In addition, the
comparison software used to track inventory levels and reduce the current inventory level by an amount used during the
preparation of a hair dye mixture and/or increase the current inventory level by an amount received during a new shipment or
returns of unused ingredients. Yet still, the amount reduced can further be allowed to track if a product is thrown out, spoiled,
missing or otherwise needs to be reduced to ensure proper inventory levels. Yet as a further consideration, the amount used
during the preparation of the hair dye mixture is determined by the amount on the scale. This could also be used to compare
different stylist's, store's, or manufacturer's performances.
[105]      In a seventh aspect of the various embodiments, the blending control system has stored in said memory current
inventory levels for at least one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials and the costs associated with each one or more
colorants and/or dye blending materials. The blending control system further includes software to calculate the final cost 656 of
a hair dye mixture by monitoring the preparation of the hair dye mixture including monitoring the scale for a final amount used of
each of the colorants and/or dye blending materials defined by the formula, allocate a cost of each of used during the preparation
and calculate the final cost by adding the individual costs. Once a final usage and/or cost is determined, color usage and/or cost
can be reported by a reporting software. The reporting software will further be capable of creating reports for specified time
periods on the material usage and cost based by stylist, client, salon or region (when the software are linked to other salons),
manufacturer of a particular product or by product line, and/or chair or booth renter. The reporting software will further include
components for determining average costs per client per treatment and other operating data.
                                                               - 16-

[106]      Referring now to Figure 16, there is provided in various embodiments a blending control system 700 for preparing a
hair dye mixture. The system generally includes one or more of the following elements: (a) a memory 702, (b) input controls
704, and/or (c) a display 706. The system further includes at least one formula 708 stored in the memory 702. The formula
defines instructions of one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials and amounts recommended for recreating a hair dye
mixture. The system also includes a scale 710 in communication (wireless or wired) with the system.
[107]      The system in an eighth aspect of the various embodiments includes software that permits for formula blending and
adjustments. As mentioned above, this could include reformulating a formula based on changing a particular quantity of an
ingredient such as adjusting for adding too much or not enough of an ingredient. Separately, this could also include the ability
add or remove a particular ingredient from a formula, or swap or change a particular ingredient with another component. A
formula adjustment software 720 would receive an indication from the input control that either an additional ingredient is being
added or an ingredient from the formula is being removed 722. The formula adjustment software 720 will then adjust the final
total and/or in some circumstances may recalculate the formula to adjust for the increased batch size or strength of the mixture.
The user would then not be required to start over with a new customer mixture. In another aspect, a particular ingredient may
need to be changed or swapped out for a different ingredient 724. Changing a particular ingredient may be done because the
particular ingredient is missing from inventory. For example, if a shade of red is out of stock the stylist may know that they can
combine certain other colors for the desired effect. The formula adjustment software will adjust the final total and/or in some
circumstances may recalculate the other components of the formula to adjust for the increased batch size or strength of the
mixture.
[108]      In other aspects, the formula adjustment software 726 can be capable of converting a particular formula from one brand
of product to another brand 728. For example, if a particular mixture of colors in one brand needs to be duplicated for a different
brand, the particular ingredients may be different. A formula brand conversion would permit the operator to recreate the mixture
using different branded products. If provided with the system, once converted, the system would also control the correct
receptacle or drawer to unlock, open, and/or indicated (by LED or other means) 730. In another aspect, the formula adjustment
software 726 may include a particular manufacturers standard book of colored mixtures 732. This permits the user to start with a
base line formula that may be adjusted and customized for a particular client.
[109]      It is further noted that the blending control system has further built in a defined tolerance component 734 towards the
target total amount needed for the particular ingredient or total mixture. When adding a particular ingredient it has been found
that within a certain small tolerance of being over or under the target amount does not necessarily effect the end mixture. This
tolerance has a tendency to be about 1 - 2 percent over or under the recommended value in the formulas; however it is possible
that the tolerance level can be set by the salon, operator, manager, manufacturer of the product, or etc. To help a particular user
identify the tolerance, the progress indicator may include a Target Line 736 to which the user may attempt to achieve for a
                                                                - 17-

perfect mixture but then it may further include a Tolerance Indication 738 above and below the Target Line that the user will
identify as a region that if the ingredient weight added reaches within the Tolerance Indication, the user can move on to the next
ingredient without reformulating the entire mixture. The Tolerance Indication may be visual or audible 740 and if visual may be
represented as lines or brackets above and below the Target Line, see also Figure 22.
[110]      In a ninth aspect of the present embodiments, the blending control system can include various aspects to increase an
operator's ease of use 742.       Various technological components can be provided, such as touch screens 744 and wireless
keyboards/mouse. Employee Identification systems 750 may also be used to correctly identify an employee and provide the
employee with the appropriate access to the blending control system. Various employee identification systems may be used, such
as but not limited to magnetic card scanners; fingerprint scanners; barcode readers; password protection.             The employee
identification systems can also be used in connection with the below information management systems with its layered security
measures to correctly identify personal with specific access to certain areas in the blending control system.
[111]       Other aspects of the systems ease of use include an ability to automatically convert a product packaging units of
measurement to a single system of measurement 748. Various packages may have volume and weight in various scales. The
system having the information entered into the blending control system based on the particular product will covert the unit to a
single system of measurement used by the operator. The single system of measurement may be done as a weighted system.
Alternatively, since the progress indicator system is provided, the indicator may itself be viewed as the single unit system.
[112]       The system's ease of use can be further implemented by provided with its step by step guidance on screen instructions
and warnings if the operator is adding too much of a particular ingredient or warnings if the operator is using the incorrect
ingredient. The warnings and instructions can be augmented with the system's ability to control the opening or unlocking of a
particular storage area or bin.
[113]       In a tenth aspect of the invention, the blending control system may be further provided with an information
management structure 812. Various software components used to manage the information in the blending control system which
may or may not include information in the salon management system. As noted above the salon management system and the
blending control system may be a single system or separate systems linked or communicated together. The blending control
system 800 is generally provided for preparing a hair dye mixture. The blending control system generally includes a computer
drive system having one or more of the following elements: (a) a memory 802, (b) input controls 804, and/or (c) a display 806.
The blending control system further includes at least one formula 808 stored in the memory 802.                The formula defines
instructions of one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials and amounts recommended for recreating a hair dye mixture.
The blending control system also includes a scale 810 in communication (wireless or wired) with the system. An information
management system 812 is provided and is in communication with the blending control system 800.
                                                                - 18 -

[114]      The information management system 812 includes one or more components either used in concert or separately. A first
component of the information management system may be directed to information about the customer or client information and
their associated formulation(s). The blending control system would be able to prepare a Formula Card 814 that a customer or
stylist could use at another location. The Formula Card would help the second or subsequent stylist recreate the mixture at
another location if for example the other location was not linked to the blending control system. A second component of the
information management system 812 would include the ability to color forecast 814. Color forecasting 814 is the ability to
forecast the amount of color needed in a particular period. The forecasting can be based on a number of factors such as historical
color usage, scheduled appointments and the client history, and/or promotions done by a salon. The color or ingredients in the
formula is forecasted by reviewing the factors and generating a report that could include purchase orders.
[115]      A third component of the information management system 812 is the ability to generate purchase orders 816. Purchase
orders 816 for particular ingredients can be generated based on color usage forecasts and real-time inventory levels, which as
mentioned can be monitored and tracked by other component systems. Purchase orders 816 can also be based on reorder point
levels. With the purchase orders, the blending control system would be, able to create open order reports 818 and transmit the
orders automatically 820 to vendors via e-mail.
[116]      In a fourth component of the information management system 812, new inventory updates 822 can be obtained when a
new inventory is taken and entered into the system. Entering the inventory can be done by scanning codes or entry into the
blending control system. The new inventory received can also be compared 824 to the purchase orders and usage report to
determine the accuracy of the orders and reports.
[117]      Referring now to Figure 18, in a fifth component of the information management system 812, various Reports 830 can
be generated to help the management of the system and salon(s). With detailed records on the clients and their use of the salon
services, Reports showing the number or percentage of clients that use coloring services and the frequency of their use or absence
can be obtained 832. Reports which show a calculation of the inventory shrinkage in concert with the physical inventory can
now be obtained 834. Along with this aspect a Report on the savings due to a reduction of inventory shrinkage for a time period
can be generated 836. As well as a generated Report on the savings from the above noted waste reduction measure as compared
to a pre-defined normal amount used for a period of time 838. Reports can also be generated to help the salon determine use
charges 840, for example suggested charges can be generated for excessive amount of ingredients used, i.e. if a double or triple
batch is prepared because of the length or thickness of the hair. These reports can also be exported through an intra or internet for
a manager 842 to analyze trends over a period of time. These reports can also be consolidated amount multiple salons, regionally
or for a nationwide report.
[118]      Along with various reports, the blending control system can also include an operating statistic component 844. The
operating statistics can be based on a number of various factors either alone or in combination with each other. These factors
                                                                -19-

include an average color batch by the operator / stylist 846; average cost per client 848; comparison of color services per hour,
per appointment against default predetermined values 850; comparison of the number of single versus double color applications
852; comparison of the number of on-scalp or off-scalp applications 854; comparison on individual batch sizes to salon norms
and flag deviations 856; comparison of batch sizes deviated to pricing surcharges 858; and comparison pricing of specific
application against normal procedures 860.
[119]      Other Reports can be based and generated to provide information on a number of salons owned by a single entity. The
information can be sorted and detailed based on the aggregate of all the salons or based upon a specific city, region, or country.
[120]      Since the information management system is capable of tracking inventory Reports can be generated to help outline the
higher turn ingredients as well as show the slowing moving or dormant ingredients. Reports can also be generated to allocate
usage between normative uses for a given time period and waste over the same time period.
[121]      The blending control system can further track or create purchase incentive programs 862 by monitoring products used
by the stylists or the services provided by the stylist to provide a suggested recommendation of retail products purchased in the
store and then monitoring and tracking whether the purchase occurred.         With full client information in the blending control
system including the brand or specific ingredients used, specific promotions of retail products can be determined and
recommended to the client, as well as promotions for specific salon services that are also based on specific products purchased,
used, or applied.
[122]      Referring now to Figure 19, in an eleventh aspect of the invention, the blending control system may be further provided
with an communication and data sharing components. Various software components used to communication and share data may
or may not include information in the salon management system. The blending control system 900 is generally provided for
preparing a hair dye mixture. The blending control system generally includes a computer-driven system having one or more of
the following elements: (a) a memory 902, (b) input controls 904, and/or (c) a display 906. The blending control system further
includes at least one formula 908 stored in the memory 902. The formula defines instructions of one or more colorants and/or
dye blending materials and amounts recommended for recreating a hair dye mixture. The blending control system also includes a
scale 910 in communication (wireless or wired) with the system. An communication and data sharing system 912 is provided
and is in communication with the system 900.
[123]      In a first component of the communication and data sharing system 912 software would allow the blending control
system 900 to communicate with a main server 920 to provide updates against a manufactured and/or installed system. Updates
and upgrades 922 to the software can be done by internet login into a main server. In addition, software installation and setup
924 can also be done over the internet. The main server 920 when in communication with the blending control system 900 could
help diagnose and repair 926 any maintenance issues with the blending control system, as well as provide data backup
                                                                -20-

capabilities 928. If the systems are licensed for use, the main server could maintain the licenses which if not updated and
renewed could lock out the system for control by the salons.
[124]      In a second component, as mentioned above the blending control system and the salon management system can be
integrated or linked together to allow the sharing of information. The information shared between the two or more systems 900
could include data on the stylists, appointment information, point of sale service ticket information, and formula data for new and
existing clients, as well as modified formula information.
[125]      If multiple systems 900a, 900b, etc., are employed in a single salon or multiple salons each system can be connected to
each other to share and consolidate information. Multiple salon applications can use a local area network or a wide area network
(930). The information shared can include inventory data, cost data, usage data, employee data, customer data, and formula data.
[126]      Turning now to Figure 20, there is shown modular shelf units 1000 which can be used in connection with a hair dye
system. The modular shelf units 1000 include a plurality of shelf openings 1050 to accommodate receptacles 1100 that slide
outwardly towards the user to open. The receptacles 1100 include a glide or channel 1150 that receives opposing pins 1170 that
protrude from the front of the openings. The channel 1150 includes a curved section 1200 near the back region of the receptacle.
The curved section 1200 curves such that an end 1250 of the channel 1150 is positioned near the back lower region of the
receptacle. Thus when the receptacle is pulled out, it can swing or pivot downwardly. The drawer can have various sections
1300, 1320 to help organize and sort the product placed therein.
[127]      As further shown the receptacle can have a front lower lip region 1400 that covers a fixed indicator light 1450 or LED
positioned in the shelf openings. The front lower lip region 1400 may have transparent or translucent qualities, such that when
the receptacle is fully closed and the light is turned on, the user would be able to see the light through the front lower lip region
1400.
[128]      Referring now to Figure 21 there is shown from various components described in the present invention a blending
control system 600 is generally provided for manually preparing a hair dye mixture. The blending control system generally
includes a computer-driven system having one or more of the following elements: (a) a memory, (b) input controls 604, and/or
(c) a display 606. The blending control system further includes at least one formula stored in the memory. The formula defines
instructions of one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials and amounts recommended for manually recreating a hair dye
mixture. The blending control system also includes a scale 610 in communication (wireless or wired) with the system. The
blending control system further includes bins in communication with the blending control system. As explained above, the
receptacles may include indicators and/or locks.
[129]      It is further provided that the above noted software functions are defined to be created within a single or multiple
software components. These components can be designed to work together regardless of the software language used to create the
                                                                 -21 -

functions.   Furthermore, the software would be specifically configured to perform the functions in order to impart structural
elements into the software and the embodiments disclosed herein.
[130]      In one further embodiment of the present invention, there is provided a method for preparing a hair dye mixture, either
manually, semi-manually, or automatically as defined above. The method to be performed would use a scale and control system
in communication with each other. The control system provides for a memory and a display, with the memory containing a
formula defining instructions for blending a hair dye mixture. The instructions are displayed on the display for a stylist or user to
perform the various steps which include viewing the display of instructions and then following the instructions by adding to a
receptacle on the scale, colorant(s) and dye blending material(s) in accordance with the instructions.             The heart of the
embodiment is based on the critical fact that the stylist is using a hair color manufacturers' standardized packaging, such that non
standardized or specialized packaging of colorants and/or dye blending materials are not required. Terminology is as defined
above.
[131]      In other aspects of this embodiment, the method continues with the steps of viewing the display of an indicator of an
amount of one or more of the colorant(s) and/or dye blending material(s) which has been added to the receptacle. The indicator
further indicates pre-defined tolerances above and below a recommended amount defined by the formula. Based thereon, the
stylist adds to and/or removes from the receptacle colorant or dye blending material until the indicator shows the amount in the
receptacle is within the pre-defined tolerances. In addition, the indicator may further include lights, sounds, and/or graphics.
[132]      Other aspect of this embodiment may include the step of validating the colorant and/or dye blending material being
adding to the receptacle by comparing the hair color manufacturers' standardized packaging against the formula. The validating
step may include using a scanner to scan the hair color manufacturers' standardized packaging and checking the display for an
indication that the scanned hair color manufacturers' standardized packaging is listed by the formula. In yet other aspects, the
method may include the stylist accepting a weight of a colorant or dye blending material in the receptacle on the scale, and then
adding additional colorant(s) or dye blending material(s) to the receptacle on the scale in response to the control system
displaying an adjusted formula calculated by the control system. The adjusted formula is based on the accepted weight of the
colorant or dye blending material in the receptacle when the accepted weight is different than an a recommended amount defined
by the formula.
[133]      In addition, the stylist may verify and accept a weight of a colorant or dye blending material in the receptacle on the
scale, prior to adding subsequent colorant(s) or dye blending material(s) to the receptacle on the scale in accordance to the
formula. The stylist may also weigh the receptacle on the scale, when the receptacle holds a remaining amount of colorant and/or
dye blending material (after use). The remaining weight is defined to include a only portion of the colorant and/or dye blending
material previously prepared in accordance with the instructions. In this instance, the control system is capable of revising the
                                                                 -22-

stored instructions based on the remaining amount of colorant and/or dye blending material in the receptacle compared to an
amount of colorant and/or dye blending material previously prepared.
[134]      As outlined by the various figures, there is provided various systems and methods to perform specific functions of the
various embodiments. In one embodiment there is provided a system for preparing a hair dye mixture. The system includes a
control system having at least a memory, input controls, and a display. At least one formula is stored in the memory, and the
formula contains one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials and amounts recommended for recreating a hair dye
mixture. A scale is provided and is in communication with the control system, with         monitoring software     to   monitor a
weight on the scale. In addition, software for displaying the formula on the display in response to a manual input from the input
controls is provided. The embodiment further includes indication software configured to display an amount of the colorants(s)
and/or dye blending material(s) required to be added to the scale and further configured to indicate the recommended amounts in
comparison to the amount that has been added to the scale. Tolerance indication software is also provided and configured to
indicate predefined ranged tolerances above and/or below the recommended amounts, such that a user is able to identify whether
the amount added to the scale for a colorant and/or dye blending material is within the predefined ranged tolerances.
[135]      The tolerance indicates can be lines on a pictorial graph, or audible signals. A further warning signal can be provided
to indicate when the amount on the scale for a colorant and/or dye blending material is outside the predefined ranged tolerances.
[136]      In another embodiment there is provided for a system for preparing a hair dye mixture, the system including a control
system having at least a memory, input controls, and a display and at least one formula stored in the memory. The formula
defining instructions of one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials and amounts recommended for recreating a hair dye
mixture. Each colorant and/or blending material is separately assigned to a first product brand, such that brand selection software
can be configured to receive a manual input from the input controls to change a colorant and/or blending material from the first
product brand to a second product brand. Brand adjusting software would be configured to adjust the formula of the hair dye
mixture from the first product brand to the second product brand in response to the manual input. The brand selection software
may further be configured to receive a single manual input from the input control to change all of the colorant(s) and/or blending
material(s) from the first product brand to a second product brand, such that the brand adjusting software can adjust the formula
of the hair dye mixture from the first product brand to the second product brand in response to the manual input.
[137]      The conversion from one brand to another brand may be based on a predetermined formulated brand conversion ratio
or adjustment bracket. Once converted the adjusted formula may be stored in the memory.
[138]      In another embodiment there is provided a system for preparing a hair dye mixture. The system includes a control
system having at least a memory, input controls, and a display; along with at least one formula stored in the memory. The
formula defining instructions including one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials and amounts recommended for
recreating a hair dye mixture. The embodiment further includes software for displaying the instructions on said display in
                                                                - 23 -

response to a manual input from the input controls, and formula adjustment software configured to receive an adjustment
protocol input from the input controls, the adjustment protocol input being further defined as a change in the instructions to the
formula. The formula adjusting software is further configured to adjust the formula of the hair dye mixture when in accordance
with the adjustment protocol input such that the formula adjusting software defines an adjusted formula. The formula adjusting
software is further configured to display the adjusted formula on the display.
[139]       The adjustment protocol input can be based on a removal, addition, or substitution of one or more colorants and/or dye
blending materials. As such the system can determine is additional colorants or blending materials need to be added or removed
in response to the change.
[140]       In another embodiment of the invention there is provided a system for preparing a hair dye mixture, which includes a
control system having at least a memory, input controls, and a display and a scale in communication with the control system.
Monitoring software is provided and configured to monitor a weight on the scale along with software configured to display the
instructions on said display in response to a manual input from the input controls. The embodiment further include memory
having information stored thereon, wherein the information includes (a) at least one client and associated client data, (b) at least
one formula defining instructions of one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials and amounts recommended for
recreating a hair dye mixture, and/or (c) inventory data relating to the colorants and/or dye blending materials available for
recreating a hair dye mixture, and the information further includes an employee information and corresponding employee
identification. The embodiment is then able to include identification software configured to prevent access to the information
and/or scale, and the identification software further configured to allow access to the information and/or scale when an entered
 identification matches an employee identification.       The entered identification may be associated with one or more of the
following: a magnetic card scanner, a fingerprint scanner, a barcode reader, and a password.
 [141]      In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a system for preparing a hair dye mixture, having a
 control system having at least a memory, input controls, and a display; a scale in communication with the control system;
monitoring software configured to monitor a weight on the scale; and software configured to display the instructions on the
 display in response to a manual input from the input controls. The memory has information stored thereon, including (a) at least
 one client and associated client data, (b) at least one formula defining instructions of one or more colorants and/or dye blending
materials and amounts recommended for recreating a hair dye mixture, and/or (c) inventory data relating to the colorants and/or
 dye blending materials available for recreating a hair dye mixture.         The embodiment further includes inventory software
 configured to calculate an inventory level of the one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials by reducing a current
 inventory level by an amount used during the manual preparation of a hair dye mixture and by increasing the current inventory
 level by an amount received during a new shipment; and the inventory software further configured to receive and store an actual
 inventory level of the one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials based on a manual input and/or weight on a scale.
                                                                 - 24 -

Lastly, reporting software is provided and configured to create a report based on an inventory
shrinkage when a current calculated inventory level is compared to an actual inventory level. This can
further be based on costs such that the inventory shrinkage reports can include final costs.
[142]     In yet another embodiment there is provided a system for preparing a hair dye mixture,
having a control system having at least a memory, input controls, and a display; a scale in
communication with the control system; monitoring software configured to monitor a weight on the
scale; and memory having information stored therein. The information includes (a) at least one client
and associated client data, (b) at least one formula defining instructions of one or more colorants
and/or dye blending materials and amounts recommended for recreating a hair dye mixture, and/or (c)
cost associated with each one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials, and the information
further includes at least one employee information and corresponding employee identification.
Tracking software is provided and configured to store on the memory a final amount used of each of
the one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials defined by the formula during creation of a
hair dye mixture and an associated cost of the creation of the hair dye mixture. The tracking software
further configured to link the associated cost to an employee. Reports based on the final costs/average
costs can be generated for specified time periods. In addition, the tracking software can report on an
amount of the one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials used by an employee as well as the
remaining amounts when the mixture is weighed after application. Final costs of product used versus
amounts charged can be reviewed and charted. In addition, high use or low use materials can be
determined for stocking and ordering as well as purchase incentive programs. Generated purchasing
orders can be calculated and automatically sent to third party venders.
[143]     Furthermore, with the knowledge of which products are being used and with the system
potentially linked to the salon management portion of the system, further forecasting of the salon
needs can be determined. With appointments logged with the type of service and formulas that will be
generated, reports can be generated to determine how much of a product needs to be in stock as well
as actual inventory levels and reports on which products needs to be ordered. Generating and sending
purchase orders when needs are determined either automatically or upon reviewed and approved by
the salon manager.
[144]     From the foregoing and as mentioned above, it will be observed that numerous variations and
modifications may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concept of the
invention. It is to be understood that no limitation with respect to the specific methods and apparatus
illustrated herein is intended or should be inferred. It is, of course, intended to cover all such
modifications.
[145]     The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or
to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as, an acknowledgement or admission
or any form of suggestion that prior publication (or information derived from it) or known matter
                                                    - 25 -

forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification
relates.
[146]    Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the
exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                                                 - 26  -

The claims defining the present invention are as follows:
 1.      A system for preparing a hair dye color mixture, the system including:
         a control system having at least a memory, input controls, and a display;
         at least one formula stored in the memory, the formula defining instructions of one or more
colorants and/or dye blending materials and dispensing amounts recommended for recreating the hair dye
color mixture, and wherein each colorant and/or blending material is separately assigned to a first product
line:
         selection software configured to receive an input from the input controls to change a colorant
and/or blending material from the first product line to a second product line; and
         color matching software configured to match the color of the hair dye color mixture made from
colorants and/or dye blending materials of the first product line using colorants and/or dye blending
materials of the second product line, in response to the input.
2.       The system of claim 1, wherein the selection software is further configured to receive a single
manual input from the input control to change all of the colorant(s) and/or blending material(s) from the
first product line to a second product line, and wherein the color matching software is further configured
to adjust the formula of the hair dye mixture from the first product line to the second product line in
response to the manual input.
3.       The system of claims 1 or 2, wherein the color matching software is further configured to adjust
the formula of the hair dye mixture from the first product line to the second product line based on a
predetermined formulated product line conversion.
4.       The system of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the color matching software is further configured
to store in said memory an adjusted formula.
5.       The system of claim 4, further including software for displaying the adjusted formula on said
display.
6.       The system of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the formula is obtained from a plurality of
formulas created under a manufacturer standard book of hair dye mixtures.
7.       A system for preparing a hair dye color mixture, the system including:
         a control system having at least a memory, input controls, and a display;
                                                    - 27 -

         at least one formula stored in the memory, the formula defining instructions including one or
more colorants and/or dye blending materials and dispensing amounts recommended for recreating the
hair dye color mixture;
         display software configured to present the instructions on the display in response to receiving
input from the input controls; and
         color matching software configured to receive an adjustment protocol input from the input
controls, the adjustment protocol input being further defined as a change in a product line of colorants
and/or dye blending materials used in the formula, the color matching software further configured to
match the color of the hair dye color mixture made from colorants and/or dye blending materials of a first
product line using colorants and/or dye blending materials of a second product line;
         wherein the color matching software is further configured to display the adjusted formula and the
individual batch size on the display.
8.       The system of claims 7, wherein the adjustment protocol input controls the formula adjusting
software to adjust the formula based on a removal of one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials.
9.       The system of any one of claims 7 or 8, wherein the adjustment protocol input controls the
formula adjusting software to adjust the formula based on an addition of one or more new colorants
and/or dye blending materials.
10.      The system of any one of claims 7 to 9, wherein the adjustment protocol input controls the
formula adjusting software to adjust the formula based on a change of one of the colorants and/or dye
blending materials with a second colorant and/or dye blending material.
11.      A method for preparing a hair dye color mixture, the method comprising:
         providing a control system in communication with each other, and having the control system
provide for at least a memory, input controls, and a display;
         storing in said memory at least one formula, the formula defining instructions of one or more
colorants and/or dye blending materials and dispensing amounts recommended for recreating the hair dye
color mixture, and wherein each colorant and/or blending material is separately assigned to a first product
line;
         selecting, using the input controls, to change a colorant and/or blending material from the first
product line to a second product line; and
                                                    - 28 -

         matching the color of the hair dye color mixture made from colorants and/or dye blending
materials of the first product line using colorants and/or dye blending materials of the second product line,
in response to the manual input.
 12.     The method of claim 11. further including adjusting the entire formula from a first product line to
the second product line in response to a single manual input from the input control to change all of the
colorant(s) and/or blending material(s) from the first product line to a second product line.
 13.     The method of claims 11 or 12, wherein the adjusting of the formula from the first product line to
the second product line is based on a predetermined formulated product line conversion.
 14.     The method of claim 13, further including storing an adjusted formula on said memory.
15.      A method for preparing a hair dye color mixture, the method comprising:
         providing a control system having at least a memory, input controls, and a display;
         storing in the memory at least one formula, the formula defining instructions of one or more
colorants and/or dye blending materials and dispensing amounts recommended for recreating the hair dye
color mixture;
         displaying, on the display, the instructions on the display in response to receiving input from the
input controls;
         matching the color of the hair dye color mixture in response to a command to change a product
line of colorants and/or dye blending materials used in the formula, wherein the matching is performed by
duplicating the color of the hair dye color mixture made from colorants and/or dye blending materials of a
first product line using colorants and/or dye blending materials of a second product line; and
         displaying the matched colorants and/or dye blending materials of the second product line and the
individual batch size on the display.
 16.     The method of claim 15, wherein the command to change the formula includes removing one or
more colorants and/or dye blending materials.
17.      The method of claims 15 or 16, wherein command to change the formula includes adding one or
more colorants and/or dye blending materials.
18.      The method of any one of claims 15 to 17, wherein command to change the formula includes
changing one or more colorants and/or dye blending materials with a second colorant and/or dye blending
material.
                                                     - 29 -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
