                                             Abstract
          A sterile aqueous composition suitable for use as an MRI contrast agent includes 100 to
600 mM ascorbate; and 100-600 mM sodium, meglumine, or a combination thereof. The
composition preferably has an osmolarity of 200 to 1400 mOsm/L.
3549334vl

                ASCORBATE FORMULATIONS AND METHODS OF USE
                                     AS CONTRAST AGENTS
 5                                        Related Applications
              This application claims the benefit of United States Provisional Patent Applications
    Serial No. 62/234,986, filed September 30, 2015, and Serial No. 62/291,138, filed February 4,
    2016, the disclosures of both of which are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. This
    application is an Australian divisional patent application of both PCT/US2016/054481 and
 0  PCT/US2016/054478 and the contents of both PCT applications are incorporated by reference
    herein in their entirety.
                                          Field of the Invention
              The present invention concerns compositions useful for parenteral administration of
 5  ascorbate and radiological uses thereof.
                                      Background of the Invention
              Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) produces exquisite renderings of human anatomy and
    pathology at high spatial resolution. To increase diagnostic sensitivity and specificity for MRI,
 '0 such as with imaging for cancer, infection, neurological and cardiovascular diseases, contrast
    material is often administered intravenously before and/or during imaging to improve signal.
              The most common MRI contrast material is based on molecular complexes containing the
    paramagnetic metal gadolinium (Gd). Gd is a heavy metal that is found in nature only in
    combined (salt) form. In water-soluble salts it is highly toxic, but chelated Gd has reduced
25  toxicity. In the U.S.,     all nine MRI contrast agents approved by the Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA) are Gd-based. Gd possesses strong "paramagnetism" that results in a
    locally increased MRI signal on Ti-weighted images. However, Gd-based contrast agents can
    cause a rare but severely debilitating condition called nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF), a
    syndrome involving widespread fibrosis of the skin, joints, eyes, and internal organs. The World
30  Health Organization and FDA have issued restrictions on the use of these Gd agents in patients
    with renal insufficiency/failure,   with the FDA mandating a "black box" warning on all
                                                -1
    3549334vl

    commercial contrast media containing Gd. As a consequence, millions of patients in the U.S.,
    and many more worldwide, are no longer able to receive contrast material for MRI, severely
    limiting detection and characterization for several diseases. Additionally, in 2015 the FDA issued
    a drug safety communication indicating the agency is investigating the risk of brain deposits
 5  following repeated use of Gd-based contrast agents for MRI due to recent studies in people and
    animals demonstrating that Gd can remain in the brain, even in individuals with normal kidney
    function.
             Other paramagnetic complexes, used more rarely either as investigational or as "off
    label," are usually based on large iron oxide-based nanoparticles developed and marketed as
 0  intravenous iron replacement therapy (e.g., FERAHEME@ (ferumoxytol) injection). The use of
    these complexes for MRI is limited, however, by their large molecular size, which confines these
    agents to the subject's blood pool until they are finally cleared by the reticuloendothelial system
    (i.e., macrophages, liver, spleen).
             U.S. Patent Application Publication 2014/0154185 to Van Zijl et al. discusses the use of
 5  parenteral glucose to enhance MRI. See also Yadav NN, Xu J, Bar-Shir A, Qin           Q,  Chan KW,
    Grgac K, Li W, McMahon MT, van Zijl PC, Natural D-glucose as a biodegradable MRI contrast
    agent for detecting cancer. Magn Reson Med. 2012 Dec;68(6):1764-73; Yadav NN, Xu J, Bar
    Shir A, Qin   Q, Chan KW, Grgac K, Li W, McMahon MT, van Zijl PC, Natural D-glucose as a
    biodegradable MRI relaxation agent. Magn Reson Med. 2014 Sept;72(3):823-28.
 0O        There remains a need for alternative/additional contrast agent compositions useful for MRI
    scanning technologies.
                                        Summary of the Invention
             Provided herein are compositions useful in performing magnetic resonance imaging
25  (MRI) including ascorbate (Vitamin C) as a contrast agent for the detection and characterization
    of perfusion, metabolism, and oxidative stress in human and non-human tissues, without the need
    for radioactivity or chemical labeling.
             In some embodiments, a sterile aqueous composition, which may be suitable for use as an
    MRI contrast agent, is provided, said composition comprising: 100-600 mM ascorbate; and 100
30  600 mM sodium, meglumine, or a combination thereof (e.g., provided as meglumine ascorbate,
    sodium ascorbate, or a combination thereof) (e.g., 100-300 mM ascorbate) (e.g., wherein said
                                                -2
    3549334vl

    composition comprises meglumine ascorbate and sodium ascorbate in a molar or millimolar
    (mM) ratio of from 10:90, 20:80, 30:70, or 40:60, up to 90:10, 80:20, 70:30, or 60:40
    (meglumine ascorbate : sodium ascorbate)).
              In some embodiments, the composition has an osmolarity of 200-1400 mOsm/L (e.g.,
 5  200-1200 mOsm/L).
              In some embodiments, the composition further comprises carbonate and/or phosphate.
              In some embodiments, the composition further comprises a reducing and/or a non
    reducing sugar.
              In some embodiments, the composition further comprises a stability agent (e.g., a
 0  chelator such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA)).
              In some embodiments, the composition is provided in unit dosage form.
              Also provided is a powder composition comprising: ascorbate; sodium, meglumine, or a
    combination thereof (e.g., sodium ascorbate, meglumine ascorbate, or a combination thereof);
    optionally, carbonate and/or phosphate; and optionally, a reducing or non-reducing sugar. In
 5  some embodiments, the composition is in unit dosage form. In some embodiments, the powder
    composition, upon addition of a sterile liquid carrier (e.g., water, normal saline, lactated Ringers,
    or other aqueous vehicle suitable for parenteral drug delivery), is suitable to use in enhancing a
    magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) image of a body or body region such as an organ or organ
    region in a subject.
 10           Upon parenteral administration, time-dependent magnetic resonance (MR) signal changes
    are detected in tissues and/or fluids where ascorbate is taken up and/or passes through. These
    MRI signal changes are detectable using routine spin echo or gradient echo-based T2-weighted
    MRI sequences and are quantifiable with T2 mapping. Other, less common acquisition
    techniques sensitive to spin-spin relaxation may also be used to encode MR signals.
25            Also provided herein are methods of enhancing an MRI image of a body or body region
    in a subject, such as an organ or organ region, which method includes parenterally administering
    (e.g., intravenous, intraperitoneal, intraarterial, intraosseous, or intrathecal administration) a
    parenteral ascorbate formulation to said subject in an MRI image-enhancing amount; and then
    generating, by MRI of the subject, an image of said body or body region, whereby the ascorbate
30  or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof enhances the MRI image.
                                                 -3
    3549334vl

              In some embodiments, the MRI image is generated during, or up to 5, 10, 30, 40, 60, 90 or
    120 minutes after, or up to 1, 2, 3, or 4 hours after, the parenterally administering of the
    parenteral ascorbate formulation.
              Further provided is the use of an ascorbate formulation as taught herein for carrying out a
 5  method as taught herein, or for the preparation of a medicament or imaging agent for carrying out
    a method as taught herein.
           The present invention is explained in greater detail in the drawings herein and the
    specification set forth below. The disclosures of all United States patent references cited herein
    are to be incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
 0
                                      Brief Description of the Drawin2s
              Figure 1. Ascorbate and dismutation of the ascorbate radical. A, Ascorbate is a di
    acid, however at physiological pH of 7.4, 99% of ascorbate is present as its mono anion (AscH).
    Ascorbate radical (Asc--) is present at equilibrium (but also at much lower concentrations) with
 5  oxidized and reduced forms of ascorbate. B, The dismutation of Asc- is the principal route of its
    transformation, with a rate constant    (kobs) that falls into the "intermediate" proton exchange rate
    on the NMR timescale. This rate constant can increase by a factor of 10 in the presence of proton
    exchange catalysts such as phosphate (Bors W, Buettner GR. (1997) The vitamin C radical and its
    reactions in Vitamin C in Health and Disease,ed. by L. Packer and J. Fuchs, Marcel Dekker, Inc.,
 .0 New York, Chapter 4, pp75-94).
              Figure 2. T 2 relaxivity (r 2  =   mM~1sec-)    of sugars, sugar alcohols, and ascorbate
    Comparisons include both mono and disaccharides. As discussed in the text, note the diminishing
    contrast effect at higher concentration, which is believed to be secondary to self-association of
    like moieties and reduced proton exchange.
25            Figure 3. In vitro ("phantom") experiments on ascorbate spin-spin relaxation (T 2
    weighted) MRI contrast. A, shows quantitative T2 mapping in 5 phantoms with progressively
    increasing ascorbate concentration. Statistically significant "negative T2 contrast" (signal loss) is
    seen as low as 1-5 mM as compared to control (phosphate-buffered saline) with conventional fast
    spin echo (FSE) acquisition. Sensitivity is therefore at the lower end of expected tissue/cellular
30  concentrations following pharmacological doses of ascorbate in high uptake tissues (e.g., tumors
    and brain, 10-30 mM). This result also does not take into account any synergistic effects from
                                                   -4
    3549334vl

    tissue oxidative substrates or physiological exchange catalysts. B, shows the synergistic effect of
    H20   2 on ascorbate T2 enhancement. H 2 0 2 , which rises to 100-200 micromolar in brain and
    tumors in vivo following parenteral ascorbate, produces a marked synergism on the T2 contrast
    effect from ascorbic acid. The synergistic effect slowly diminishes over time in phantoms over 30
 5  min as shown, but will be sustained in vivo as long as H2 0 2 is produced following ascorbate
    administration. C, demonstrates the influence of pH on ascorbate's T2 effect, which is maximized
    at neutral/physiological pH (7.0-7.4). This result is consistent with prior studies on the rate
    kinetics of ascorbate disproportionation with its radical and oxidized form at equilibrium (Figure
    1). D, reveals a marked synergistic effect when ascorbate is salified (salted) with meglumine (N
 0  methyl-D-glucamine), an amine sugar derivative of sorbital that is commonly employed as an
    excipient in several FDA-approved drug and contrast formulations.
              Figure 4. Comparison of Ascorbate as Na or Meglumine Salt. Solutions are prepared
    with physiological concentrations of PO 4 (2 mM ) and HCO3- (25 mM) buffers.
              Figure 5. Na Ascorbate + Physiological Exchange Catalysts. Each solution is set at
 5  neutral (pH   = 7.0) in deionized water. Concentrations of physiological exchange catalysts are the
    same as the in vivo in serum and extracellular space: PO 4   =  2 mM, glucose  = 5 mM, and HCO3
    is 25 mM.
              Figure 6. Exchange Synergism Between Na Ascorbate/Meglumine                and Glucose.
    Solutions are compared in the setting of physiological buffers PO 4 (2 mM) and HCO3- (25 mM)
 '0 that also contribute as exchange catalysts.
              Figure 7. Exchange synergism of Na Asc/Meglumine with sugar alcohols, mono- and
    disaccharides. All solutions are prepared in co-presence of 2 mM PO 4 and 25 mM HCO3-.
              Figure   8.  Rescaled   data without      control   for  exchange    synergism    of Na
    Asc/Meglumine with sugar alcohols, mono- and disaccharides. All solutions are prepared with
25  2 mM PG 4 and 25 mM HCO3-.
              Figure 9. In vivo ascorbate T2 contrast changes following high dose parenteral
    ascorbate (2g/kg, right IJ i.v. injection.) A, shows a conventional single slice axial FSE T2WI
    image through the midbrain of a normal C57 black mouse, and the two images on the right
    demonstrate a 'first pass' extraction of contrast change during and following ascorbate
30  administration i.v. T2 signals in brain tissue are acquired immediately following, and 10 minutes
    after ascorbate administration, then subtracted from the T2 brain signals acquired before
                                                 -5
    3549334vl

    ascorbate administration. Since ascorbate produces a decrease in signal intensity, subtraction
    from the higher signal pre-dose scan results in a net positive 'map' of flow-through perfusion
    (blood flow) through brain tissue. At 10 minutes, the perfusion effect has nearly resolved and
    early signal intensity changes related to tissue uptake are beginning to be observed. B, shows the
 5  signal changes due to tissue uptake of high-dose ascorbate. Color-lute maps of signal intensity are
    not subtracted from the pre-dose scan and therefore show the expected decreases in T2 signal
    over time, maximized between 30-60 min in normal C57 mice.
              Figure 10. Ascorbate T2 enhancement in a rodent model of neocortical spreading
    depression (SD). In the illustrated experiment, the lower row of images shows a tiny craniectomy
 0  with gelfoam (red arrow) soaked in a high concentration of potassium chloride (KCl), which
    diffuses locally into the adjacent parietal cortex. The craniectomy site is 1 mm posterior to
    bregma, a skull landmark representing the posterior third of the underlying brain. The above two
    rows show T2 images and quantitative color lute T2 maps of signal change in rodent brain that
    are 3 and 4 mm anterior to bregma, that is, distant from the SD induction site. T2 signal changes
 5  in the anterior slices demonstrate clear T2 asymmetry in the right cerebral cortex as compared to
    the left (again, SD remains confined to the right hemisphere). These marked cortical signal
    changes are consistent with the known hypermetabolic activity that occurs with SD, as also
    observed with    18F-FDG  PET, and with direct microdialysis and metabolomic determinations. Of
    note, the opposite observation (focally increased T2 signal) is seen directly under the craniectomy
 ,0 site itself (row three), consistent with localized edema (increased free water) at the site of KCl
    infusion.
              Figures 11A-11B. Perfusion and viability cardiac imaging with parenteral ascorbate.
    Figure 11A depicts the two primary imaging planes, coronal and axial, for rat heart imaging at
    7T. Figure 11B shows transient decrease in T2 signal intensity throughout the left ventricle with
25  initial bolus of ascorbate injection i.v.
              Figure 12. T2 contrast changes in guinea pigs following i.v. administration of three
    different formulations of ascorbate. Figure 12A, Fast spin echo (FSE) T2 images before and
    after 60 min slow infusion of ascorbate show dramatic signal intensity differences throughout the
    brain parenchyma.       Figure 12B-C shows and C, normalized signal intensity changes and
30  quantitative relaxivity measurements are shown for both guinea cerebral cortex (Cx) and basal
    ganglia (BG) after administration of three different ascorbate formulations.
                                                 -6
    3549334vl

 5                        Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
             The present invention is now described more fully hereinafter with reference to the
   accompanying drawings, in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may,
   however, be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the
   embodiments set forth herein; rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will
 0 be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the
   art.
             As used herein, the singular forms "a," "an" and "the" are intended to include plural
   forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the
   terms "comprises" or "comprising" specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps,
 5 operations, elements, components and/or groups or combinations thereof, but do not preclude the
   presence or addition of one or more other features, integers, steps, operations, elements,
   components and/or groups or combinations thereof.
             As used herein, the term "and/or" includes any and all possible combinations or one or
   more of the associated listed items, as well as the lack of combinations when interpreted in the
 O alternative ("or").
             Unless otherwise defined, all terms (including technical and scientific terms) used herein
   have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
   invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms, such as those defined in commonly
   used dictionaries, should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning
25 in the context of the specification and claims and should not be interpreted in an idealized or
   overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.
            Ascorbate. Ascorbate (also known as "ascorbic acid," "L-ascorbic acid" or "Vitamin C")
   is a naturally-occurring organic compound and an essential nutrient, with important properties as
   an antioxidant and co-factor in at least eight enzymatic reactions, including several collagen
30 synthesis reactions that, when dysfunctional, result in the most conspicuous symptoms of scurvy.
   Most mammals make ascorbic acid in the liver, where the enzyme L-gulonolactone oxidase
   converts glucose to ascorbic acid. In humans, higher primates, guinea pigs and most bats,
                                                -7
   3549334vl

    however, a mutation results in low or absent L-gulonolactone oxidase expression so that
    ascorbate must be consumed in the diet (Lachapelle, M. Y.; Drouin, G. (2010). "Inactivation
    dates of the human and guinea pig vitamin C genes". Genetica 139 (2): 199-207). In all animal
    species,   L-ascorbic acid/ascorbate is the most abundant intracellular antioxidant, with
 5  intracellular concentrations capable of reaching 10-30 mM in tumors, brain cells, and some other
    tissues. Those tissues that accumulate over 100 times the level in blood plasma of vitamin C
    include the adrenal glands, pituitary, thymus, corpus luteum, and retina. Those with 10 to 50
    times the concentration include brain, spleen, lung, testicle, lymph nodes, liver, thyroid, small
    intestinal mucosa, leukocytes, pancreas, kidney, and salivary glands (Hediger MA (May 2002).
 0  "New view at C". Nat. Med. 8 (5): 445-6).
             Dietary excesses of vitamin C are not absorbed, and excesses in the blood are rapidly
    excreted in the urine. Vitamin C exhibits remarkably low toxicity, with an LD 50 in rats generally
    accepted at ~ 11.9 grams per kilogram of body weight. The mechanism of death from such doses
    (1.2% of body weight, or 0.84 kg for a 70 kg human) is unknown, but may be mechanical rather
 5  than chemical ("Safety (MSDS) data for ascorbic acid". Oxford University. October 9, 2005.
    Retrieved February 21, 2007). The LD 50 in humans is uncertain given the lack of any accidental
    or intentional poisoning death data. The rat LD 50 is, therefore, used as a guide for human toxicity.
             At physiological pH, 99% of ascorbate is present as the mono anion (Fig.1A). The
    chemistry and therefore imaging properties of vitamin C are dominated by this moiety. As a
 .0 donor antioxidant, the mono anion donates a hydrogen atom (H- or H++ e-) to an oxidizing radical
    to produce a resonance-stabilized tricarbonyl ascorbate free radical, Asc- (Fig. 1B). The
    dismutation reaction (Fig. IC) of Asc- back to reduced or oxidized ascorbate is the principal
    route of elimination in vitro. This process is supplemented in vivo by enzymes that aid in
    ascorbate recycling (May JM, Qu ZC, Neel DR, Li X (May 2003). "Recycling of vitamin C from
25  its oxidized forms by human endothelial cells". Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1640 (2-3): 153-61).
    Dismutation of the radical to either ascorbate or dehydroascorbate occurs via loss or gain of
    hydrogen, which serves as either the electron carrier or the more conventional cation. Also, the
    rate constant of ascorbic radical dismutation is 105-106 M         Is,   so that hydrogen exchange
    accompanying dismutation also occurs at the same rate. On the NMR timescale, these
30  "intermediate" exchange rates are optimal for altering 1H spin-spin relaxation.
                                                -8
    3549334vl

              Parenteral Formulations of Ascorbate. Ascorbate for parenteral administration may
    be provided in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier (e.g.,             sterile water, endotoxin-free
    water, or pyrogen-free water; sterile, endotoxin-free         or pyrogen-free saline, etc.)      as a
    formulation suitable for parenteral administration. The term "pharmaceutically acceptable" as
 5  used herein means that the compound or composition is suitable for administration to a subject to
    achieve the treatments described herein, without unduly deleterious side effects in light of the
    severity of the disease and necessity of the treatment.
              The formulations may be presented in unit/dose or multi-dose containers, for example
    sealed ampoules and vials, and may be stored in a dried/powdered/freeze-dried lyophilizedd)
 0  condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier, for example, saline or water-for
    injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions may be
    prepared from sterile powders, granules and tablets. For example, in one aspect of the present
    invention, there is provided an injectable, stable, sterile composition comprising ascorbate in a
    unit dosage form in a sealed container. The ascorbate may be provided in the form of a
 5  lyophilizate which is capable of being reconstituted with a suitable pharmaceutically acceptable
    carrier to form a liquid composition suitable for injection thereof into a subject.
              Examples of suitable formulations include, but are not limited to, a sterile aqueous
    solution of ascorbic acid in water for injection, containing 10, 20, 30, 40, or 50, to 80, 90, 100,
    150 or 200 mg/mL ascorbate or a salt thereof (e.g., sodium salt, meglumine (N-methyl-D
 '0 glucamine) salt, combinations thereof, etc.). In some embodiments, formulations may include 10,
    20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, or 100 mM, to 150, 200, 250, 300, 350, 400, 450, 500, 550, 600,
    650, 700, 750, or 800 mM ascorbate or a salt thereof (e.g., sodium salt, meglumine (N-methyl
    D-glucamine) salt, combinations thereof, etc.). For example, formulations may include from 100
    to 700 mM, or from 200 to 650 mM, or from 300 to 600 mM, or from 400 to 550 mM, ascorbate
25  or a salt thereof. The ascorbate concentration may be adjusted as needed depending on the route
    of administration (e.g., intravenous administration versus direct administration into a localized
    body region or compartment).
              In some embodiments, the pH is adjusted to approximately 7 (e.g., pH of from 6.5 to 7.5)
    (e.g., with sodium bicarbonate and/or sodium hydroxide).
                                                 -9
    3549334vl

             Formulations suitable for parenteral administration may include a stabilizing agent.
   Example stabilizing agents include chelators such as EDTA (e.g., EDTA disodium). Formulations
   may also include pH buffers such as bicarbonate (HCO3-) and/or phosphate (P0 4 ).
             Formulations according to some embodiments may include a sugar, such as a reducing or
 5 non-reducing sugar. A "reducing sugar" is an open-chain sugar having a free aldehyde group or a
   free ketone group, which includes all monosaccharides and some disaccharides, oligosacchrides
   and polysaccharides. Example reducing sugars include, but are not limited to, glucose, galactose,
   glyceraldehyde, fructose, ribose, xylose, lactose, maltose, etc. A "non-reducing sugar" is a sugar
   without a free aldehyde group or free ketone group. Example non-reducing sugars include, but
 0 are not limited to, sucrose, trehalose, etc.
             The spin-spin exchange catalysts that may be used in the ascorbate formulations as taught
   herein may include, but are not limited to, meglumine (N-methyl-D-glucamine), reducing sugars
   (e.g., glucose, galactose, glyceraldehyde, fructose, ribose, xylose, lactose, maltose, combinations
   thereof, etc.), and non-reducing sugars (e.g., sucrose, trehalose, combinations thereof, etc.).
 5           Formulations suitable for parenteral administration may have an osmolarity in the range
   of from 200 to 1200 or 1400 mOsm/L. In some embodiments, the formulation has an osmolarity
   of from 200, 300, 400, 500 or 600 to 700, 800, 900, 1000, 1100, 1200, 1300, or 1400 mOsm/L.
             In some embodiments, the formulation is suitable for injection into an artery or vein,
   and/or into a body region such as an organ or organ region. In some embodiments, the
 0 formulation is suitable for intravenous infusion. In some embodiments, the formulation is suitable
   for intraarterial infusion. In some embodiments, the formulation is suitable for intrathecal
   infusion.
             In some embodiments, the formulation is de-oxygenated. Methods of de-oxygenation of
   aqueous compositions are known, e.g., preparing the formulation under, or purging with, an inert
25 gas, such as nitrogen. See, e.g., U.S. Patent Application publication 2014/0048290 to Bodemann.
             In some embodiments, the formulation is provided as a dried/powdered/lyophilized
   composition of meglumine ascorbate, sodium ascorbate, or a combination of these salts, with or
   without exchange catalysts, chelators, etc., which may be reconstituted in sterile aqueous media
   (e.g., water, normal saline, lactated Ringers, or other accepted aqueous vehicle used for parenteral
30 drug delivery) at point of care just prior to administration. Suitable dried formulations may
                                                - 10
   3549334vl

    include, but are not limited to, 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50, 55, 60, 65, 70, 75, 80, 85, 90,
    95 or 100 grams of ascorbate of a salt thereof.
              In some embodiments, the formulation is provided in a container suitable for light
    sensitive liquid compositions, such as an opaque plastic or glass container (e.g., a high density
 5  polyethylene container, a plastic or glass container coated with black polyvinyl chloride, etc.),
    amber glass, etc. See, e.g., U.S. Patent No. 8,309,191 to Wang et al.; U.S. Patent Application
    publication 2004/0048206 to Miyake et al.
              In some embodiments, the formulation is provided in unit dosage form suitable for
    parenteral administration for MRI imaging. As non-limiting examples, unit dosage forms
 0  suitable for intravenous administration may be: 1) 0.25 g/min, up to 60 min, up to 15 grams; 2)
    0.5 g/min, up to 60 min, up to 30 grams; 3) 1.0 g/min, up to 60 min, up to 60 grams; or 4) 1.5
    g/min, up to 60 min, up to 90 grams.
              Methods of use. As noted above, the parenteral ascorbate compositions as taught herein
    are useful for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to provide a contrast agent for the detection and
 5  characterization of perfusion, metabolism, and/or oxidative stress in human and non-human
    tissues, without the need for radioactivity or chemical labeling.
              Ascorbate, especially in the presence of, and co-formulated with, spin-spin exchange
    catalysts (for example, simple sugars, sugar alcohols or amino acids) is a safe and biodegradable
    MRI contrast agent that requires neither the use of metal-based (e.g., gadolinium or iron) contrast
 .0 material nor ionizing radiation. The technique enables assessment of tissue perfusion as well as
    high-resolution molecular characterization of tissue viability and metabolism that is analogous to
    18
       F-FDG PET. The latter is possible by virtue of ascorbate's uptake (via dehydroascorbate) into
    cells through the same glucose transport mechanisms that take up 18F-FDG (i.e., GLUT 1 and 3
    transporters) (Rumsey SC, Kwon 0, Xu GW, Burant CF, Simpson I, Levine M (July 1997).
25  "Glucose transporter isoforms GLUTI and GLUT3 transport dehydroascorbic acid". J. Biol.
    Chem. 272 (30): 18982-9).
              "Parenteral administration" as used herein includes, but is not limited to, intravenous,
    subcutaneous,      intramuscular,   intraperitoneal,   intraarterial, intraosseous,    intrathecal   or
    intraventricular administration, e.g., through injection or infusion. As a non-limiting example,
30  intraperitoneal or other parenteral administration may be used where intravenous (i.v.) access is
                                                 - 11
    3549334vl

    difficult for a subject (e.g., low blood pressure), or the route of administration otherwise would
    result in a suitable MRI image.
              In some embodiments the MRI is performed during, or up to 5, 10, 30, 40, 60, 90 or 120
    minutes after, or up to 1, 2, 3, or 4 hours after, parenterally administering the ascorbate
 5  composition.
              Subjects benefitting from the present invention are, in general, mammalian subjects,
    including both human subjects and animal subjects (e.g., dogs, cats, rabbits, cattle, horses, etc.),
    for diagnostic, therapeutic, research or veterinary purposes. Subjects may be male or female and
    may be any age, including neonate, infant, juvenile, adolescent, adult, and geriatric subjects.
 0            MRI is known, and may be carried out by commercially available equipment, and by
    techniques known in the field. See, e.g., S. Bushong and G. Clarke, Magnetic Resonance
    Imaging: Physical and Biological Principles (Mosby, 4th Ed. 2014). In some embodiments, the
    MRI is perfusion (e.g., blood flow) imaging. In some embodiments, the MRI is metabolism
    imaging. Metabolism imaging may be used as a diagnostic biomarker analogous to         18F FDG PET,
 5  including, but not limited to, identification/characterization of tumors or dysfunctional tissues
    demonstrating hyper- or hypo-metabolism.
              "Body or body region" that may be imaged with MRI as taught herein includes the body
    or any region of the body of a subject, such as an organ or organ system, soft tissue, bone, etc., or
    any portion thereof. Examples of body regions include, but are not limited to, head, neck, thorax,
 '0 abdomen, pelvis, limb(s), muscle, fat, other soft tissues, bone, etc. Examples of organs include,
    but are not limited to, adrenal gland, pituitary, thymus, corpus luteum, retina, brain, spleen, lung,
    testicle, lymph nodes, liver, thyroid, small intestinal mucosa, leukocytes, pancreas, kidney,
    salivary gland tissue, heart, etc.
              "Enhancing" an MRI image as used herein is inclusive of facilitating the MRI
25  visualization by enhancing the contrast of structures, tissues or fluids in an MRI signal.
              An "MRI contrast agent" is a substance that can enhance the contrast of structures, tissues
    or fluids within the body during an MRI scan. Examples include, but are not limited to,
    paramagnetic contrast agents such as Gd-containing agents or manganese chelates, and
    superparamagnetic agents such as iron platinum particles. See also U.S. Patent Application
30  Publication Nos. 2014/0350193 to Axelsson et al.; and 2014/0234210 to Lin et al.
                                                 - 12
    3549334vl

           Potential applications for ascorbate MRI include several clinical scenarios where current
   medical practice often utilizes PET scanning but where improvements in methodology using MRI
   as an alternative scanning technology will potentially yield further clinical benefit. These
   scenarios include diagnostic studies for cancer, neurological disease (e.g., dementia, TBI and
 5 epilepsy) and cardiovascular imaging. Heart studies using Tc99m-labeled agents (e.g., Tc-99m
   sestimibi or "Cardiolite") represent a particularly noteworthy potential diagnostic application in
   need of an alternative approach given the projected contraction of supply of Tc-99m. Myocardial
   perfusion and viability imaging with Tc-99m-related agents is an essential and widely performed
   procedure, yet to date no commercially feasible solution has been developed to replace these Tc
 0 99m-dependent agents.
             MR imaging and clinical application of contrast media. Clinical magnetic resonance
   imaging (MRI) generates high-resolution images of the body through the acquisition of proton
   (IH) nuclear magnetic resonsnace (NMR) signals from water and macromolecules in tissue. For
   "Ti-weighted" MR images, signal intensity increases in regions where longitudinal relaxation rate
 5 (spin lattice relaxation rate, 1/Ti) increases. With "T2 -weighted" MRI, signal intensity decreases
   when transverse relaxation rate (spin-spin relaxation rate, 1/T2) increases. Both Ti and T2
   weighted images are routinely acquired in virtually all clinical MRI studies.
             Intravenous contrast agents are routinely administered in MRI to further increase 1/T1 or
   1/T 2 , in an effort to better delineate diseased tissue from normal tissue, improve anatomical
 O definition, and enhance characterization of physiological or pathological function. Almost all
   currently approved MRI contrast agents are based on chelates of the lanthanide metal Gd, with a
   small subset of angiographic and perfusion studies conducted using iron-oxide materials (e.g.,
   Feraheme) off-label in patients with renal insufficiency/failure. Commercial Gd-based materials
   are used most commonly to increase 1/T1 in diseased tissue, where contrast material is prone to
25 accumulate.
             For tissue perfusion     determinations   with  MRI, Gd-based      agents  or iron-oxide
   nanoparticles may be used, with acquisition strategies based on either 1/Ti or 1/T 2 contrast,
   although 1/T 2 contrast approaches are increasingly favored. Perfusion imaging is currently used
   clinically to characterize tumor aggressiveness, tumor response to therapy, and tissue viability in
30 heart, brain and other organs.
                                                - 13
   3549334vi

             Without wishing to be bound by theory, the mechanism of ascorbate signal change
    without paramagnetism, which is also described as "T2-weighted contrast," is based on
    enhancement of the water proton (lH) spin-spin relaxation rate 1/T2 (or reciprocally, spin-spin
    relaxation time, T2), as solvent water protons are exchanged with hydroxyl protons on ascorbate
 5  molecules. The effect of proton exchange on T2 contrast is amplified further by the dismutation
    reaction of the ascorbate radical at physiological pH. Ascorbate oxidation and ascorbate radical
    dismutation are, in turn, driven by the co-presence of oxidizing substrates such as hydrogen
    peroxide (H20 2 ) and/or hydrogen ("proton") exchange catalysts.
             Ascorbate transport and excretion. Ascorbic acid is absorbed in the body by both active
 0  transport and simple diffusion. The two major active transport pathways are sodium-ascorbate co
    transporters (SVCTs) and hexose transporters (GLUTs). SVCT1 and SVCT2 import the reduced
    form of ascorbate across the plasma membrane (Savini I, Rossi A, Pierro C, Avigliano L, Catani
    MV (April 2008). "SVCT1 and SVCT2: key proteins for vitamin C uptake". Amino Acids 34 (3):
    347-55), whereas GLUTI and GLUT3 glucose transporters transfer the oxidized form,
 5  dehydroascorbic acid (Rumsey SC, Kwon 0, Xu GW, Burant CF, Simpson I, Levine M (July
    1997). "Glucose transporter isoforms GLUT1 and GLUT3 transport dehydroascorbic acid". J.
    Biol. Chem. 272 (30): 18982-9). Although dehydroascorbic acid concentrations are low in plasma
    under normal conditions, the oxidized molecule is absorbed at much higher rates across GLUT1
    and GLUT3 than the reduced form is across the SVCTs. When ascorbate concentrations are
 .0 pharmacologically elevated, dehydroascorbate concentration also increases, enabling marked
    absorption where GLUT transporters exist in high copy such as in the brain (and blood brain
    barrier) and tumor cells. Once transported, dehydroascorbic acid is rapidly reduced back to
    ascorbate.
             Ascorbate concentrations over the renal re-absorption threshold pass freely into the urine
25  and are excreted with a half-life of about 30 minutes. At high dietary doses (corresponding to
    several hundred mg/day in humans) the renal resorption threshold is 1.5 mg/dL in men and
    1.3 mg/dL in women (Oreopoulos DG, Lindeman RD, VanderJagt DJ, Tzamaloukas AH,
    Bhagavan HN, Garry PJ (October 1993). "Renal excretion of ascorbic acid: effect of age and
    sex". J Am Coll Nutr 12 (5): 537-42). Ascorbate that is not directly excreted in the urine or
30  destroyed by other body metabolism is oxidized by L-ascorbate oxidase and removed.
                                               - 14
    3549334vl

             Ascorbate is understood to have a pharmacokinetic profile that resembles vancomycin.
   Biodistribution of oral ascorbate is under tight control, with plasma concentrations rarely
   exceeding 200 tM even at oral doses more than 100 times the recommended daily allowance
   (Levine M, Conry-Cantilena C, Wang Y, Welch RW, Washko PW, Dhariwal KR, Park JB,
 5 Lazarev A, Graumlich JF, King J, Cantilena LR (April 1996). "Vitamin C pharmacokinetics in
   healthy volunteers: evidence for a recommended dietary allowance". Proc.Nati. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.
   93 (8): 3704-9). Ascorbate administered intravenously, however, bypasses these tight control
   systems, with plasma concentrations of 10 mM or higher achievable. Plasma concentrations
   higher than 10 mM are safely sustained in humans for up to 4 hours with remarkably low toxicity
 0 (Hoffer LJ., Levine M., Assouline S., Melnychuk D., Padayatty SJ., Rosadiuk K., Rousseau C.,
   Robitaille L., and Miller WH., Jr., Phase I clinical trial of i.v. ascorbic acid in advanced
   malignancy. Ann Oncol 19: 1969-1974, 2008).
             The present invention is explained in greater detail in the following non-limiting
 5 examples.
                                                In Vitro lhamples
                      Ascorbate Enhancement of Spin-Spin Relaxation Rate, 1/T 2.
             Previous studies have reported on the NMR/MRI contrast effects on T2 -weighting arising
 0 from exchange of bulk water protons with mobile protons of low molecular weight solutes and
   macromolecules (e.g., -NH 2 , -OH, -SH, -NH). The contrast effect on l/T         2 from this proton
   exchange is described as follows:
                                    1       1
                                        --       + fcR(P,6ow,     k, T21, T)
                                    T2     T 2,
25
             Bulk water is related to a and exchangeable protons (e.g., from an ascorbate OH group) to
   b. fcR is a closed function with five parameters, derived from Carver and Richards and refined by
   Hill et al. (Carver, J. P.; Richards, R. E. J. General 2-Site Solution For Chemical Exchange
   Produced Dependence Of T2 Upon Carr-Purcell Pulse Separation J. Magn. Reson. 1972, 6, 89
30 105; Hills, B. P.; Wright, K. M.; Belton, P. S. N.M.R. studies of water proton relaxation in
                                                  - 15
   3549334v1

   Sephadex bead suspensions         Mol. Phys. 1989, 67, 1309-1326). For the hydroxyl protons of
   ascorbate, Pb would be the fraction of exchangeable protons, k is the exchange rate between
   exchangeable protons and water protons, &6aiis the chemical shift between hydroxyl and bulk
   water protons, and T2b is the local spin-spin relaxation time of hydroxyl protons. r is the inter
 5 pulse (90 -1800) spacing in the T 2-weighted acquisition sequence.
          An essential but often neglected parameter influencing proton exchange on T 2 contrast is
   the role of exchange catalysis (Liepinsh E and Otting, G Proton exchange rates from amino acid
   side chains - implications for image contrast. Magn Reson Med. 1996 35(1): 30-42). The rate
   constant k for proton exchange between OH or NH groups and water can be described by
 0
                                   k = k.[H+] + k[OH-] +            ke catalystp
   Ka, Kb and Kc denote the exchange rate constants due to catalysis by H*, OH- and other exchange
   catalysts, respectively. The exponent y is 1 or 2 depending on the mechanism of a given exchange
 5 catalyst. The rate constants Ka and Kb can be calculated in turn by:
                                                            1
                                          k-b = kD 1 + 10KD-pKA
   where KD is the rate constant for diffusion controlled encounter of the proton donor and acceptor
 0 ( 101 mol-s-1), and pKD and pKA are the pK values of the proton donor and acceptor. Although
   pKH30+ and pKOH- = 15.7, Ke is more challenging to predict because of the nonlinear dependence
   of proton transfer on catalyst concentration. Nonetheless, efficient exchange catalysis at neutral
   pH is attained with at least a moderate difference between pKD - pKA               and a significant
   concentration of catalytically active acidic or basic forms of the exchange catalysts at
25 physiological pH.
             Thus H 20, despite its high concentration, is a relatively poor proton donor and therefore
   an inefficient exchange catalyst at physiological pH because the pKA of the primary species
   (H30      and OH-) is 15.7. On the other hand, recognized exchange catalysts in physiological
   conditions include organic phosphates, carbonates (e.g., bicarbonate, HCO3), and molecules with
30 carboxyl and amino groups (Liepinsh E and Otting, G Proton exchange rates from amino acid
   side chains - implications for image contrast. Magn Reson Med. 1996, 35(1): 30-42).
                                               -16
   3549334v1

              As shown below, another powerful catalyst not previously recognized is ascorbate, which
    possesses one hydroxyl group having a favorable pKA         = 6.75 at the 4 position, as well as an
    equilibrium disproportionation reaction with a pKA    = 7.0. Thus, ascorbate has the potential to not
    only 'self-catalyze' but also to be an efficient catalyst of proton exchange for basic hydroxyl
 5  groups on sugars and other macromolecules.
              Figure 2 shows a comparison on T2 enhancement of pure solutions of several sugars,
    sugar alcohols, and ascorbate in deionized water at pH 7. Data are provided from quantitative T2
    mapping at 7T using a RARE FSE protocol with at least 6 different echo times, at solute
    concentrations of 10 and 20 mM. As shown, T2 relaxivity is roughly a function of the number of
 0  exchangeable     OH protons available on each molecule, with disaccharides, as predicted,
    producing proportionally greater contrast effect than monosaccharides. Noteworthy is the
    nonlinear dependence on solute concentration, with relaxivity enhancement decreasing as
    concentration is increased, a phenomenon that is likely related to self-association of sugars in
    pure solutions. The latter is particularly relevant to observations described below, where overall
 5  T2 effects are instead synergistically enhanced when ascorbate and sugars are combined together
    at higher total solute concentrations. Formulations          combining ascorbate with mono or
    disaccharides provide a means to deliver higher concentrations of both species in order to
    increase T2 contrast effects for MR imaging.
              Figure 3A depicts a more detailed demonstration of T2 effects of pure ascorbate solutions
 '0 at different concentrations at neutral pH. Figure 3B reveals the marked enhancement of the T2
    effect when ascorbate is in the presence of only         tM (i.e., physiological) concentrations of
    hydrogen peroxide (H 2 0 2 ), which drives oxidation to dehydroascorbate as well as ascorbate
    radical dismutation. Although H2 0 2 is also considered an exchange catalyst in its own right, the
    dramatic effect observed on ascorbate-mediated 1/T 2 enhancement when H 2 0 2 is present at 100
25  fold less concentration than ascorbate suggests that proton exchange from H2 0 2 -driven ascorbate
    oxidation/dismutation, rather than direct exchange from OH ascorbyl protons, is an important
    contributory mechanism responsible for T 2 changes. Further evidence of the contribution from
    dehydroascorbate oxidation/dismutation on proton exchange is depicted in Figure 3C showing
    that the 1/T 2 enhancement effect is by far the most significant at neutral pH where the reaction
30  rate of ascrobate-dehydroascorbate dispropotionation is also greatest.
                                                - 17
    3549334vl

              Data in Figure 3D provide the first suggestion that exchange catalysis between ascorbate
    and an acceptor/donor molecule with an appropriate pK can markedly drive 1/T2 enhancement
    change. Data here compare solutions of ascorbate (10 mM) as sodium salt and as meglumine
    (aminosugar) salt. Here the T2 contrast effect (T 2 relaxation in ms) is approximately 4 times
 5  greater with meglumine ascorbate as compared to either meglumine or ascorbate alone in water
    at neutral pH.
              It was subsequently investigated whether the impressive synergistic effect of meglumine
    with ascorbate was dependent on chemical association with ascorbate as a salting cation (even
    though in theory the two moieties should be fully dissociated in water). Figure 4 reveals that
 0  proton exchange is actually synergized when the 'salting function' is performed by Na+ cations,
    presumably leaving the amine group in addition to the basic OH groups of meglumine to
    participate in exchange catalysis with ascorbate. Note that here control T 2 relaxation (ms) values
    (T 2 = 840 ms) are not shown to better illustrate differences between experimental groups.
              Figure 5 summarizes T 2 relaxation data from a series of experiments looking at the
 5  influence of various physiological exchange catalysts on the contrast effect from ascorbate. Using
    known serum and extracellular concentrations of PO 4     = 2 mM, glucose  =  5 mM, and HCO3- of 25
    mM, with ascorbate at 10 mM, T2 relaxation of each of these moieties was examined individually
    and in combination. As shown, the T 2 relexation effect of ascorbate alone or with PO 4 in water is
    modest but in the presence of physiological concentrations of either glucose or HCO3- is
 '0 dramatically increased, with 10 mM ascorbate, (a plasma concentration easily and safely
    achieved with parenteral administration) producing a remarkable 50% change in T2 relaxation.
    The greatest enhancement is seen with ascorbate in the presence of glucose, HCO3-, and PO 4
    together at known concentrations in vivo. Thus, by simply administering ascorbate i.v., the T2
    enhancement effect of ascorbate in vivo will be much greater than what might be expected after
25  only looking at ascorbate alone in phantom studies without physiological exchange catalysts
    present.
              Also predicted from the experiments above is the possibility that formulation of ascorbate
    with other sugars that are not normally present in vivo may further catalyze the ascorbate contrast
    effect. Figure 6, for example, demonstrates additional synergism when meglumine is added to a
30  solution of sodium ascorbate at equivalent concentration (20 mM) and into a background of 2
    mM P0 4 , 25 mM HCO3-. Data show comparison with or without physiological concentrations (5
                                                - 18
    3549334vl

    mM) of glucose, as well as the effect of meglumine alone added to the physiological catalysts. As
    seen the greatest contrast effect is observed when all moieties are combined. One implication
    therefore is that higher contrast effects may be achievable by combining different exchange
    catalysts with each other, thus limiting the concentration of any one exogenously administered
 5  species.
              Figure 7 summarizes data extending this concept, testing potential synergisms when Na
    ascorbate and meglumine are formulated with other mono and disaccharides and sugar alcohols.
    As shown the contrast effects are dramatic with each potential formulation. In Figure 8, the
    control solution (2 mM PO 4 and 25 mM HCO3) to better illustrate the differences in contrast
 0  changes between groups. The strongest effect thus observed is when ascorbate and meglumine
    are combined with the common disaccharide sucrose, thus suggesting a promising candidate
    formulation (i.e., ascorbate/ meglumine/ sucrose) for MRI using only moieties that may all be
    safely administered parenterally.
 5                                           In vivo Example 1
                              Normal brain perfusion and metabolic change
              Figure 9. In vivo ascorbate T2 contrast changes following high dose parenteral
     ascorbate (2g/kg, right IJ i.v. injection.) A, shows a conventional single slice axial FSE T2WI
     image through the midbrain of a normal C57 black mouse, and the two images on the right
 10  demonstrate a 'first pass' extraction of contrast change during and following ascorbate
     administration i.v. T2 signal in brain tissue immediately following, and 10 minutes after,
     ascorbate administration is acquired and then subtracted from the T2 brain signal acquisition
     pre-ascorbate administration. Since ascorbate produces a decrease in signal intensity, subtraction
     from the higher signal pre-dose scan results in a net positive 'map' of flow-through perfusion
25   (blood flow) through brain tissue. At 10 minutes, the perfusion effect has nearly resolved and
     early signal intensity changes related to tissue uptake are beginning to be observed. B, show the
     signal changes due to tissue uptake of high-dose ascorbate. Color-lute maps of signal intensity
     are not subtracted from the pre-dose scan and therefore show the expected decreases in T2 signal
     over time, maximized between 30-60 min in normal C57 mice.
30
                                             In vivo Example 2
                                                - 19
    3549334vl

                                   Focal cerebral hypermetabolism in
                           association with neocortical spreading depression
             Figure 10. Ascorbate T2 enhancement in a rodent model of neocortical spreading
   depression. Spreading depression (SD) is an experimentally reproducible pathophysiological
 5 phenomenon of CNS tissues originally described 60 years ago by Loao. After a focal region of
   cortex reaches a critical threshold of ionic perturbation, a massive spreading wave of cellular
   depolarization may begin and spread through gray matter tissue, but remain confined to the gray
   matter zone in which it was induced, not crossing white matter pathways. If the induction
   mechanism (e.g., a local high concentration of applied potassium chloride) is continuous to the
 0 same region, these waves of SD will recur once every 8-10 minutes and last over a 2-3 hour
   period. Marked changes in brain metabolism accompany SD, and, since no histologically
   detectable neuronal injury is present after SD, these metabolic changes parallel metabolic fluxes
   in non-ischemic, hyperexcitable brain tissue such as epileptogenic foci.
              In the above experiment, the lower row of images shows a tiny craniectomy with
 5 gelfoam (red arrow) soaked in a high concentration of KCl, which diffuses locally into the
   adjacent parietal cortex. The craniectomy site is 1 mm posterior to bregma, a skull landmark
   representing the posterior third of the underlying brain. The above two rows show T2 images and
   quantitiative color lute T2 maps of signal change in rodent brain that are 3 and 4 mm anterior to
   bregma, that is, distant from the SD induction site. T2 signal changes in the anterior slices
 0 demonstrate clear T2 asymmetry in the right cerebral cortex as compared to the left (again, SD
   remains confined to the right hemisphere). These marked cortical signal changes are consistent
   with the known hypermetabolic activity that occurs with SD, as also observed with           1 F-FDG
   PET, and with direct microdialysis and metabolomic determinations. Of note, the opposite
   observation (focally increased T2 signal) is seen directly under the craniectomy site itself (row
25 three), consistent with localized edema (increased free water) at the site of KCl infusion.
30                                          In vivo Example 3
                               Cardiac perfusion and metabolic imaging
                                               - 20
   3549334vl

            Figure 11. Perfusion and viability cardiac imaging with parenteral ascorbate. A,
  depicts the two primary imaging planes, coronal and axial, for rat heart imaging at 7T.
  Retrospective gating with respiratory coupling was employed to collect images at 7T. The
  acquisition sequence is moderately T2-weighted and can be further optimized to enhance the
5 contrast effect. B, shows transient decrease in T2 signal intensity throughout the left ventricle
  with initial bolus of ascorbate injection i.v. After the initial bolus for first pass flow or 'perfusion
  imaging' quantitative T2 maps using variable flip angles show gradual T2 contrast change in
  heart tissue reflecting ascorbate uptake. Only viable, metabolically active cells will take up
  ascorbate.
0
                                               -21
  3549334vl

                                                  Example 4
                   Table 1: Example parenteral formulations useful for MRI imaging
            T2 W contrast agent       Cation                     Exchange catalyst    Osmolarity
     I      ascorbate 100-600 mM sodium 100-600 mM*                                   200-1200 mOsm/L
     II     ascorbate 100-600 mM meglumine             100-600   meglumine            200-1200 mOsm/L
                                      mM                         100-600 mM
     III    ascorbate 100-600 mM sodium 250-300 mM;              meglumine       100- 200-1200 mOsm/L
                                      N-methyl-D-glucamine       300 mM
                                      250-300 mM
     IV     ascorbate 100-300 mM sodium 100-300 mM               meglumine       100- 200-1200 mOsm/L
                                                                 300 mM
    V       ascorbate 100-300 mM sodium 100-300 mM               reducing      sugars 200-1400 mOsm/L
                                                                 100-300 mM
    VI      ascorbate 100-300 mM sodium 100-300 mM               non-reducing         200-1400 mOsm/L
                                                                 sugars      100-300
                                                                 mM
    VII     non-reducing     sugars                              meglumine 0.0-1.0 200-1400 mOsm/L
            0.1-1.0 M                                            M
    VIII reducing sugarsb 0.1-                                   meglumine            200-1400 mOsm/L
            1.0 M                                                0.0-1.0 M
 5           * sodium may be provided, e.g., as NaOH or NaHCO 3 .
             a non-reducing sugars include, e.g., sucrose, trehalose
             b reducing sugars include, e.g., glucose, galactose, glyceradledyde, fructose, ribose,
   xylose, lactose, maltose
10
                                                  Example 5
                 Example preparation of parenteral formulation useful for MRI imaging
             Formulation II above is prepared in the following manner: Into 500 mL sterile water are
15 added 50 g of ascorbic acid (568 mM) and 55.4 g N-methyl-D-glucamine (568 mM). Stir until
   solution clears. mOsm/L ~1100. pH ~ 7.0. To promote long-term stability, add 0.0250% EDTA
   disodum, prepare in de-oxygenated solution under nitrogen blanket and under light-sensitive
   conditions.
                                                 -22
   3549334vl

                                                In vivo Example 6
                                T2 contrast changes in guinea pigs following
                 intraveneous administration of three different formulations of ascorbate
              We examined T2 contrast changes in whole brains of lightly anesthetized guinea pigs at
 5  7T. Since guinea pigs share humans' inability to synthesize ascorbate endogenously, MRI effects
    in this model may be more predictive of MRI changes in patients. Ascorbate was administered
    parenterally via femoral or jugular vein access using controlled infusion for a total dose of 2g/kg
    over 60 minutes. MRI was performed for 90 mintues.
              Figure 12A shows Fast spin echo (FSE) T2 images before and after 60 min slow infusion
 0  of ascorbate show dramatic signal intensity differences throughout the brain parenchyma.
              In Figure 12B and Figure 12C, normalized signal intensity changes and quantitative
    relaxivity measurements are shown for both guinea cerebral cortex (Cx) and basal ganglia (BG)
    after administration of three different ascorbate formulations: (1) 100% sodium ascorbate; (2)
    50% sodium ascorbate and 50% meglumine ascorbate; and 3) 100% meglumine ascorbate. In
 5  Figure 12B, signal intensity changes are greatest at each time point during and following
    administration of the second formulation (2) consisting of 50% Na AA: 50% Meg AA, with
    observed cortical FSE T2 intensity decreases exceeding 40%. Calculated T2 relaxivity values in
    Figure 12C also show a greater than 10% from baseline with formulation (2), with maximal
    values statistically greater than either formulation (1) or (3). On conventional FSE T2 weighted
 '0 images, signal intensity changes with Meg AA (3) are also noted to be greater than those
    observed with sodium ascorbate (1) at nearly every time point, however T2 relaxivity calculations
    do not show statistical differences between these latter two formulations.
              The foregoing is illustrative of the present invention, and is not to be construed as limiting
    thereof. The invention is defined by the following claims, with equivalents of the claims to be
25  included therein.
                                                   - 23
    3549334vl

THAT WHICH IS CLAIMED IS:
          1. A sterile aqueous composition suitable for use as an MRI contrast agent, said
composition comprising:
          100-600 mM ascorbate; and
          100-600 mM sodium, meglumine, or a combination thereof
          wherein said composition has an osmolarity of 200-1400 mOsm/L.
          2. The composition of claim 1, wherein said composition comprises meglumine,
optionally in combination with sodium (e.g., wherein said composition comprises meglumine
ascorbate and sodium ascorbate in a molar or millimolar (mM) ratio of from 10:90, 20:80, 30:70,
or 40:60, up to 90:10, 80:20, 70:30, or 60:40 (meglumine ascorbate:sodium ascorbate)).
          3. The composition of claim 1 or 2, wherein said composition further comprises
carbonate and/or phosphate.
          4. The composition of claim 1 to 3, wherein said composition further comprises a
reducing sugar.
          5. The composition of claim 1 to 4, wherein said composition further comprises a non
reducing sugar.
          6. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said composition has an
osmolarity of 200-1200 mOsm/L.
          7. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said composition has a pH of
from 6.5 to 7.5.
          8. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein said composition further
comprises a stability agent (e.g., a chelator such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA)).
                                             - 24
3549334vl

          9. The composition of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein said composition is provided in
unit dosage form.
          10. The composition of claim 9, wherein said unit dosage form comprises from 10 to 100
grams of ascorbate.
          11. A powder composition comprising:
          ascorbate;
          sodium, meglumine, or a combination thereof;
          optionally, carbonate and/or phosphate; and
          optionally, a reducing or non-reducing sugar,
          said composition suitable for use, upon addition of a sterile liquid carrier, in enhancing a
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) image of a body or body region such as an organ or organ
region in a subject.
          12. The composition of claim 11, wherein said composition comprises meglumine,
optionally in combination with sodium (e.g., wherein said composition comprises meglumine
ascorbate and sodium ascorbate in a molar or millimolar (mM) ratio of from 10:90, 20:80, 30:70,
or 40:60, up to 90:10, 80:20, 70:30, or 60:40 (meglumine ascorbate:sodium ascorbate)).
          13. A method of enhancing a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) image of a body or
body region such as an organ or organ region in a subject, comprising:
          parenterally administering the sterile aqueous composition of any one of claims 1 to 10 to
said subject in an MRI image-enhancing amount; and then
          generating, by MRI of the subject, an image of said body or body region,
          whereby said MRI image in enhanced.
          14.     The method of claim 13, wherein said body region is a head, neck, thorax,
abdomen, pelvis, limb(s), muscle, fat, or bone.
                                              - 25
3549334vl

          15. The method of claim 13, wherein said organ comprises an adrenal gland, pituitary,
thymus, corpus luteum, retina, brain, spleen, lung, testicle, lymph nodes, liver, thyroid, small
intestinal mucosa, leukocytes, pancreas, kidney, or salivary gland tissue.
          16. The method of claim 13, wherein said body region is a brain.
          17. The method of claim 13, wherein said body region is a heart.
          18. The method of any one of claims 13 to 17, wherein said administering step is carried
out by intravenous administration such as intravenous injection.
          19. The method of any one of claims 13 to 17, wherein said administering step is carried
out by intraperitoneal administration such as intraperitoneal injection.
          20. The method of any one of claims 13 to 19, wherein said image comprises a T2
weighted image.
          21. The method of any one of claims 13 to 20, wherein said image comprises a
metabolism image (e.g., a tumor metabolism image or a brain metabolism image).
          22. The method of any preceding claim, wherein said image comprises a perfusion image
(e.g., a cardiovascular perfusion image).
          23. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the generating is performed during, or
up to 5, 10, 30, 40, 60, 90 or 120 minutes after, or up to 1, 2, 3, or 4 hours after, parenterally
administering the sterile aqueous composition.
          24.    Use of a sterile aqueous composition of any one of claims 1 to 10 for carrying out
a method of any one of claims 13 to 23, or for the preparation of a medicament or imaging agent
for carrying out a method of any one of claims 13 to 23.
                                            - 26
3549334vl

          25.  Use of ascorbate or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for carrying out a
method, or for the preparation of a medicament for carrying out a method, of enhancing a
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) image of a body or body region such as an organ or organ
region in a subject, the method comprising:           parenterally administering ascorbate or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to said subject in an MRI image-enhancing amount; and
then generating, by MRI of the subject, an image of said body or body region, whereby said
ascorbate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof enhances the MRI image.
          26.  The use of claim 25, wherein said body region is a head, neck, thorax, abdomen,
pelvis, limb(s), muscle, fat, or bone.
          27. The use of claim 25, wherein said organ comprises an adrenal gland, pituitary,
thymus, corpus luteum, retina, brain, spleen, lung, testicle, lymph nodes, liver, thyroid, small
intestinal mucosa, leukocytes, pancreas, kidney, or salivary gland tissue.
          28. The use of claim 25, wherein said body region is a brain.
          29. The use of claim 25, wherein said body region is a heart.
          30. The use of any one of claim 25 to 29, wherein said ascorbate or pharmaceutically salt
thereof is administered in an amount of from 0.02, 0.1, 0.2 or 0.5 grams per kilogram subject
body weight, up to 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40 grams per kilogram subject body weight.
          31. The use of any one of claim 25 to 30, wherein said administering step is carried out by
intravenous administration such as intravenous injection.
          32. The use of any one of claim 25 to 31, wherein said administering step is carried out
by intraperitoneal administration such as intraperitoneal injection.
          33. The use of any one of claim 25 to 32, wherein said image comprises a T2 weighted
image.
                                             - 27
3549334vl

          34. The use of any one of claim 25 to 33, wherein said image comprises a metabolism
image (e.g., a tumor metabolism image or a brain metabolism image).
          35.  The use of any one of claim 25 to 34, wherein said image comprises a perfusion
image (e.g., a cardiovascular perfusion image).
          36. The use of any one of claim 25 to 35, wherein the generating is performed during, or
up to 5, 10, 30, 40, 60, 90 or 120 minutes after, parenterally administering ascorbate or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
          37. The use of any one of claim 25 to 36, wherein said ascorbate or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is sodium ascorbate, meglumine ascorbate, or a mixture thereof (e.g.,
meglumine ascorbate and sodium ascorbate in a molar or millimolar (mM) ratio of from 10:90,
20:80, 30:70, or 40:60, up to 90:10, 80:20, 70:30, or 60:40 (meglumine ascorbate:sodium
ascorbate)).
          38. A method of enhancing a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) image of a body or
body region such as an organ or organ region in a subject, comprising:
          parenterally administering ascorbate or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to said
subject in an MRI image-enhancing amount; and then
        generating, by MRI of the subject, an image of said body or body region,
          whereby said ascorbate or pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof enhances the MRI
image.
          39. The method of claim 38, wherein said body region is a head, neck, thorax, abdomen,
pelvis, limb(s), muscle, fat, or bone.
          40. The method of claim 38, wherein said organ comprises an adrenal gland, pituitary,
thymus, corpus luteum, retina, brain, spleen, lung, testicle, lymph nodes, liver, thyroid, small
intestinal mucosa, leukocytes, pancreas, kidney, or salivary gland tissue.
                                             -28
3549334vl

          41. The method of claim 38, wherein said body region is a brain.
          42. The method of claim 38, wherein said body region is a heart.
          43. The method of claim 38 to 42, wherein said ascorbate or pharmaceutically salt thereof
is administered in an amount of from 0.02, 0.1, 0.2 or 0.5 grams per kilogram subject body
weight, up to 5, 10, 20, 30, or 40 grams per kilogram subject body weight.
          44. The method of any one of claim 38 to 43, wherein said administering step is carried
out by intravenous administration such as intravenous injection.
          44. The method of any of claim 38 to 43, wherein said administering step is carried out by
intraperitoneal administration such as intraperitoneal injection.
          45. The method of any of claim 38 to 44, wherein said image comprises a T2 weighted
image.
          46. The method of any of claim 38 to 45, wherein said image comprises a metabolism
image (e.g., a tumor metabolism image or a brain metabolism image).
          47.  The method of any of claim 38 to 46, wherein said image comprises a perfusion
image (e.g., a cardiovascular perfusion image).
          48. The method of any of claim 38 to 47, wherein the generating is performed during, or
up to 5, 10, 30, 40, 60, 90 or 120 minutes after, parenterally administering ascorbate or
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
          49.    The method of any of claim 38 to 48, wherein said ascorbate or pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof is sodium ascorbate, meglumine ascorbate, or a mixture thereof (e.g.,
meglumine ascorbate and sodium ascorbate in a molar or millimolar (mM) ratio of from 10:90,
                                            - 29
3549334vl

20:80, 30:70, or 40:60, up to 90:10, 80:20, 70:30, or 60:40 (meglumine ascorbate:sodium
ascorbate)).
                                      -30
3549334vl

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
