                                            ABSTRACT
The guardrail, which may take the form of various types of guardrails, is noteworthy in that
it includes an impact detector/indicator, for indicating the location of the guardrail involved
in an impact or accident and also for notifying the accident and the place where it occurred
to a traffic control station or to public assistance personnel. The detector/indicator includes
a convex protective plate (2) attached to the front of the guardrail (1) with which it is used,
said plate (2) protecting a connection box (3) and a tube (4) so as together to create a
means for detecting and communicating the impact that occurred, also having an indicator
light (5) for flagging up the impact, said indicator (5) being positioned on a support plate (6)
secured above the protective plate (2).

                                             1
         AN IMPACT DETECTION-SIGNALLING DEVICE FOR A ROADSIDE
                                        BARRIER
 5                               DIVISIONAL PRIORITY
           The present application is a divisional application of AU 2013380602, the
   entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                   TECHNICAL FIELD
10         The present invention relates to traffic protection barriers for roads, that
   have an impact detection-signalling device.
           The technology seeks to warn the emergency services of an impact or
   accident occurring at a specific point on a public road provided with a traffic
   protection barrier equipped with the detection-signalling device relating to the
15 invention and also signal to other drivers and other people the fact that an
   impact or accident has occurred involving the traffic protection barrier.
           The detection-signalling device is applicable to any type of traffic
   protection barrier or fence, whether concrete, metal, wood, plastic or other
   material regardless of its shape or configuration.
20         The technology is equally effective in any type of barrier intended for
   implementation of the detector, which has been conceived and built to
   substitute for the classic metal crash barriers with or without protection for
   motorcyclists or those made of concrete that are mounted laterally alongside
   roads and which serve as protection for the vehicle, preventing them from falling
25 down an embankment in case of carelessness, accident, etc.
                                     BACKGROUND
           Known traffic protection barriers that are installed on public roads and
   motorways have a disadvantage in that, should an impact or accident occur at a
30 specific point on the public road or motorway where a barrier has been installed,
   the accident or impact can only be detected by the motorists passing this place
   at that time, there is no instantaneous warning given to public personnel or the
   emergency services, nor signalling that an accident or impact has occurred at
   this point.
35         The normal type of barrier is the classic crash barrier made of corrugated
   sheet metal fixed by bolts to posts anchored vertically into the ground; on the
   other hand concrete barriers are made of reinforced concrete blocks that are

                                              2
   also anchored to the road surface using metal abutments.
            These barriers have disadvantages such as their rigidity, which in the
   case of light impacts can significantly damage a vehicle; and on the other hand,
   if they are impacted by a motorcyclist they can cause fatal injuries in the worst
 5 cases or at least severe traumatic injuries to a motorcyclist involved in an
   accident.
                           SUMMARY OF THE TECHNOLOGY
            The proposed barrier seeks to ameliorate one or more of the problems
10 described above.
            In accordance with one aspect of the invention, there is provided an impact
   detection-signalling device, which can be installed in barriers made of concrete,
   metal, plastic or any other material, the impact detection-signalling device
   comprising a protection plate that is fixed using an appropriate element to the
15 front of the traffic protection barrier to which it is applied, the protection plate
   housing a junction box with an internal tube that establishes the detection,
   monitoring and communication system with a traffic control centre or emergency
   services personnel, the impact detection-signalling device further including a
   signal light on a support plate, the signal light disposed above the protection
20 plate.
            In some embodiments, the fixing of the convexly curved protective plate
   and the support for the signal light can all be performed using screws,
   compressed air nail gun or any other appropriate system.
            In some embodiments the convexly curved protective plate can be
25 curved, trapezoidal, rectangular or any other configuration that can be deformed
   by an impact and establish the activation of the elements for detecting and
   signalling an impact.
            Embodiments of the technology have a detection-signalling device which
   is applicable in any type of traffic protection barrier, that is, all those used
30 conventionally, whether for roads for cars, motorcycle or lorry lanes and roads
   for all types of vehicle in general.
            Advantageously, this allows a system to be established that is capable of
   detecting impacts produced by a vehicle against a traffic protection fence,
   activating a danger signalling system that is integrated into the fence as well as
35 communicating with the emergency services that an accident has occurred in a
   specific, determined place where the previously described detection-signalling
   device is located.

                                               3
           Under the detector's sealed junction box there is an interior tube whose
   function is to protect the relevant cabling used and even be the means for
   detecting the impact itself, so that the integrated assembly contains the means
   for monitoring the impact, a means for bidirectional communication with a traffic
 5 control centre or emergency service personnel and the means for triggering the
   warning signal light.
           In an alternative embodiment and when specifically dealing with the
   invention's application to concrete barriers, a enveloping plate is planned for the
   side and upper surfaces of said barrier, the plate is hollow and includes the
10 corresponding detector and externally the impact signalling light. In this case
   the external surface of the plates include means for coupling together the plates
   of a number of units provided in a continuous or contiguous stretch of concrete
   barrier.
           As an option it is also anticipated that the barrier could incorporate an
15 LCD or LED screen or similar that could be used to display warning signs
   regarding specific conditions that may occur at certain moments, such as, for
   example, warning of accidents, signalling areas where there is danger of ice or
   fog, etc.
           Similarly, the barrier could also incorporate a surface destined for the
20 inclusion of advertisements.
           When the barrier is of the type formed by an undulating body fixed to the
   classic vertical posts anchored to the ground, it is planned to be materialised in
   recycled rubber. This quality provides a greater elasticity to the assembly,
   minimising the damage to vehicles and significantly reducing serious or fatal
25 injuries to motorcyclists.
           More specifically, it consists of a body of recycled rubber with a pair of
   undulations corresponding with its upper half, that contain an embedded metal
   structure made of metal splints that correspond with the fence's two
   undulations, these splints are also located in a part near the lower extreme to
30 provide the barrier with sufficient rigidity to support impacts and fulfil its planned
   function, while by its very nature it will be flexible enough to absorb a significant
   part of a vehicle's impact energy, and more importantly, avoid serious or even
   fatal injuries in motorcyclists.
           The barrier is complemented by a rear connecting splint and a rear
35 bracket for fixing to the corresponding vertical ground-anchored posts, using
   mounting bolts and shear bolts.
           A means for locking and fixing through the rear joining splint, attachment

                                               4
   bracket or appropriate means to this effect is provided at the ends of the rubber
   element constituting the barrier and coinciding with the ends of the splints that
   constitute the interior metallic structure.
 5                         DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            To complement the description being made and in order to aid a better
   understanding of the invention's characteristics the present specification is
   accompanied by, as an integral part thereof, a figure in which, in an illustrative
   and non-limiting manner, is shown the following:
10          Figure 1.- Shows a side view of the traffic protection barrier provided with
   an impact detection-signalling device, in this case materialised in concrete.
            Figure 2.- Shows a front view of the assembly represented in the
   previous figure.
            Figure 3.- Shows a side detail of the protection panel that is used in the
15 barrier's detection-signalling device, in this embodiment with a trapezoidal
   configuration as an alternative to the curved configuration shown in Figures 1
   and 2.
            Figure 4.- Shows an elevated view of a concrete barrier with an impact
   detection-signalling device, made of a hollow sheet supported both laterally and
20 in its upper part to the barrier's main structure.
            Figure 5.- Shows a frontal view of the application corresponding to the
   enveloping plate incorporating the invention's barrier mounted detection
   signalling device, with the end elements as means for coupling with adjacent
   barriers or contiguous sections of barrier.
25          Figure 6.- Shows a profile view of an alternative embodiment for the
   invention's barrier.
            Figure 7.- Shows a rear plan view of the barrier represented in the
   previous figure without a rear joining plate between sections of barrier, without
   the rear support for joining with the post, or the fixing post.
30          Figure 8.- Shows a front view of the assembly represented in Figure 6.
            Figure 9.- Shows a longitudinal detail of the three splints involved in the
   barrier shown in Figures 6 to 9, to give it rigidity and the corresponding bracket
   for fixing these splints transversely to the post anchored to the ground.
            Figure 10.- Shows a rear view of the rear joining plate between barrier
35 sections.

                                              5
                    PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE INVENTION
           As can be seen in the aforementioned figures the traffic protection fence
   (1) that is the object of the invention can be of concrete as represented in
   Figures 1 and 2, or of plastic, wood, metal or any other type of traffic protection
 5 fence, it incorporates a detection-signalling device that is formed from a curved
   plate (2) fixed by a suitable means to the front of the barrier (1), and whose
   protection plate (2) houses inside a sealed junction box (3) with an interior tube
   (4) to protect the cabling and establish the detection should an impact to the
   barrier occur, particularly an impact to the protection plate (2).
10         That is, the whole assembly forms an impact detector, where the junction
   box (3) in combination with the interior tube (4) establish a communication
   means with a traffic centre, the emergency services or any other entity, as well
   as activating a signal light (5) located on a support plate (6), fixed above the
   protection plate (2) and attached, as shown in Figure 1, to the surface or upper
15 part of the barrier (1), and where the plate (6) supporting the signal light (5) is
   made with an angled profile with a upper, horizontal section that is located
   above the upper edge of the barrier (1), and it has holes that are referenced
   with (7) and that are clearly shown in Figure 2.
          A signal light (8) is also planned for the protection plate (2), as can also
20 be seen in Figure 2.
           The signal light (5) indicates that an accident or impact against the fence
   (1) has occurred and it can be a triangle-shaped hazard signal for the motorists,
   motorcyclists, etc. that may be approaching the impact or crash site at that
   moment.
25         Optionally, and as shown in Figure 3, the protection plate, instead of
   being curved as represented in Figures 1 and 2 is a protection plate (2') with a
   trapezoidal configuration with the same function as previously described but
   with a different configuration, although this is not crucial as the configuration
   can be variable, although it must always have a curved or polygonal
30 configuration or other form to protect the junction box (3) and the interior tube
   (4) containing the means for detection, monitoring and communication.
           In the alternative embodiment shown in Figures 4 and 5 it can be seen
   that the invention's detection-signalling device has been applied to a concrete
   barrier (1'), in this case the invention is made of a plate (2") that envelops the
35 side and top surface of the barrier (1'), this plate (2") is hollow to house the
   corresponding impact detector, while the exterior includes the corresponding
   signal light (5').

                                              6
           The means for other devices are also provided within the plate (2"), such
   as a signal light (9) and others.
           In any case, the ends of the plate (2") have coupling elements (10) for
   connecting the plates (2") of the concrete blocks (1') corresponding to the
 5 barrier in a continuous disposition, as shown in Figure 5.
           In one of the invention's alternative embodiments, as shown in Figures 6
   to 10, the barrier may be configured with a rubber body made of recycled tyres
   and other similar materials (11), and contain a pair of longitudinal undulations
   (12) along its upper half, whose form and design may be that described in those
10 figures or vary depending on location and on the degree of danger for vehicles
   or the required level of containment.
           This main body is reinforced internally by a metal structure, particularly
   visible in Figure 9.
           The body of the fence-barrier incorporates some internal ducts (14)
15 necessary for incorporating the designed monitoring technology.
           Three splints (15) are provided that are fixed using screws and other
   conventional means to their respective supports (16) provided at the ends of the
   barrier's body (11), for which the ends of these splints (15) have holes (17) for
   screws and other appropriate fixing elements. The upper splints are joined to
20 form an assembly using a connecting splint (18).
           The join between sections of fence-barrier are made using a metal plate
   (21), as shown in Figure 10, whose shape and design can be that described in
   the accompanying figures or the design may vary in relation to the installation
   site depending on how dangerous it is for vehicles or the required level of
25 containment.
           The join between the fence-barrier and the post that acts as a vertical
   support is performed by a metal connecting piece, anchored to the post using a
   shear bolt (20).
           The fence-barrier is anchored to the ground or edge of the roadway by
30 inserting a post that acts as a vertical support for the fence-barrier (19), forming
   a C type profile, but not ruling out other shapes or measures for the section and
   profile type.
           The fence-barrier is designed to be able to house impact monitoring
   systems, bidirectional communication with a traffic control centre, signal light
35 systems. As well as materials or substances for efficiently obtaining a suitable
   reflectance and/or phosphorescence for night driving. A slit (13) is made in the
   ends of the rubber to house the box containing the control systems, the box

                                              7
   being protected by the rear plate as shown in Figure 10.
           The fence-barrier is designed to be able to include the materials or
   substances necessary to obtain the tones and colours required.
           The fence-barrier is designed to be able to include the materials or
 5 substances necessary to efficiently obtain the required levels of resistance or
   friction depending on how dangerous a siting location is for vehicles or the
   required level of containment.
           Two of the splints are embedded within the body (11) of the barrier,
   corresponding to the troughs of the two upper undulations in the barrier's body,
10 while the lower splint is located at a level close to the lower edge.
            In this specification, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
   term "comprising" has the non-exclusive meaning of the word, in the sense of
   "including at least" rather than the exclusive meaning in the sense of "consisting
   only of". The same applies with corresponding grammatical changes to other
15 forms of the word such as "comprise", "comprises" and so on.
           Any discussion of prior art information in this specification is not to be
   taken as any form of acknowledgement that that prior art information would be
   considered common general knowledge by a person of skill in the art, either in
   Australia or in any foreign country.
20

                                              8
                                          CLAIMS
    1.     An impact detection-signalling device, which can be installed in barriers
   made of concrete, metal, plastic or any other material, the impact detection
 5 signalling device comprising a protection plate that is fixed using an appropriate
   element to the front of the traffic protection barrier to which it is applied, the
   protection plate housing a junction box with an internal tube that establishes the
   detection, monitoring and communication system with a traffic control centre or
   emergency services personnel, the impact detection-signalling device further
10 including a signal light on a support plate, the signal light disposed above the
   protection plate.
   2.      The impact detection-signalling device for roads, according to claim 1,
   wherein the protection plate is curved and fixed to the front of the barrier using
15 bolts or any other appropriate element.
   3.      The impact detection-signalling device according to any one of claims 1 or
   2, wherein the protection plate has a broken trapezoidal profile and is fixed to
   the front of the barrier using bolts or any other appropriate element.
20
   4.      The impact detection-signalling device according to any one of the
   previous claims, wherein the support plate for the signal light has an angular
   profile, with a horizontal upper section above the upper edge of the barrier and
   the other section attached to the upper part of said barrier above the protection
25 plate.
   5.      The impact detection-signalling device according to any one of the
   previous claims, wherein the signal light preferably presents a hazard triangle
   configuration.
30
   6.      The impact detection-signalling device according to any one of the
   previous claims, wherein when it takes the form of a concrete block an
   enveloping plate is provided both on the side and upper part, which is hollow
   and includes within the corresponding impact detector as well as the signal light
35 and other devices and even one for light signalling provided in addition to the
   signal light.

                                              9
   7.     The impact detection-signalling device according to claim 6, wherein the
   plate includes at its edges means or elements for coupling with other
   accessories established for this purpose in the plate of an adjacent concrete
   block belonging to the respective barrier.
 5
   8.     The impact detection-signalling device according to any one of claims 1 to
   7, wherein the barrier incorporates an LCD screen, an LED screen or similar,
   which can show warning signs regarding specific conditions that may occur at
   certain moments.
10
   9.     The impact detection-signalling device according to claim 1, wherein the
   barrier incorporates a surface designed for the provision of advertisements.
   10.    The impact detection-signalling device according to any one of claims 1 to
15 9, wherein when the barrier is of the type formed by an undulated body
   designed to be fixed to the classic vertical posts anchored to the ground, it
   comprises a body of recycled rubber, with an elongated rectangular
   configuration, provided on its front face and near its upper part with, preferably,
   a pair of undulations, a body in which is embedded a series of longitudinal
20 splints suitably distributed, with a rear support through which the barrier is fixed
   to the vertical posts anchored to the ground, preferably using shear bolts, with
   the unique feature that ducts are located in its middle upper area.
   11.    The impact detection-signalling device according to claim 10, wherein the
25 ducts correspond with a slit in the ends of the rubber to house the box
   containing the control systems, the box being protected by a rear plate .
   12.    The impact detection-signalling device according to claim 10, wherein two
   of the splints stiffening the barrier's rubber body correspond to the troughs of
30 the two upper undulations in the barrier's body, while the third, lower, splint is
   located at a level close to the lower edge.
   13.    The impact detection-signalling device according to any one of claims 10
   to 12, wherein the rectangular rubber body constituting the barrier has at its
35 ends fixing brackets for the ends of the splints that provide the rigidity.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
