DENTAL PROSTHESIS PRODUCTION DEVICE AND DENTAL
PROSTHESIS
ABSTRACT
A dental prosthesis production device, comprising: an implant (40), an abutment (10) having a
shape that is compatible with the implant (40) and having a cylindrical section, a dental structure
(28) which can be attached to the cylindrical section of the abutment (10), and a machining tool
or CAM device. The dental structure (28) is made of a dental material. The abutment (10) is
mounted on the implant (40) via a releasable connection (44), having an anti-rotation mechanism
(50), and an anti-rotation device (22) being configured between the abutment (10) and the dental
structure (28). The anti-rotation device (22) forms at least one flute or groove at the cylindrical
section of the abutment (10), said at least one flute or groove, in cross-sectional view, curved
concavely, said at least one flute or groove extends across at least a part of the height of the
cylindrical section, the cylindrical section of the abutment (10) and the at least one flute or
groove ending at a rounded edge, said at least one flute(s) or groove(s) is/are maintained with a
rounded edge and a concave curve even if the cylindrical section is shortened. The machining
tool or CAM device is provided for selecting the abutment (10) for fitting with the dental
structure (28) and the machining tool, or the CAM device is provided for shortening the
abutment (10).

                                                    1
DENTAL PROSTHESIS PRODUCTION DEVICE AND DENTAL
PROSTHESIS
[0001] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application
No. 2015266150, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[0002] The invention relates to a dental prosthesis production device and a dental prosthesis.
[0003] In many cases, dental prostheses are attached in the mouth of a patient with the help of
an implant. In these cases, the implant is typically provided with a so-called abutment after it
has been inserted, which is connected to the implant in a geometrically true manner, for instance
by configuring the surfaces of the implant and the abutment which face one another in an untrue
or non-circular manner. The attachment itself is then carried out by means of an abutment screw
which penetrates the abutment. For this purpose, an upper area of the abutment is configured as
a tubing section whose internal diameter is sufficient for receiving the abutment screw. The
abutment screw is supported slightly below this tubing section on a slightly conical supporting
area in most cases, whose internal diameter is smaller than the diameter of the head of the
abutment screw but wide enough to fit the shank and the thread of the abutment screw. In this
case, the implant comprises an internal thread in a way known per se for threaded engagement
with the thread of the abutment screw.
[0004] Subsequent to the attachment of the abutment to the implant a dental structure is attached
to the abutment. For this purpose, the tubing section or the upper area of the abutment is slightly
conical on the outside in most cases and fits into a corresponding recess in the dental structure in
a geometrically true manner.
[0005] Solutions of this kind have been used for approximately 30 years; in this respect, it is
referred to DE 32 41 963 C1 or GB 2 119 258 A by way of example.
[0006] However, particularly with the solution according to the latter document the problem
arises that the rotary position of the dental structure relative to the implant is not or not explicitly
determined. In this respect, a better and somewhat newer solution is disclosed in US 5, 782, 918
Al which shows an anti-rotation device in the form of a flattened portion at the tubing section of

                                                  2
the abutment and which, in this respect, realizes an anti-rotation device between implant and
dental structure.
[0007] In this solution only one single size or height of the abutment is provided which is kept
small such that even more compact dental structures cover the tubing section completely.
[0008] Contrary to this, it has been suggested recently to have ready different sizes of abutments
which causes corresponding storage efforts and optionally also possibilities of confusion, or
which gives the dentist or dental technician expensive post-processing efforts by leaving to
him/her the task of adjusting to the size ratios and the oral situation of the patient.
[0009] However, this is unsatisfactory, the more so as the dentist or dental technician sometimes
overlooks that a sufficient support surface must be available for the transmission of power in
order to transmit the shear forces introduced during masticatory movements securely and
permanently when the size of the abutment changes, for instance by cutting the tubing section to
a desired height.
[0010] By making corresponding changes, in many cases the warranty claims against the
manufacturer are violated such that the dentist or dental technician bears the full liability risk
which is considered unsatisfactory for understandable reasons.
[0011] Furthermore, it has become apparent that in spite of a basically sufficiently dimensioned
support surface between the dental structure and the implant material fracture has occurred in
individual cases, especially with ceramic dental structures which are prone to brittle fractures
compared to dental structures consisting of a composite or plastic material.
[0012] In many cases, in the upper part of the tubing section of the abutment flanges are
provided which extend radially towards the outside and which are intended to be in engagement
with corresponding grooves in the dental structure in order to provide the desired anti-rotation
device. If this area is sawed off without further ado, the anti-rotation mechanism is not available
anymore; if, on the other hand, the abutment is used for abutment teeth of a bridge, the anti
rotation device which exists in this connection can be disturbing in some cases as in this case an
angularly accurate orientation to, for instance, less than 1 would be necessary to avoid tensions.

                                                   3
[0013] Contrary to this, it would be desirable to provide a dental prosthesis production device
and/or a dental prosthesis which take account of the requirements presented to the dental
prosthesis consisting of implant, abutment and dental structure in an improved manner and
which make it possible to handle the production of the dental prosthesis by the dentist or dental
technician in conformity with warranty claims.
[0014] It is an object of the present invention to provide a dental prosthesis production device
and/or a dental prosthesis that substantially overcomes or at least ameliorates one or more of the
disadvantages associated with the prior art or that achieves the above desirable outcome.
[0015] In a first aspect, the present invention provides a dental prosthesis production device,
comprising:
         an implant,
         an abutment having a shape that is compatible with the implant and having a cylindrical
section,
         a dental structure which can be attached to the cylindrical section of the abutment, and
         a machining tool or CAM device,
         wherein the dental structure is made of a dental material,
         wherein the abutment is mounted on the implant via a releasable connection, having an
anti-rotation mechanism, and an anti-rotation device being configured between the abutment and
the dental structure,
         wherein the anti-rotation device forms at least one flute or groove at the cylindrical
section of the abutment, said at least one flute or groove, in cross-sectional view, curved
concavely, said at least one flute or groove extends across at least a part of the height of the
cylindrical section, the cylindrical section of the abutment and the at least one flute or groove
ending at a rounded edge, said at least one flute(s) or groove(s) is/are maintained with a rounded
edge and a concave curve even if the cylindrical section is shortened, and
         wherein the machining tool or CAM device is provided for selecting the abutment for
fitting with the dental structure and the machining tool, or the CAM device is provided for
shortening the abutment.
[0016] In a second aspect, the present invention provides a dental prosthesis, comprising:
         an implant,

                                                     4
         an abutment, said abutment has a shape that is compatible with the implant and having a
cylindrical section, and
         a dental structure which is made of a dental material and which can be attached to the
cylindrical section of the abutment,
         wherein the abutment is mounted on the implant via a releasable connection, said
releasable connection comprises an anti-rotation mechanism, and an anti-rotation device being
configured between the abutment and the dental structure,
         wherein the anti-rotation device comprises at least one flute or groove at the cylindrical
section of the abutment, said at least one flute or groove, in cross-sectional view, curved
concavely, said at least one flute or groove extends across at least a part of the height of the
cylindrical section, the flute or groove ending at an end radius or at an end slant of the abutment
said abutment can be maintained with a rounded edge and a concave curve even if the section is
shortened.
[0017] According to an embodiment of the invention it is preferable that the production device
itself comprises a selection device for abutments. The data of the dental structure produced by
means of CAM, compression molding technology or rapid prototyping has been defined
beforehand and is present in the production device, such that according to an embodiment of the
invention it is preferable that the load-carrying capacity of the power transmission surfaces
between abutment and dental structure, the remaining wall thickness of the dental structure, the
angular orientation, the height level, etc., can be defined beforehand and in a predetermined
manner by the production device. Alternatively, a compression molding technology can also be
used, and in this respect it is referred to the entire document EP 1 915 972 Al by way of
example.
[0018] According to an embodiment of the invention it is favorable that in this way the
abutments can be selected based on the existing dimensioning of the abutments and that the
adjusted configuration of the bearing surfaces of the dental structure on the abutment can be
specified for the CAM device. Shortening the abutment can be performed by means of a
machining tool, in particular a milling cutter, or a CAM device.
[0019] In an embodiment it is possible to get by with only one abutment which can then be
shortened to a patient-specific height by means of the CAM device or optionally by means of a
separate milling cutter controlled by it. In this way, the disadvantages of a shortening process by
cutting off, in particular the disadvantages of a shortening process by manually cutting off can

                                                     5
be avoided without further ado; for instance, slants or radii at the upper end of the tubing section
of the abutment can be provided by means of the embodiment of an automatic shortening
process such that observed brittle fractures of ceramic dental structures that have been caused by
local tensile stresses at the inner corners of the dental structures can be prevented reliably.
[0020] A preferred embodiment provides a groove or a plurality of grooves which extend(s)
vertically almost across the entire height of the upper area of the abutment which is referred to
as tubing section herein. This embodiment comprising the anti-rotation device has the advantage
that it is also effective in this respect if the height of the tubing section is reduced in accordance
with the preferred embodiment. Furthermore, by realizing flanges according to the groove and
tongue principle in the radial inner surface of the dental structure the inventive anti-rotation
device can be ensured with the desired reliability.
[0021] If, on the other hand, the inventive dental prosthesis is configured as a bridge such that
an additional anti-rotation device is not only undesirable but also disturbing the CAM device
simply omits or does not produce the corresponding flanges such that the desired ability to rotate
for a stress-free mounting of the bridge is given.
[0022] The fact that improved precision of the fit between the dental structure and the abutment
is realized inventively, does not prevent the provision of a provided adhesive joint which serves
in particular to adjust the resilience of the dental prosthesis compared to the antagonist.
[0023] In fact, by means of the inventive CAM production the desired adhesive gap can be set at
an exceptionally great accuracy of, for instance, 50m.
[0024] According to an embodiment of the invention it is preferable that the mistakes that have
previously been made in the adjustment of the height of the abutment are suppressed quasi
automatically. The milling process automatically defines the curves and radii as can be provided
in a stress-related limited manner. An unintentional reduction and thus a decrease of the support
surface are precluded, just like an unintentional confusion of the abutments which are adjusted
to the corresponding dental structure, respectively. Finishing, such as roughening or the like, is
not required; in fact, as part of the CAM production the abutment can, for instance, also be
coated and thus be given a desired color in any suitable manner, wherein it is to be understood
that the degree of roughness of the coating is adapted to the requirements.

                                                   6
[0025] The upper area of the abutment can be shortened to standard dimensions in any suitable
manner such that the inner surfaces of the dental structure can also be configured with standard
dimensions.
[0026] Here, the configuration of the arrangement of grooves in the upper area of the implant, as
discussed above, can be used as an anti-rotation device but also, for instance, a respective untrue
or non-circular configuration at a collar of the implant which is engaged with the dental
structure.
[0027] In an embodiment the desired shape of the dental prosthesis is determined based on an
extraoral or intraoral 3D scan with the aid of a scanbody whose cylindrical geometry comprises
a bevel or a ball-shaped reference surface in order to enable the determination and transfer of the
initial situation (model) into 3D data (scan). For this purpose, the scanning result is supplied to a
CAD device which, based on the shape of neighboring teeth of the desired dental prosthesis,
forms a virtual shape of the restoration to be produced and divides it virtually into an implant, an
abutment and a dental structure - optionally after the intervention of a user.
[0028] Here, an abutment refers to any desired meso-structure, that is to say any structure which
extends between the implant and the dental structure which is also referred to as suprastructure,
wherein it is to be understood that single-unit but also multi-unit dental abutment structures can
be realized basically.
[0029] It is to be understood that the outer surface of the tubing section of the abutment can be
provided with drain channels for adhesive in any desired manner which can be combined with
anti-rotation elements, that is to say corresponding grooves or other female molds at the outer
surface of the tubing section, if necessary. In this connection, the realization of a chamfer at the
transition between the tubing section and the collar of the abutment is particularly preferable.
This chamfer is typically external to the contact area, that is to say to the area at which the
abutment contacts the dental structure, and is thus subjected to lower surface pressure. Here,
excessive adhesive can be carried off in a suitable manner by means of a correspondingly
suitable configuration of an elongated or ring-shaped recess.
[0030] Subsequently to this chamfer the collar of the abutment extends substantially vertically
towards the outside and comprises a relatively small axial height which can amount to between

                                                   7
0.1mm and 1mm, 0.1mm and 2mm and between 0.1mm and 0.5mm. This enables an adjustment
to the emergence profile in an anatomically favorable manner.
[0031] Further details and features may be taken from the following description of several
exemplary embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the drawings, in which:
[0032] Fig. 1 shows a perspective schematic representation of an inventive dental prosthesis;
[0033] Fig. 2 shows the embodiment according to Fig. 1, however, in a sectional view;
[0034] Fig. 3 shows a modified embodiment of an inventive dental prosthesis according to Fig.
1;
[0035] Fig. 4 shows the embodiment according to Fig. 3 in a sectional view;
[0036] Fig. 5 shows a further modified embodiment of the inventive dental prosthesis in a
perspective view;
[0037] Fig. 6 shows the embodiment according to Fig. 5 in a sectional view;
[0038] Fig. 7 shows a view of a further embodiment of an inventive dental prosthesis in a side
view;
[0039] Fig. 8 shows the embodiment according to Fig. 7 in a top view;
[0040] Fig. 9 shows the embodiment according to Fig. 7 and 8 in a sectional view;
[0041] Fig. 10 shows a schematic representation of an inventive dental prosthesis production
device illustrating the part relevant for the invention; and
[0042] Fig. 11 shows a schematic representation of an inventive dental prosthesis production
device illustrating the part relevant for the invention, however, in a modified embodiment.
[0043] In Fig. 1 an abutment 10 is illustrated as part of a dental prosthesis which can be
connected to an implant for the production of a dental structure (see Fig. 2).

                                                   8
[0044] The abutment 10 comprises an implant connection 12 which is able to be supported in a
torque-proof manner on an implant. The anti-rotation mechanism realized in this respect can be
configured, for instance, with a hexagonal outer shape or a hexagonal inner shape.
[0045] A collar 14 is formed above the implant connection 12 which collar merges into the
implant connection 12 across a relatively large radius (see Fig. 2). The collar 14 tapers off in a
relatively pointed manner and its top ends in an internal radius 16 which is even considerably
smaller than the radius of the implant connection 12.
[0046] Subsequent to the collar 14 and starting from it, a tubing section 18 or upper part of the
abutment extends. The tubing section 18 comprises a central recess 20 which is suitable for
receiving an implant screw (see Fig. 8). Towards its upper end, the tubing section 18 comprises
a slightly conical shape; the cone angle is, for instance, 3'.
[0047] For providing an anti-rotation device between the implant on the one hand and the dental
structure on the other hand the abutment 10 comprises a plurality of grooves 22 which are
evenly distributed around the periphery and which extend in an open manner towards the top
and vertically across a chamfer in a closed manner towards the bottom.
[0048] It can be seen from Fig. 2 how a dental structure 28 can be connected to the tubing
section 18. As is schematically suggested in Fig. 2, an adhesive gap 30 extends between the
dental structure 28 on the one hand and the collar 14 and the tubing section 18 on the other
hand. The dental structure 28 comprises flanges which face inwards and which are intended to
extend into the grooves 22 of the tubing section 18 in order to ensure that no rotation occurs.
[0049] It can also be seen from Fig. 2 that the implant can basically be provided with several
lengths. The three different lengths presented herein only differ in the height of the tubing
section 18, while the shape of the implant does not exhibit any difference apart from that.
[0050] All the shapes "L", "M" and "S" have in common that they end in an end radius 32. In
this way, notch effects with respect to the dental structure 28 are prevented.
[0051] Now, the inventive selection device (Fig. 10) selects the appropriate shape depending on
the size and shape of the dental structure 28. Additionally, if necessary, it is possible to perform

                                                   9
a fine adjustment by determining the exact desired height of the tubing section 18 by means of
the CAD/CAM device (Fig. 10).
[0052] The height adjustment and the selection are also performed depending on the type of the
tooth: While anterior teeth are rather slim and tall, molars comprise dental material in the
approximal or buccal/lingual direction.
[0053] The shear forces introduced by the masticatory forces are correspondingly larger with
molars, but due to the larger wall thickness in the area surrounding the tubing section 18 molars
are also more stable such that a higher surface pressure in the tubing section 18 is possible. In
the exemplary embodiment illustrated, the depth of the grooves 22 amounts to approximately
half of the wall thickness of the tubing section 18, and it is to be understood that, if necessary,
the selection device can also select an abutment for anterior teeth, which has a slightly smaller
wall thickness, for instance 0.5mm instead of 0.6mm. In this way, the wall thickness of the
dental structure can even be increased slightly.
[0054] According to the invention it is particularly favorable that the selection device
automatically selects a suitable abutment based on the result that has already been determined,
that is to say the dental prosthesis to be produced, and that it adjusts this abutment optionally in
a patient-specific manner, reduces its height or adjusts the rest of it.
[0055] It is to be understood that the shape of the abutment is compatible with that of the
implant, as can be seen from Fig. 8.
[0056] When selecting the abutment, the selection device selects an abutment whose height is
the same or larger than a target height such that sufficient material is always provided for the
machining process which may be required.
[0057] According to the invention it is important in this connection that the end radius 32 is
attached or kept quasi automatically during machining or milling.
[0058] In this connection, the dental prosthesis production device also produces at least the
inner structure of the dental structure 28 in a suitable manner and adapted to the result of the
selection by the selection device and apart from that also adapted to the shape of each abutment
10 used for the production of the dental prosthesis.

                                                   10
[0059] As the outer shape of the dental structure 28 can already be determined based on a
detection of the oral situation of the patient by means of a 3D scan, it is also possible and
particularly favorable if the scanning result forms a virtual shape of the restoration to be
produced based on the shape of neighboring teeth of the dental prosthesis to be produced and at
the same time performs the division of this shape into implant, abutment and dental structure.
[0060] In this connection, it is preferable if the production device refers to an abutment library
which has available a certain number of sizes of the abutment depending on the type of the
dental prosthesis, wherein then, depending on the size, the production device takes into account
the forces to be absorbed and the selection device selects the abutment also based on this.
[0061] It is to be understood that, in this connection, the height level of the occlusal surface of
the dental structure is preferably taken into consideration that is to say that the abutment is
shortened to such an extent or is selected in a shorter form by the selection device that sufficient
dental material, such as ceramic material, is available between the upper end of the abutment
and the occlusal surface.
[0062] Preferably, the groove 22 or the plurality of grooves 22 extends across a significant part
of the height of the tubing section 18 of the abutment 10.
[0063] In a plurality of grooves 22 the surfaces which are available for the transmission of
torques are larger than if only one groove is realized (Fig. 3 and Fig. 4) such that in this case
partially covering the height of the tubing section 18 is sufficient, as can be seen from Fig. 2.
Even with the smallest height or greatest reduction according to ,,S" a part of the height of the
groove 22 is still available for the anti-rotation device.
[0064] In contrast, Fig. 3 illustrates an embodiment of an abutment 10 with only one groove 22.
As can be seen from Fig. 4, it extends to the collar 14 such that sufficient torque-active surface
is still available even if the tubing section 18 has been shortened as greatly as possible.
[0065] Preferably, the flute (groove 22) comprises one end radius or one chamfer, respectively,
in order to prevent abrupt changes in stiffness of the abutment.
[0066] The wall thickness of the tubing section can be constant from the collar 14 to the end
radius 32, or can decrease slightly, for instance by 10% to 15%, wherein it is to be understood

                                                   11
that the internal diameter of the tubing section 18 is constant across the height as in the recess 20
an implant screw with its head must be received.
[0067] In a way known per se the abutment 10 comprises an internal taper 34 in the area of the
collar or slightly above, and the head of the implant screw is in contact with the internal taper.
[0068] In contrast, Fig. 5 illustrates an embodiment which is modified even further. In this
solution the anti-rotation device is realized by means of a groove 22 in the area of the collar 14,
while the tubing section 18 is free of grooves or flutes (grooves 22).
[0069] Even if only two grooves 22 or flutes 18 are to be seen in Fig. 5 and Fig. 6 in the area of
the collar 14, it is to be understood that a plurality of corresponding grooves is preferably
provided to maximize the surfaces suitable for transferring torques.
[0070] In Fig. 7 an abutment is shown slightly enlarged in a position screwed into the implant.
The area between the collar 14 and the upper end of the implant 40 is smoothed in a way known
per se with dental cement for providing a suitable emergence profile; due to the small height of
the collar 14 an adaptation to the requirements of the patient is possible to a large extent.
[0071] In this respect, the transition towards the dental structure 28 is important which is in
connection with the abutment 10 by means of the adhesive gap 30.
[0072] It is to be understood that any desired suitable biocompatible adhesive or dental cement
can be used as a filling material for the adhesive gap 30.
[0073] It can be seen from Fig. 8 how an implant screw 42 can be inserted into the recess 20.
The screw head is, for instance, provided with an inbus structure which has been modified
towards a TORX structure and the screw head 44 fills the recess 20 radially almost completely.
[0074] It can be seen from Fig. 9 that the screw head 44 of the implant screw 42 contacts the
internal taper 34 of the abutment, via the taper support thereof, in order to provide for the screw
connection 46. Screws comprising a vertical to flat shoulder also come into question for this
purpose, and it is therefore also apparent that an anti-rotation mechanism 50 is realized between
the implant 40 and the abutment 10, for instance in the form of hexagonal surfaces which fit one
another.

                                                    12
[0075] It is to be understood that, in practice, the implant 40 is provided with an external thread
known per se even if this is not shown in the Figures.
[0076] As can be seen from Fig. 8, in the area of the internal radius 16 an undercut 48 is formed
which serves to receive adhesive which drains off. Furthermore, in this embodiment it is
provided to compress the surface of the abutment after the shortening process which has been
performed optionally, for instance by exposing it to a jet of a granular substance.
[0077] In a further modified embodiment it is provided instead to provide the abutment with a
single- or two-colored coating.
[0078] Fig. 10 illustrates the schematic configuration of a dental prosthesis production device
62.
[0079] Initially, the oral situation of the patient, in particular the neighboring teeth of the dental
prosthesis to be produced, is scanned by means of a scanning device 60. In this way, the scan
data are present in the dental prosthesis production device 62. Based on this, the dental
prosthesis production device 62 develops a dental prosthesis in a way known per se, for instance
as a virtual hybrid between both the neighboring teeth or in any other suitable manner
corresponding to the position of the dental prosthesis in the mouth of the patient.
[0080] Thus, the dental prosthesis production device 62 defines the outer shape of the dental
structure 28, also including the height level for the provision of a suitable occlusal surface (or
incisal surface) with respect to the antagonist of the dental prosthesis.
[0081] Thus, apart from the height level and position, the outer shape of the dental structure is
also determined, also including the dimensions of the dental structure in the approximal and
lingual/buccal direction. Based on this and based on the data comprised in a library 64 of
abutments (and optionally implants) a selection device 66 selects a suitable abutment. The
abutment 10 is selected such that its height fits the virtual internal space of the dental prosthesis,
that is to say such that sufficient ceramic dental material is available for the support at the tubing
section 18. Furthermore, the wall thickness of the dental structure is taken into consideration as
a marginal condition in the selection process, for instance > 1mm with anterior teeth and > 2mm
with molars and pre-molars.

                                                   13
[0082] It is to be understood that these values can be adapted to the requirements to a large
extent.
[0083] The selection device 66 is part of a CAD station and determines the suitable abutment
based on this, which can optionally be shortened in order to optimize it. A CAM device 68
serves this purpose and performs the shaping step which comes up in this respect and which in
particular also shapes the end radius 32 of the abutment automatically.
[0084] Furthermore, the selection device 66 also transmits shape data 72 for providing the
internal shape of the dental structure 28 which is produced by the CAM device 68.
[0085] It is to be understood that a separate milling cutter can be realized instead for processing
the abutment 10.
[0086] Preferably, in a test step it is further checked at the same time if the inner surface of the
dental structure 28 fits the respective abutment 10 to be processed. This can be done either by
adaptation - without adhesive - or by means of a scan for which the scanning device 60 can be
used again.
[0087] In this connection, it is checked as part of a test step if the fit is appropriate or sufficient
in order to ensure the desired height level on the one hand but also torque-proof mounting on the
other hand.
[0088] If necessary, finishing is carried out in a finishing step again by means of the CAM
device 28.
[0089] From Fig. 11 a further embodiment of the dental prosthesis production device 62 is
apparent. Again, scan data is initially provided which has been produced by the 3D scanning
device 60. Based on this and using shape data from a library 64, the selection device 66 does not
only determine the shape of the abutment 10 but also the outer shape of the dental suprastructure
28. This data which fits one another, also with regard to the height of the tubing section 18 in
case of the abutment 10, is supplied to the corresponding production devices, and the height of
the abutment 10 is shortened to "L", "M" or "S", if necessary. The associated radius is rounded
off at the same time. The internal structure of the dental structure 28 is determined such that it
matches the radius and produced by means of CAD/CAM, and, of course, at the same time also
the outer structure.

                                                  14
[0090] As a result, the finished parts are available for providing the dental prosthesis. The dental
prosthesis is now assembled in a step 74, wherein the dental structure 28 is adhesively bonded
onto the abutment 10.
[0091] In a test step and optionally in a finishing step 70 the result is reviewed and finishing is
carried out, if necessary, for instance by removing occlusal defects at the occlusal plane of the
produced molar of the dental structure 28.

                                                   15
CLAIMS
1.     A dental prosthesis production device, comprising:
       an implant,
       an abutment having a shape that is compatible with the implant and having a cylindrical
section,
       a dental structure which can be attached to the cylindrical section of the abutment, and
       a machining tool or CAM device,
       wherein the dental structure is made of a dental material,
       wherein the abutment is mounted on the implant via a releasable connection, having an
anti-rotation mechanism, and an anti-rotation device being configured between the abutment and
the dental structure,
       wherein the anti-rotation device forms at least one flute or groove at the cylindrical section
of the abutment, said at least one flute or groove, in cross-sectional view, curved concavely, said
at least one flute or groove extends across at least a part of the height of the cylindrical section,
the cylindrical section of the abutment and the at least one flute or groove ending at a rounded
edge, said at least one flute(s) or groove(s) is/are maintained with a rounded edge and a concave
curve even if the cylindrical section is shortened, and
       wherein the machining tool or CAM device is provided for selecting the abutment for
fitting with the dental structure and the machining tool, or the CAM device is provided for
shortening the abutment.
2.     The dental prosthesis production device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the abutment
comprises a tubing section, the machining tool or CAM device provides a predefined number of
heights of the tubing section of the abutment, and the height suitable for the dental structure can
be selected.
3.     The dental prosthesis production device as claimed in claim 1, wherein by means of the
machining tool or CAM device for the dental prosthesis the abutment is selected to match the
diameter and type of the implant and the diameter and type of the dental structure, and wherein
machining tool or CAM device shape data can be supplied which relate to a patient-specific
height of the selected abutment.

                                                  16
4.     The dental prosthesis production device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the abutment can
be reduced in height to one or more medium heights or a minimum height.
5.     The dental prosthesis production device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the production
device comprises the CAM device for finishing the dental structure which calculates the data of
the dental structure to be produced based on data of outer geometry of the dental structure and on
data of the abutment dimensions and forwards the data to the CAM device.
6.     The dental prosthesis production device as claimed in claim 4, wherein a desired shape of
the dental prosthesis can be determined based on an extraoral or intraoral 3D scan with the aid of
a scanbody, said scanbody having cylindrical geometry comprising a bevel or ball-shaped
reference surface by supplying the scanning result to the CAM device which, based on the shape
of neighboring teeth of the desired dental prosthesis, forms a virtual shape of the restorations to
be produced and which divides them virtually into an implant, an abutment and a dental
structure.
7.     The dental prosthesis production device as claimed in claim 1, wherein by means of the
machining tool or CAM device the abutment of the dental prosthesis can be selected, which
comprises a crown or a bridge as a supraconstruction, depending on a desired constructive height
level thereof in relation to an occlusal plane, and a degree of required shortening of the abutment
can be shortened to a height in order to provide the desired height level of the supraconstruction,
and the shape data predefined in this way can be supplied to the CAM device.
8.     The dental prosthesis production device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the dental material
comprises one or more of ceramic and plastic, wherein the releasable connection comprises a
screw connection, and wherein the machining tool comprises a milling cutter.
9.     The dental prosthesis production device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the predefined
number of heights comprise three heights of large, medium and small.
10.    The dental prosthesis production device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the height that the
abutment can be reduced comprises two to three different lengths.
11.    A dental prosthesis, comprising:
       an implant,

                                                  17
       an abutment, said abutment has a shape that is compatible with the implant and having a
cylindrical section, and
       a dental structure which is made of a dental material and which can be attached to the
cylindrical section of the abutment,
       wherein the abutment is mounted on the implant via a releasable connection, said
releasable connection comprises an anti-rotation mechanism, and an anti-rotation device being
configured between the abutment and the dental structure,
       wherein the anti-rotation device comprises at least one flute or groove at the cylindrical
section of the abutment, said at least one flute or groove, in cross-sectional view, curved
concavely, said at least one flute or groove extends across at least a part of the height of the
cylindrical section, the flute or groove ending at an end radius or at an end slant of the abutment
said abutment can be maintained with a rounded edge and a concave curve even if the section is
shortened.
12.    The dental prosthesis as claimed in claim 11, wherein in the cylindrical section of the
abutment, the at least one flute or groove extends from the end slant or the end radius of the
abutment, across at least 70% of the height of the cylindrical section of the abutment.
13.    The dental prosthesis as claimed in claim 12, wherein the abutment comprises a collar and
wherein said at least one flute or groove tapers towards the collar of the abutment.
14.    The dental prosthesis as claimed in claim 13, wherein the abutment may be selected from
two or more abutments with differently shortened cylinder sections (tubing sections), wherein
every abutment can be additionally shortened to a desired length by means of one or more profile
cutters or by means of a CAM device.
15.    The dental prosthesis as claimed in claim 14, wherein the abutment is shortened and after
the shortening, is compressed on a surface, by being exposed to a jet of a granular substance
and/or that the abutment consists of a ceramic, plastic or metal material.
16.    The dental prothesis as claimed in claim 15, wherein the abutment comprises a single
coloured to two-coloured coating, comprising TiN or an anodization of TiN for the production of
an aesthetic abutment surface, wherein both the single-coloured to two-coloured coating and
aesthetic abutment surface comprises brighter shades which are similar to tooth colour and/or
that the abutment comprises a roughened surface.

                                                  18
17.    The dental prosthesis as claimed in claim 16, wherein at least one flute or groove extends
at the cylinder section (tubing sections) in the manner of a bent circular arc towards the outside
and comprises an end radius or the end slant at the cylinder section (tubing sections), the flute or
groove ends in front of the radius or the slant of the collar of the abutment with a slant which is
rounded off towards the collar, and the collar comprises at least one rounding at the cylinder
section and/or at an implant connection of the abutment.
18.    The dental prosthesis as claimed in claim 12, wherein the at least one flute or groove
extends from the end slant or the end radius of the abutment at least 80%, of the height of a total
area of the cylindrical section.
19.    The dental prosthesis as claimed in claim 15, wherein the metal material comprises
titanium or a titanium alloy.
                                       Ivoclar Vivadent AG
                     Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                    SPRUSON & FERGUSON

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/4

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/4

