                                        ABSTRACT
A method for promoting contraception by placing a contraceptive device within a uterus
without blocking fallopian tubes may involve advancing a distal end of a delivery device
through a cervix, advancing the contraceptive device comprising an elongate shape memory
member out of the distal end of the delivery device and into the uterus, and limiting inferior
migration of the contraceptive device within the uterus and/or device embedment within the
uterus.

            INTRAUTERINE CONTRACEPTIVE DEVICE BACKGROUND
         [0000]       This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013302805, the
entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
Field of the Invention
         [0001]       The invention relates generally to medical devices. More specifically, the
invention relates to an intrauterine device for contraception and method for use.
Description of the Related Art
         [0002]       Intrauterine devices (IUDs) are a commonly used forn of contraception.
There are two basic types of currently available IUDs - copper-releasing and progesterone
releasing. The copper IUD is a T-shaped device made of polyethylene wrapped with copper
wire. The device acts as a foreign body within the uterus and releases copper to produce a
chemical effect on the endometrium of the uterus and to alter the production of cervical
mucus, thus producing a spermicidal environment.
         [0003]       Progesterone-releasing IUDs are also T-shaped devices and include a
cylindrical reservoir containing levonorgestrel, which is released into the uterus over time. The
levonorgestrel adds to the foreign body effects to create added spermicidal action and also
thickens cervical mucus to act as a barrier to sperm penetration into the uterus.
         [0004]       Although both copper and progestin-releasing IUDs work well for
contraception, both have common side effects. The most common side effects with copper
IUDs are abnormal bleeding and pain. The most common side effects with levonorgestrel
IUDs are hormone-related effects, such as headaches, nausea, breast tenderness, depression
and cyst formation. When either copper or hormone/levonorgestrel is used as an active
ingredient, it is typically thought that the larger the surface area of copper or hormone exposed
in the uterus, the better the contraceptive action of the IUD. Although a larger surface area of
exposed copper or hormone creates a higher risk of abnormal bleeding or other side effects, it
is thought to be necessary to achieve effective birth control. Thus, for example, currently
available copper IUDs typically have an exposed copper surface area of 380 mm squared. Past
scientific studies of similarly configured IUDs, but with a reduced copper surface area of 200
mm squared, showed higher failure rates (undesirable pregnancies) in the range of 3%-10%.

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
           [0005]      In addition to the above shortcomings, many currently available IUDs
  are at least slightly uncomfortable and/or challenging to deliver into the uterus. All IUDs
  are delivered through the cervix using a delivery sheath. Although this delivery method
  works well in many cases, the required size of the currently available IUDs typically
  requires a sheath having an outer diameter that can cause pain or discomfort upon
  insertion into a cervix. In some cases, the pain can even be significant. Thus, the size of
  currently available IUDs and their delivery sheaths is another shortcoming.
           [0006]      Therefore, although existing IUDs work relatively well for their
  purpose of contraception, there is still a need for improved IUDs. Ideally, such improved
  IUDs would provide reliable, long-acting contraception with relatively few, minor side
  effects. At least some of these objectives are met by the embodiments described in this
  application.
                                        BRIEF SUMMARY
           [0007]      Based on the various drawbacks of currently available IUDs, various
  embodiments of IUDs described herein provide contraception without the use of copper,
  levonorgestrel, other hormones or other substances. These IUDs provide contraception by
  providing an effective foreign body response within the uterus and in some cases by
  applying pressure against the uterine wall. The IUDs described herein are generally made
  at least in part of shape memory material, such as but not limited to Nitinol.
           [0008]      In other embodiments described herein, an IUD may deliver copper
  and/or another spermicide in a targeted fashion to one or more targeted areas within the
  uterus. For example, in one embodiment, copper may be focally delivered by at IUD at or
  near openings of the fallopian tubes and at or near the cervical os. By delivering a
  substance more selectively (or "focally"), these IUD embodiments provide effective
  contraception with smaller doses of copper (or other substance) than currently available
  IUDs. Generally, the limited, focal delivery of a substance such as copper is augmented by
  the IUD acting as a foreign body within the uterus, thus providing effective contraception.
           [0009]      In one aspect, a method for promoting contraception by placing a
  contraceptive device within a uterus without blocking fallopian tubes may include
  advancing a distal end of a delivery device through a cervix, advancing the contraceptive
  device comprising an elongate shape memory member out of the distal end of the delivery
  device and into the uterus, and limiting inferior migration of the contraceptive device
                                               -2-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  within the uterus. Advancing the contraceptive device out of the distal end of the delivery
  device may cause the device to expand from a first, compressed shape within the delivery
  device to a second, expanded shape within the uterus. In the expanded shape, two tissue
  contact surfaces at opposite ends of the shape memory member may contact the inner wall
  of the uterus, and each of the tissue contact members, when the contraceptive device is
  delivered, may be positioned near, but not within, an opening of one of the two fallopian
  tubes branching from the uterus. Inferior migration may be limited by allowing the
  contraceptive device to assume a third shape, when subjected to pressure that tends to
  cause a downward migration of the device within the uterus, in which the tissue contact
  members are closer together than in the second shape and in which an expandable middle
  portion of the device is expanded to contact the inner wall of the uterus and thus limit the
  downward migration of the device.
           [0010]     In some embodiments, each of the tissue contact surfaces, when the
  device is delivered, may be positioned within approximately 2 cm of an opening of one of
  the fallopian tubes. Optionally, some embodiments of the method further involve delivering
  a substance within the uterus via the contraceptive device, where the substance may
  include but is not limited to one or more hormones, spermicides, copper and/or therapeutic
  agents. In one embodiment, delivering the substance may involve delivering copper to at
  least one selected area of the uterus in a more concentrated dose than to at least one other
  area of the uterus via at least one substance delivery member disposed on the
  contraceptive device in at least one location configured to provide the substance at the at
  least one selected area. In some of such embodiments, a total exposed surface area of the
  substance delivery member(s) may equal no more than about 200 square millimeters. In
  some embodiments, the substance delivery member(s) may include at least two substance
  delivery members, and each of the at least two substance delivery members may be
  positioned on the contraceptive device so that it will be located at or near an ostium of one
  of the fallopian tubes when the contraceptive device is delivered to the uterus. Optionally,
  the substance delivery member(s) may further include at least one additional substance
  delivery member positioned on the contraceptive device so that it will be located at or near
  an internal cervical os when the contraceptive device is delivered to the uterus.
           [0011]     In some embodiments, the method may further include removing the
  contraceptive device through the cervix by pulling on a thread connected to the
                                               -3-

WO 2014/028499                                                                 PCT/US2013/054743
  contraceptive device. In some embodiments, the distal end of the delivery device may be
  tapered, and the contraceptive device may be completely contained within the delivery
  device during advancement of the delivery device through the cervix. In some
  embodiments, advancing the contraceptive device out of the delivery device may involve
  delivering the contraceptive device to a first, inferior location in the uterus, and the method
  may further include allowing the contraceptive device to migrate superiorly to a second
  location in the uterus after delivery. In some embodiments, the method may further involve
  applying sufficient pressure against the wall of the uterus with the tissue contact surfaces
  to promote contraception.
           [0012]     In another aspect, a method for promoting contraception may involve
  delivering a substance to one or more targeted areas in a uterus in a more concentrated
  dose than to at least one other area in the uterus via a contraceptive device having at least
  one substance delivery member located thereon. In such a method, a total exposed
  substance delivery surface area of the substance delivery member(s) may equal no more
  than about 200 square millimeters.
           [0013]     In some embodiments, the method may also involve, before delivering
  the substance, advancing a distal end of a delivery device through a cervix, and advancing
  the contraceptive device comprising an elongate shape memory member out of the distal
  end of the delivery device and into the uterus, thus causing the contraceptive device to
  expand from a first, compressed shape within the delivery device to a second, expanded
  shape within the uterus, where two tissue contact surfaces at opposite ends of the shape
  memory member contact the inner wall of the uterus when the contraceptive device is in
  the second shape, and where each of the tissue contact members, when the contraceptive
  device is delivered, is positioned near, but not within, an opening of one of the two
  fallopian tubes branching from the uterus.
           [0014]     In some embodiments, the substance is copper, and the substance
  delivery member(s) include at least a first substance delivery member positioned on the
  elongate member at or near a first one of the tissue contact surfaces, a second substance
  delivery member positioned on the elongate member at or near a second one of the tissue
  contact surfaces, and a third substance delivery member positioned on the elongate
  member at or near a middle portion configured to be located at or near a cervical os when
  the contraceptive device is located within the uterus. In some embodiments, the method
                                                -4-

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
  may further include limiting inferior migration of the contraceptive device within the uterus
  by allowing the contraceptive device to assume a third shape when subjected to pressure
  that tends to cause a downward migration of the device within the uterus, in which the
  tissue contact members are closer together than in the second shape and in which an
  expandable middle portion of the device is expanded to contact the inner wall of the uterus
  and thus limit the downward migration of the device. In some embodiments, the method
  may further include applying sufficient pressure against the wall of the uterus with the
  tissue contact surfaces to promote contraception.
           [0015]     In some embodiments, the substance is copper, and the the substance
  delivery member(s) include at least three substance delivery members, two of which are
  positioned on the contraceptive device so that they will be located at or near an ostium of
  a fallopian tube and one of which is positioned on the contraceptive device so that it will
  be located at or near a cervical os when the contraceptive device is delivered to the uterus.
  In alternative embodiments, the substance may be one of any number of spermicidal agents
  other than copper. In some embodiments, the method may further include delivering an
  additional substance to the uterus, where the additional substance may include but is not
  limited to Levonorgestrel,      other hormones and/or therapeutic agents. In various
  embodiment, the total exposed surface area of the substance delivery members may equal
  no more than about 200 square millimeters.
           [0016]     In another aspect, a method for promoting contraception by focally
  delivering a substance within a uterus may first involve advancing a contraceptive device
  out of a distal end of a delivery device and into the uterus, thus causing the contraceptive
  device to expand from a first, compressed shape within the delivery device to a second,
  expanded shape within the uterus, where two tissue contact surfaces at opposite ends of
  the contraceptive device contact an inner wall of the uterus when the contraceptive device
  is in the second shape, and where each of the tissue contact surfaces, when the
  contraceptive device is delivered, is positioned near, but not within, one of two fallopian
  tube openings. Next, the method may involve delivering the substance to at least one
  targeted area of the uterus over time, via the contraceptive device, where the at least one
  targeted area includes areas at or near both of the fallopian tube openings, and where the
  contraceptive device includes at least one substance delivery member located at or near
  each of the tissue contact surfaces to deliver the substance at or near the fallopian tube
                                                -5-

WO 2014/028499                                                               PCT/US2013/054743
  openings. Finally, the method may also involve allowing the contraceptive device to
  partially collapse within the uterus such that the at least one substance delivery member
  forms a continuous line across the uterus from one side to an opposite side of the inner
  wall of the uterus.
           [0017]     In some embodiments, the contraceptive device may include at least
  three substance delivery members, and advancing the contraceptive device may cause at
  least one of the substance delivery members to be positioned at or near each of the
  openings of the fallopian tubes and one of the substance delivery members to be positioned
  at or near a cervical os. In some embodiments, delivering the substance comprises
  delivering copper, and a total exposed surface area of the substance delivery members is
  no more than about 200 square millimeters. In some embodiments, the contraceptive
  device may include an elongate shape memory member, the substance delivery member(s)
  may be formed as sleeves disposed around the shape memory member, and allowing the
  contraceptive device to partially collapse causes the substance delivery members to move
  together to form an approximately continuous cylinder.
           [0018]     In another aspect, a method for approximating contractility of a uterus
  may first involve advancing a contraceptive device comprising a shape memory member
  out of the distal end of a delivery device and into the uterus, thus causing the contraceptive
  device to expand from a first, compressed shape within the delivery device to a second,
  expanded shape within the uterus, where two tissue contact surfaces at opposite ends of
  the contraceptive device contact the inner wall of the uterus when the contraceptive device
  is in the second, expanded shape, and where each of the tissue contact surfaces, when the
  contraceptive device is delivered, is positioned near, but not within, an opening of a
  fallopian tube. The method may then involve visualizing, using a visualization device, the
  contraceptive device in the second shape in which a middle portion of the device is
  expanded. The method may then involve approximating contractility of the uterus by
  comparing an amount of expansion of the middle portion of the device with a known
  amount of expansion of the middle portion when the device is completely unconstrained.
  In some embodiments, visualizing the contraceptive device may involve using a
  radiographic visualization device positioned outside the uterus and at least a portion of the
  middle portion of the contraceptive device may be radiopaque.
                                                -6-

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
          [0019]     In another aspect, a shape memory, intrauterine, contraceptive device
  may include two tissue contact surfaces at or near opposing ends of the device, an
  expandable middle portion between the tissue contact surfaces, and a spring portion at or
  near a midpoint of the elongate member. The contraceptive device may be configured to
  move from a first, default configuration when unconstrained to a second, partially
  collapsed configuration when the two tissue contact surfaces are forced toward one
  another by an inner wall of a uterus. The expandable middle portion is expanded in the
  second shape such that it contacts the inner wall of the uterus to help prevent migration of
  the contraceptive device out of the uterus.
          [0020]     In some embodiments, the two tissue contact surfaces, the middle
  portion and the spring portion comprise one shape memory wire. In some embodiments,
  the spring portion, the middle portion, and two arms extending from the middle portion
  comprise a shape memory wire, and the device further includes two tissue contact
  members, each of which is coupled with one of the opposing ends of the shape memory
  wire to form the tissue contact surfaces. In some embodiments, the contraceptive device
  may include a shape memory wire made of a material such as but not limited to Nitiniol,
  other shape memory metal alloys and/or shape memory polymers. In one embodiment, the
  shape memory wire may have a diameter of between about 0.015 inch and about 0.017
  inch. In one embodiment, the middle portion may be expandable, in the second shape, to a
  width approximately equal to a distance between the two tissue contact surfaces. In one
  embodiment, the device may be compressible into a third, fully collapsed configuration for
  positioning within a delivery sheath having an inner diameter of between about 2.70 mm
  and about 2.90 mm.
          [0021]     Some embodiments may further include a substance coupled with the
  device for delivery to the uterus, such as but not limited to one or more hormones,
  spermicides, copper, zinc and/or therapeutic agents. In some embodiments, the substance
  may be coupled with the device via at least one substance delivery member attached to the
  device. In some embodiments, the substance may be copper, and a total exposed surface
  area of the substance delivery member(s) is no more than approximately 200 square
  millimeters. In some embodiments, the contraceptive device may include a shape memory
  wire, and the substance delivery member(s) may include a first copper sleeve disposed over
  the shape memory wire at or near a first one of the tissue contact surfaces, a second
                                              -7-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  copper sleeve disposed over the shape memory wire at or near a second one of the tissue
  contact surfaces, and a third copper sleeve disposed over the shape memory wire at or
  near the spring portion.
           [0022]      In some embodiments, a contraceptive device for focally delivering a
  substance in a uterus may include an elongate shape memory member having two opposing
  ends and a spring portion between the opposing ends and at least one substance delivery
  member disposed along a minority of a length of the shape memory member at a location
  to locally deliver the substance, when the contraceptive device is placed in the uterus, to at
  least one of an area near a fallopian tube or an area near a cervical os.
           [0023]      In some embodiments, the substance delivery member(s) may include
  two substance delivery sleeves, where each of the sleeves is disposed over the shape
  memory member at or near one of the opposing ends. In some embodiments, the substance
  delivery member(s) may include a substance delivery sleeve disposed over the shape
  memory member at or near the spring portion. In some embodiments, the substance
  delivery member(s) may include at least one substance delivery sleeve disposed over the
  shape memory member at or near each of the opposing ends and at least one substance
  delivery sleeve disposed over the shape memory member at or near the spring portion. In
  some embodiments, the substance may include copper or any of a number of other
  spermicidal agents. In one embodiment, the substance is copper, and the substance delivery
  members have a total surface area no more than about 200 square millimeters. Optionally,
  the device may further include a hormone delivery member disposed at a different location
  along the shape memory member from a location of the substance delivery member.
           [0024]      In another aspect, an intrauterine device for promoting contraception
  without blocking the fallopian tubes may include an elongate shape memory member
  having two opposing ends, a spring portion at approximately a midpoint between the two
  ends, a default configuration when released from constraint, and a collapsed configuration
  when constrained. The device may further include least one copper delivery member
  coupled with the shape memory member at or near each of the two ends for focally
  delivering a substance to a uterus in an area at or near openings of the fallopian tubes,
  where a total exposed surface area of the substance delivery members is no more than 200
  square millimeters.
                                                -8-

WO 2014/028499                                                               PCT/US2013/054743
            [0025]      In some embodiments, the shape memory member may further include
  an expandable middle portion that expands when the two opposing ends are forced toward
  one another by an inner wall of the uterus, wherein the expanded middle portion may
  contact the wall of the uterus to help prevent migration of the device out of the uterus. In
  some embodiments, the substance delivery members, when pushed together by the inner
  wall of the uterus pushing together the opposing ends, form an approximately continuous
  line across the uterus. In some embodiments, the elongate member is made of a shape
  memory material, such as but not limited to Nitinol, other shape memory metal alloys
  and/or shape memory polymers.
            [0026]      In some embodiments, the two opposing ends may be looped portions
  of the elongate member, and the elongate member may be made of Nitinol. In some
  embodiments, the spring portion may be a spring having at least one coil formed in the
  elongate member. In some embodiments, the device in the collapsed configuration may be
  sufficiently small to fit within a delivery sheath having an inner diameter of between about
  2.70 mm and about 2.90 mm. In some embodiments, the elongate member may have a
  diameter of between about 0.015 inch and about 0.017 inch. In some embodiments, the
  substance delivery member(s) may include multiple substance delivery sleeves disposed
  over the shape memory member. In some embodiments, the sleeves may include at least
  one sleeve at or near one of the ends, one sleeve at or near an opposite end, and one sleeve
  at or near the spring portion.
            [0027]      In another aspect, a contraceptive device that may also be used for
  approximating contractility of a uterus may include an elongate shape memory member
  having two opposing ends, a spring portion at a midpoint of the elongate member, a
  default expanded configuration, and a collapsed configuration. The device may also
  include two tissue contact surfaces, each of which is disposed at one of the opposing ends
  of the elongate member and a middle portion of the elongate member that expands in
  direct proportion to compression pressures acting upon the two tissue contact surfaces
  such that a separation distance of the middle portion of the elongate member may be used
  to approximate contractility of the uterus. Optionally, the device may also include at least
  one radiopaque marker or material on the middle portion of the elongate member to
  facilitate visualization of the middle portion using a radiographic visualization device.
                                                 -9-

WO 2014/028499                                                               PCT/US2013/054743
           [0028]     In another aspect, a contraceptive system may include a shape memory,
  intrauterine, contraceptive device and a delivery device for housing and delivering the
  contraceptive device into the uterus through a cervix. The contraceptive device may
  include two tissue contact surfaces at or near opposing ends of the device and an
  expandable middle portion between the tissue contact surfaces. The contraceptive device
  may be configured to move from a first, default configuration when unconstrained to a
  second, partially collapsed configuration when the two tissue contact surfaces are forced
  toward one another by an inner wall of a uterus, where the expandable middle portion is
  expanded in the second shape such that it contacts the inner wall of the uterus to help
  prevent migration of the contraceptive device out of the uterus. The delivery device may
  include a shaft having a tapered distal tip and a pusher member disposed inside the shaft
  for at least one of advancing the contraceptive device out of the distal tip or maintaining a
  position of the contraceptive device within the shaft while the shaft is retracted.
           [0029]     In some embodiments, the contraceptive device may be preloaded into
  the shaft of the delivery device before providing the system to a customer. For example, in
  some embodiments, the contraceptive device may be preloaded through a proximal end of
  the shaft of the delivery device. In some embodiments, the shaft of the delivery device may
  have an inner diameter of no more than about 3.00 mm and an outer diameter of no more
  than about 3.40 mm. In some embodiments, the contraceptive device may include a Nitinol
  wire. In some embodiments, the shaft of the delivery device may include an inner surface
  having at least one slot for directing advancement of the contraceptive device out of the
  distal tip. Optionally, the contraceptive device may further include at least one substance
  delivery member for delivering a substance within the uterus. In some embodiments, the
  substance is copper, the substance delivery member(s) include at least one substance
  delivery member at or near each of the tissue contact surfaces, and a total exposed surface
  area of the substance delivery member(s) is no more than about 200 square millimeters.
           [0030]     In another aspect, A contraceptive device for focally delivery a
  substance in a uterus comprises an elongate shape memory member having two opposing
  ends located at each end of a pair of arms, a portion between the opposing ends
  comprising a portion of the pair of arms that cross each other in a series of twists, wherein
  the arms exit the series of twists to form the opposing ends, and at least one substance
  delivery member disposed along a portion of the elongate shape memory member at a
                                               -10-

WO 2014/028499                                                               PCT/US2013/054743
  location to locally deliver the substance, when the contraceptive device is placed in the
  uterus, to at least one of an area near a fallopian tube or an area near a cervical os, or both.
  The length, placement, or number of turns of the series of twists may at least in part define
  the device stiffness.
           [0031]      In another aspect, an intrauterine contraceptive device comprises two
  tissue contact surfaces at or near opposing ends of the device. The contraceptive device is
  configured to move from a first, default configuration when unconstrained to a second,
  partially collapsed configuration when the two tissue contact surfaces are forced toward
  one another by an inner wall of a uterus.           Furthermore, the contraceptive device is
  configured such that at least one compressive load of 0.02 to 0.035 pounds-force partially
  collapses the device at least one displacement amount between 0.2 and 0.3 inches from the
  default configuration.     The device may be further configured such that at least one
  compressive load of 0.015 to 0.025 pounds-force partially collapses the device at least one
  displacement amount between 0.1 and 0.2 inches from the default configuration or may be
  further configured such that at least one compressive load of 0.005 to 0.015 pounds-force
  partially collapses the device at least one displacement amount between 0.05 and 0.1
  inches from the default configuration. In some implementations of this device the device
  may be configured such that at least one compressive load of 0.015 to 0.025 pounds-force
  partially collapses the device at least one displacement amount between 0.1 and 0.2 inches
  from the default configuration or may is configured such that at least one compressive load
  of 0.005 to 0.015 pounds-force partially collapses the device at least one displacement
  amount between 0.05 and 0.1 inches from the default configuration.
           [0032]      In another aspect, an intrauterine contraceptive device comprises two
  tissue contact surfaces at or near opposing ends of the device. The contraceptive device is
  configured to move from a first, default configuration when unconstrained to a second,
  partially collapsed configuration when the two tissue contact surfaces are forced toward
  one another by an inner wall of a uterus. The device is configured such that at least one
  compressive load of 0.015 to 0.025 pounds-force partially collapses the device at least one
  displacement amount between 0.1 and 0.2 inches from the default configuration.
           [0033]      In another aspect, an intrauterine contraceptive device comprises two
  arms and a middle portion forming an overall T shape, the device having a height defined
  by the perpendicular distance between the bottom of the middle portion of the device at
                                                 -11-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  the base of the T and a line joining the two outermost ends of the two arms across the top
  of the T, and having a width defined by the linear distance between the two outermost
  ends of the two arms across the top of the T. One or more retrieval strings are attached to
  the contraceptive device with one or more free ends.          The length of the one or more
  retrieval strings and the location at which the one or more retrieval strings are attached to
  the device are such that when the one or more free ends are fully extended perpendicular
  to the line joining the two outermost ends of the arms across the top of the T, the
  perpendicular distance between the farthest free end and the line joining the two outermost
  ends of the arms across the top of the T is between about 10 cm and about 11 cm. The
  height of the device may be 2.8 to 3.2 cm and wherein the one or more retrieval strings are
  attached to the middle portion at or near the bottom of the middle portion.            In this
  implementation, the length of the farthest string extension measured from the bottom of
  the middle portion to the farthest free end may be about 7.5 cm.
           [0034]     In another aspect, an intrauterine contraceptive device comprises two
  arms and a middle portion forming an overall T shape, the device having a height defined
  by the perpendicular distance between the bottom of the middle portion of the device at
  the base of the T and a line joining the two outermost ends of the two arms across the top
  of the T, and having a width defined by the linear distance between the two outermost
  ends of the two arms across the top of the T, two tissue contact surfaces at or near the
  outermost ends of the two arms, and copper coupled to the device having a total exposed
  surface area of no more than about 200 square mm.               The contraceptive device is
  configured to move from a first, default configuration when unconstrained to a second,
  partially collapsed configuration when the two tissue contact surfaces are forced toward
  one another by an inner wall of a uterus. The width of the device when the device is in the
  first default configuration is between 3.0 and 3.4 cm. In addition, at least one compressive
  load of 0.02 to 0.035 pounds-force partially collapses the device at least one displacement
  amount between 0.2 and 0.3 inches from the default configuration.
           [0035]     These and other aspects and embodiments of the invention are
  described in greater detail below, with reference to the drawing figures.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           [0036]     Fig. 1 is a front view of an intrauterine device (IUD), according to one
  embodiment;
                                                -12-

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
           [0037]     Figs. 2A-2F show a cross-sectional view of a uterus, cervix and
  fallopian tubes, illustrating a method for delivering an intrauterine device (IUD) into a
  uterus, according to one embodiment;
           [0038]     Fig. 3 is a front view of an IUD, according to an alternative
  embodiment;
           [0039]     Figs. 4A and 4B illustrate a method for using the IUD of Fig. 3,
  according to one embodiment;
           [0040]     Fig. 5 is a front view of an IUD including copper sleeves for focal
  copper delivery, according to one embodiment;
           [0041]     Figs. 6A and 6B are front and perspective views, respectively, of an
  IUD including copper sleeves for focal copper delivery, according to an alternative
  embodiment;
           [0042]     Figs. 7A and 7B are cross-sectional views of a uterus, showing an
  insertion location and a migrated location of an IUD such as that shown in Figs. 6A and
  6B, according to one embodiment;
           [0043]     Figs. 8A and 8B are cross-sectional views of a uterus, showing
  expanded and partially contracted views of an IUD including copper sleeves for focal
  copper delivery, according to one embodiment;
           [0044]     Figs. 9A-9D are front, bottom, side and perspective views, respectively,
  of an IUD including copper sleeves for focal copper delivery, according to another
  alternative embodiment; and
           [0045]     Fig. 10 is a front view of an IUD including a twisted middle portion and
  copper sleeves for focal copper delivery, according to one embodiment;
           [0046]     Fig.   11   is a graph illustrating   advantageous    force-displacement
  characteristics for an IUD;
           [0047]     Fig. 12 is a front view of an IUD with an optimized retrieval string; and
           [0048]     Fig. 13 is a perspective view of an IUD delivery device, according to
  one embodiment.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
           [0049]     Referring to Figure 1, in one embodiment, a contraceptive intrauterine
  device (IUD) 1010 may include a shape memory, elongate member 1012 and two tissue
                                                -13-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  contact members 1016, 1018 disposed at opposite ends of elongate member 1012.
  Elongate member 1012 may include a spring portion 1014, typically but not necessarily
  disposed approximately at a midpoint between the opposite ends of elongate member
  1012, an expandable middle portion 1020, two arms 1015 extending from middle portion
  1020, and bends 1022 between middle portion 1020 and arms 1015. All or a part of each
  tissue contact member 1016, 1018 may comprise a tissue contact surface, in other words,
  a surface that typically contacts an inner wall of a uterus when IUD 1010 is deployed in
  the uterus.
           [0050]     Elongate member 1012 is manufactured from a resilient, shape memory
  material, such as but not limited to Nitinol (nickel titanium alloy), spring stainless steel,
  other shape memory metal alloys, shape memory polymers, or the like, and has a default
  (or "predetermined") expanded configuration as shown in Figure 1. Elongate member
  1012 may be compressed into a low profile, collapsed configuration, to facilitate
  preloading of IUD 1010 into a delivery sheath and delivery of IUD 1010 through a cervix
  via the sheath. When released from compression within the uterus, IUD 1010 springs back
  into its default expanded configuration to allow tissue contact members 1016, 1018 to
  contact the uterine wall and, by the force inherent in its shape memory material, apply
  sufficient pressure against the inner wall of the uterus either when seated in its proper
  position, when pushed downward in the uterus, or both, to maintain IUD 1010 in position
  within the uterus. In many cases, IUD 1010 may not spring back into its fully expanded,
  default configuration when delivered into the uterus, due to force applied upon it by the
  uterine wall. Thus, it is possible to discuss an "expanded configuration" of IUD 1010
  without necessarily meaning that it is fully expanded to its default configuration.
           [0051]     In some embodiments, IUD 1010 may be configured to assume a
  partially collapsed configuration, in which the uterine wall has pushed the two tissue
  contact members 1016, 1018 together to cause middle portion 1020 to expand laterally.
  This partially collapsed configuration is described in further detail below. Generally, this
  configuration may occur when forces applied by the uterine wall cause IUD 1010 to
  migrate slightly in an inferior direction (i.e., toward the cervical os). As middle portion
  1020 expands, it may help prevent farther inferior migration by contacting the inner uterine
  wall and thus acting as a stop mechanism.
                                                -14-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
           [0052]     In its fully expanded configuration, such as in Figure 1, (or when
  partially expanded) IUD 1010 in some embodiments applies outwardly directed pressure
  against the uterine wall that is sufficient only to help maintain IUD 1010 in a desired
  location in the uterus and prevent or at least limit inferior migration. In alternative
  embodiments, IUD 1010 may apply a greater amount of pressure against the uterine wall,
  such that the applied pressure helps facilitate or enhance the contraceptive effect. Various
  embodiments of IUD 1010 described herein may thus be "pressure-applying" or "non
  pressure-applying," when they are seated at their proper position, but in either case they
  will be configured to provide effective contraception. Thus, any particular embodiment
  described herein should not be interpreted to limit the claims to a particular amount of
  pressure applied to a uterus, unless such limitation is specifically set forth in a claim. It
  will further be appreciated that the amount of pressure applied by the device against the
  uterine wall will depend on the amount of device compression caused by the uterine wall,
  which will change depending on the width of the default expanded configuration of the
  device and the normal width of the uterine cavity at the location where the device is
  positioned.   As explained further below, this outward pressure may be at or near zero
  when the device is properly positioned, and may increase if the device migrates downward
  to a narrower portion of the uterine cavity. This increase in compression as the device
  moves downward can help maintain the device in its proper position, even when little to no
  pressure is applied by the device when properly positioned, because the lowest energy
  state for the device corresponds to the less expanded configuration (or completely
  expanded default configuration) associated with proper placement. This can also help the
  device migrate to the proper position even if placed lower in the uterine cavity upon initial
  insertion.
           [0053]     As illustrated in Figure 1, in one embodiment, spring portion 1014 is
  disposed at the vertex (or bottom) of elongate member 1012, middle portion 1020 extends
  upward from spring portion 1014 in approximately an elongate oval shape, elongate
  member 1012 crosses over itself and forms bends 1022, and then it extends into arms
  1015. Although this configuration is described in reference to this embodiment, IUD 1010
  may have any       of a number       of different expanded    configurations   in alternative
  embodiments. Furthermore, although the term "spring portion" is used to describe a
  portion of elongate member 1012 that helps confer laterally directed pressure to tissue
                                               -15-

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
  contact members 1016, 1018, spring portion 1014 is not necessarily a spring. In many of
  the embodiments, for example, spring portion 1014 is simply a midpoint of elongate
  member 1012 that is formed as a loop. In other embodiments, spring portion 1014 may
  have any of a number of different shapes.
           [0054]      IUD 1010 may be said to have a wingspan (or "width") W, as measured
  from a tip of one tissue contact member 1016 to a tip of the other tissue contact member
  1018. IUD 1010 may also be said to have a height (or "length") H, as measured from the
  bottom of spring portion 1014 to the tops of tissue contact members 1016, 1018.
  Wingspan W and height H are generally selected to provide IUD 1010 with a desired
  amount of laterally directed pressure at tissue contact members 1016, 1018, so that IUD
  1010 will maintain itself in a given location within the uterus and exert sufficient pressure
  to promote contraception. In one embodiment, for example, IUD 1010 may have a height
  H of between about 10 to 50 mm, with about 28 mm and about 32 mm being
  advantageous, and a wingspan W of between about 18 mm and about 54 mm, with about
  30 to about 34 mm being found advantageous in some implementations. Alternative sizes
  may be provided to enhance the effectiveness of IUD 1010 in different female anatomies,
  but because IUD 1010 is sufficiently resilient and the uterus is typically a closed space,
  IUD 1010 is generally a "one size fits all" device.
           [0055]      As just mentioned, the uterus (or "uterine cavity") is generally not an
  open space. Even though the uterus is typically illustrated as an open space, such as in
  Figures 2A-2F, this is simply a schematic illustration, because the uterus itself is a closed
  space. IUD 1010 should, therefore, have sufficient laterally directed pressure when
  released from a delivery device within the uterus to expand within the closed uterine
  cavity. The uterus is also typically a moist environment, so IUD 1010 should have
  sufficient resiliency to overcome any surface tension that might hold the opposed surfaces
  of the inner wall of the uterus together. In embodiments in which substances (copper,
  hormone, etc.) are not included, the IUD 1010 may be configured to apply sufficient
  laterally directed pressure when seated in its proper position to promote contraception
  without the presence of any additional contraceptive substances. It is believed that
  pressure applied to the inner uterine wall by tissue contact members 1016, 1018 in these
  implementations may by itself disrupt the uterine environment in such a way to cause a
  spermicidal effect, thus preventing conception. The pressure exerted against the uterine
                                               -16-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  wall by IUD 1010 may cause an inflammatory response, ischemia, compression of the
  spiral artery and/or a combination thereof, and any or all of these may help promote
  contraception.      Devices which include no additional contraceptive substances are
  illustrated in Figures 1 through 4.        Devices which include additional contraceptive
  substances are illustrated in Figures 5 through 10 and 12. Depending on whether such
  additional substances are provided, the optimal size and compression characteristics may
  be different.
            [0056]     Finally, IUD 1010 should have sufficient laterally directed pressure to
  inhibit inferior migration of the device within the uterus or expulsion of the device from the
  uterus. As is described in greater detail below, IUD 1010 likely has the greatest
  contraceptive effect when it resides in a certain portion of the uterus, so ideally IUD 1010
  will have sufficient outwardly directed pressure at at least some positions within the
  uterine cavity to prevent inferior migration or expulsion of the device. In some
  embodiments, IUD 1010 also has a configuration and applies sufficient force to promote
  superior migration of the device after delivery. At the same time, another objective of
  IUD 1010 is to prevent perforation of the uterine wall, so IUD 1010 should not have an
  excessive amount of outwardly directed pressure.
            [0057]     IUD 1010 generates laterally directed, expansile pressure due to the
  nature of its resilient, shape memory material (typically but not necessarily Nitinol), the
  diameter of its material, and its default, expanded shape and size, including spring portion
  1014. Spring portion 1014 may in some embodiments be an actual spring or looped
  portion of elongate member 1012, while in alternative embodiments it may be any of a
  number of other suitable shapes that help confer laterally directed pressure to elongate
  member 1012. This laterally directed pressure pushes tissue contact members 1016, 1018
  against the uterine wall with sufficient pressure that they first move along the wall to a
  desired location for promoting contraception and then maintain their position on (or
  "adhere to") the wall at that location. IUD 1010 may also have a shape, size, lateral
  pressure, and size and shape of tissue contact members 1016, 1018 that help prevent tissue
  contact members 1016, 1018 from advancing (or "migrating") into the fallopian tubes. It
  may be advantageous for IUD 1010 to avoid entering the fallopian tubes, because this may
  facilitate removal of IUD 1010 when desired. Delivery, adherence to the uterine wall and
  other characteristics of IUD 1010 are described in further detail below. As mentioned, in
                                                -17-

WO 2014/028499                                                               PCT/US2013/054743
  one embodiment, elongate member 1012 is made of Nitinol. In various embodiments, the
  diameter of elongate member 1012 may be selected to help provide a desired amount of
  lateral pressure generation when the device is in the default expanded configuration of
  Figure 1. For example, in some embodiments, elongate member 1012 may be a Nitinol
  wire with a diameter of between about 0.010" and about 0.025", between .015" and .017"
  or between about 0.014" and about 0.015".
           [0058]     In alternative embodiments, resilient materials other than Nitinol may be
  used, such as other shape memory metal alloys, spring stainless steel or the like. Nitinol is
  typically preferred, however, due to its ability to remain in a compressed configuration
  (such as in a delivery catheter) for long periods of time, fully spring back into its expanded
  configuration, and maintain a constant but gentle pressure against the uterine wall for
  many years of useful life of IUD 1010. The material properties of a Nitinol IUD 1010
  allow it to be compressed into a collapsed or low profile configuration for storage in a
  delivery device, stored in that configuration for long periods of time, and then delivered
  out of the delivery device to assume its default, expanded configuration. Other resilient
  materials typically do not retain their full resilient properties over time in this way,
  although to the extent other materials would serve this purpose they may be used in
  alternative embodiments. Storing and/or packaging IUD 1010 within a delivery device
  makes its use easier, because the end user (typically a physician or physician's assistant) is
  not required to load the device into the delivery device. By contrast, currently available
  IUDs typically must be loaded into their delivery devices by a physician or physician's
  assistant before use. Initiation and/or increase in compression from inferior migration can
  produce gentle lateral pressure along the inner uterine wall inhibiting expulsion of IUD
  1010 out of the uterus, which is one of the potential complications of currently available
  IUDs.
           [0059]     Tissue contact members 1016, 1018 may be comprised of any of a
  number of suitable materials and may have a number of different sizes and shapes. In some
  embodiments, IUD 1010 may include tissue contact members 1016, 1018 made of
  different or the same material as elongate member 1012. Alternatively, an IUD may
  include "tissue contact surfaces" that are part of elongate member 1012. These tissue
  contact surfaces may also be referred to as "tissue contact points" or "end points." Tissue
  contact members 1016, 1018 also generally include tissue contact surfaces (i.e., a portion
                                               -18-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  of each tissue contact member 1016, 1018 that contacts the uterine wall). Thus, the
  phrases "tissue contact members," "tissue contact surfaces," "tissue contact points" and
  "end points" may sometimes be used herein interchangeably and should not be interpreted
  to limit the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.
            [0060]     Generally, the material, size and shape of tissue contact members 1016,
  1018 are selected to prevent, or at least reduce the tendency for, tissue in-growth of tissue
  contact members 1016, 1018 into uterine wall tissue while also preventing inferior
  migration or expulsion of IUD 1010. Tissue in-growth prevention is important for
  facilitating later removal of IUD 1010 from the uterus if and when desired. This prevention
  of tissue in-growth is in direct contrast to a number of prior art permanent contraception
  or sterilization devices that purposely try to promote tissue in-growth, for example to
  permanently attach a device within the fallopian tubes. IUD 1010, in contrast, is usually
  easily removed and does not permanently adhere to the uterine wall. In one embodiment,
  tissue contact members 1016, 1018 may be made of a high density polyethylene. In
  alternative embodiments, tissue contact members 1016, 1018 may be made of any of a
  number of alternative, typically non-porous materials, such as but not limited to metals,
  plastics, elastomers such as silicone, or combinations thereof Furthermore, tissue contact
  members 1016, 1018 may be coated, such as with a coating to prevent tissue in-growth, or
  may be impregnated with various medications or other substances, such as but not limited
  to hormone, spermicide or the like. Tissue contact members 1016, 1018 may also be made
  of (or coated with) an echogenic material to facilitate visualization of IUD 1010 using
  transvaginal ultrasound or other visualization techniques.
            [0061]     Tissue contact members 1016, 1018 may have any suitable size and
  shape but are generally configured to apply a desired amount of pressure to the uterine
  wall to maintain the position of IUD 1010, in some embodiments to promote
  contraception, and to prevent tissue in-growth, without causing pain or uterine wall
  perforation, a well known risk of currently available intrauterine devices. Tissue contact
  members 1016, 1018 may also be sized so that they can be effectively delivered through a
  low profile delivery device without pain to the patient. To achieve these goals, tissue
  contact members 1016, 1018 according to one embodiment have a diameter of between
  about 1 mm and about 8 mm, and preferably between about 2 mm and about 4 mm, and
  even more preferably between about 2.5 mm and about 3.5 mm. Tissue contact members
                                                -19-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  1016, 1018 according to this embodiment may have a length of between about 3.0 mm and
  about 5.0 mm, and preferably between about 3.5 mm and about 3.6 mm. Also according to
  one embodiment, each tissue contact member 1016, 1018 has a surface area of between
  about 30 mm squared and about 45 mm squared, and preferably between about 31 mm
  squared and about 32 mm squared. Providing tissue contact members 1016, 1018 with a
  relatively large surface area (while keeping them small enough to fit within a delivery
  device) may help prevent uterine wall perforation and in-growth, while still allowing for
  the application of a desired amount of laterally directed pressure against the uterine wall.
           [0062]     Referring now to Figures 2A-2F, a portion of the female reproductive
  anatomy is shown in schematic form in cross-section, and a method for delivering IUD
  1010 to a uterus U is illustrated. As shown in Fig. 2A, the vagina V leads into the cervix
  C, which in turn leads into the uterus U (illustrated schematically as an open cavity). The
  uterus U has an inner wall W, which in this application is referred to simply as the uterine
  wall. Two fallopian tubes F branch off of the uterus U. During the natural reproductive
  cycle, eggs travel down the fallopian tubes F to be fertilized by sperm (typically within a
  fallopian tube F), and the fertilized egg then implants on the uterine wall W to grow into a
  fetus. IUD 1010 works primarily or exclusively by producing a "hostile environment" in
  the uterus U for sperm and thus preventing fertilization, or secondarily, if fertilization
  occurs, by blocking implantation.
           [0063]     With reference to Figure 2B, as a first step in a method for IUD
  delivery, an IUD delivery device 1020 containing IUD 1010 (not visible in Figure 2B) may
  be advanced through the cervix C into the uterus U. While housed in delivery device 1020,
  IUD 1010 is in a collapsed, low profile configuration to facilitate its passage through the
  cervix C. In some embodiments, such as the one pictured, IUD 1010 may be completely
  contained within delivery device 1020 during advancement of delivery device 1020
  through the cervix C. As will be described further below, IUD 1010 may be preloaded into
  a proximal end of delivery device 1020, due to its shape memory material. This proximal
  preloading allows delivery device 1020 to have a tapered distal tip 1021, which facilitates
  advancement of delivery device 1020 through the cervix C with little or no pain or
  discomfort. Proximal preloading of IUD 1010 into delivery device 1020 also makes the
  process easier for a user, since currently available IUDs must be pulled into the distal end
  of a delivery device by the physician or physician's assistant prior to use. Delivery device
                                               -20-

WO 2014/028499                                                               PCT/US2013/054743
  1020 may take any of a number of suitable forms, typically including an outer sheath and
  an inner pusher member. One embodiment of a delivery device is described is described in
  further detail below with reference to Figure 10.
           [0064]     Figures 2C and 2D show the next steps in an IUD delivery process,
  according to one embodiment. Figure 2C illustrates IUD 1010 partially expelled from
  delivery device 1020 into the uterus U. In Figure 2D, IUD 1010 has been completely
  expelled from delivery device 1020 but is still in contact with a pusher member 1022 of
  delivery device 1020. At this point, tissue contact members 1016, 1018 are contacting the
  uterine wall W. In various embodiments, IUD 1010 may be expelled from delivery device
  1020 using any of a number of different techniques and mechanisms. In one embodiment,
  for example, pusher member 1022 may be held in a stable position, and a sheath on
  delivery device 1020 may be retracted to expose IUD 1010. Alternatively, a sheath may be
  held in a stable position and pusher member 1022 may be advanced to push IUD 1010 out
  of the distal end of delivery device 1020. In another embodiment, pusher member 1022
  may be advanced while a sheath is retracted. In other alternative embodiments, other
  suitable means for expelling IUD 1010 from delivery device 1020 may be used.
           [0065]     Comparing the position of IUD 1010 in Figures 2C and 2D shows that
  IUD 1010 may advance along the uterine wall W toward the fallopian tubes F during
  and/or after delivery to eventually seat (or "adhere") in an area just below (or "inferior to")
  the fallopian tube openings. Alternatively, IUD 1010 may simply be delivered directly to
  the desired location within the uterus U rather than delivering it to an initial location and
  having it ride along the uterine wall W before seating at its final location. The words "seat"
  and "adhere" do not mean that IUD 1010 permanently attaches to the uterine wall. In fact,
  as previously mentioned, tissue contact members 1016, 1018 and IUD 1010 are designed
  to prevent tissue in-growth and permanent attachment to the uterine wall. "Seating" and
  "adhering" are thus generally used to simply mean maintaining a relative position along the
  uterine wall. Ideally, but not necessarily, each tissue contact member 1016, 1018 will seat
  in an area of the uterine wall W within approximately 2 cm inferior of a fallopian tube
  opening, and preferably within approximately 1 cm inferior of a fallopian tube opening.
  This is believed to be an ideal area for IUD 1010 to reside for contraception, although an
  exact location for IUD 1010 within the uterus is not required.
                                                -21-

WO 2014/028499                                                               PCT/US2013/054743
           [0066]      Movement of IUD 1010 along the uterine wall and adherence of IUD
  1010 at a given location are caused by a combination of the amount of outward pressure
  produced inherently by IUD 1010, the size and shape of IUD 1010, the size, shape and
  physical characteristics of tissue contact members 1016, 1018, and the size and shape of
  the uterus U. IUD 1010 is configured to have enough outwardly directed pressure and
  other characteristics to make IUD 1010 adhere to the uterine wall W, typically near the
  fallopian   tube orifices,   without actually entering the fallopian tubes F. In some
  implementations, pressure applied to the uterine wall W by the IUD 1010 when in its
  proper position is believed to be at least one reason that IUD 1010 prevents pregnancy.
  The constant, gentle pressure applied to the uterine wall W is believed to disrupt the
  natural uterine environment. In alternative embodiments, described further below, an IUD
  may simply contact the uterine wall and not apply any significant amount of pressure to the
  wall. In these embodiments, in other words, the IUD contacts the uterine wall with
  sufficient force only to maintain positioning of the IUD, in which case the IUD may
  advantageously include some form of substance delivery mechanism (copper, hormone,
  etc.) to provide contraceptive effect.
           [0067]      In its fully expanded, default configuration, IUD 1010 may have a
  wingspan or width W (described previously), of between about 18 mm and about 54 mm,
  depending upon the anatomical characteristics of the patient. The wingspan W of IUD
  1010 may be selected at least in part due to the distance between the uterine wall W just
  inferior to one fallopian tube F and the uterine wall W just inferior to the opposite fallopian
  tube F. For example, the average intra-ostial distance in nulliparous women is 29.2 mm,
  and the average intra-ostial distance in parous women is 30.0 mm, so the IUD wingspan
  may in some embodiments be based at least in part on these measurements. ("Assessment
  Of The Uterine Cavity And The Intraostial Distance Using Hysterosalpingography",
  Fertility and Sterility, Volume 88, Supplement 1, September 2007, Page S202, J. G.
  Bromer, F. Sanguinetti, M. Tal, P. Patrizio. Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive
  Sciences, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Conn.; Department of
  Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Conn.).
           [0068]      As described previously, when expanded, one embodiment of IUD 1010
  applies laterally directed pressure against the uterine wall W via tissue contact members
  1016, 1018 to cause irritation/inflnammation, ischemia, compression of arterial structures,
                                                -22-

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
  and/or other effects that promote contraception. Additionally, IUD 1010 may apply
  sufficient pressure to slightly distort the shape of the uterine wall W, which is believed to
  further promote contraception. The amount of laterally directed pressure applied to the
  uterine wall W is important for proper functioning of IUD 1010, both for adherence (and
  thus migration and expulsion prevention), and also for the added effect of uterine wall
  distortion (at least in some embodiments with no additional contraceptive substances). In
  various embodiments, a range of the pressure applied by tissue contact members 1016,
  1018 to the uterine wall is between about 0.002 pounds-pressure and about 0.025 pounds
  pressure, and may advantageously be between about 0.002 pounds-pressure and about
  0.015 pounds-pressure.
           [0069]      Referring to Figure 2E, IUD 1010 is shown in place in the uterus U,
  completely disconnected from delivery device 1020. At this point, delivery device 1020
  may be removed through the cervix C, leaving IUD 1010 in place, as shown in Figure 2F.
  IUD 1010 then remains in the uterus U for as long as desired to promote contraception.
           [0070]      IUD 1010 may be left in the uterus U permanently or may be removed
  at any time. Because IUD 1010 is easily delivered and removed, it allows for nonsurgical
  contraception as an office procedure and without the need for surgery or the necessity for
  visualization either radiologically, ultrasonically, or with a hysteroscope. IUD 1010 uses
  radial pressure and inherent properties in its construction to promote contraception, thus
  eliminating the need for hormones or copper in the device. IUD 1010 also uses radial
  pressure prevent inferior migration or expulsion. As such, IUD 1010 may be used for
  permanent or temporary contraception. As described further below, although IUD 1010
  does not require the use of hormones, copper or other substances, in alternative
  embodiments it may also be adapted for local delivery of these or other therapeutic agents.
  In other alternative embodiments, IUD 1020 may be configured to provide contraceptive
  effect primarily or exclusively via delivery of a substance (copper, hormone, etc.) and not
  via application of pressure. IUD 1010 may also be used, in some embodiments, for
  treatment of one or more conditions such as abnormal uterine bleeding and/or pelvic pain,
  in addition to providing contraception.
           [0071]      Referring now to Figure 3, in another embodiment, a contraceptive
  device (or "IUD") 2100 may have a similar configuration to that described above, but may
  have an elongate shape memory member 2102 formed into loops at opposite ends to
                                                -23-

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
  provide tissue contact surfaces (or "end points") 2108a, 2108b, rather than having tissue
  contact members attached to elongate member 2102. In all other aspects, the embodiment
  of IUD 2100 in Figure 3 is the same as the embodiment of IUD 1010 in Figure 1. As with
  the previously described embodiment, contraceptive device 2100 may include elongate
  member 2102, an expandable middle portion 2104, a spring portion 2106, two bends 2110
  and two arms 2112. In various embodiments, elongate member 2102 may have a
  predominantly flat (or "two-dimensional") configuration, as shown. Alternatively, elongate
  member 2102 may have a more three-dimensional configuration (not shown). For example,
  one or more portions of elongate member 2102 may be curved or bent, which in some
  embodiments may help elongate member 2102 conform to a curved shape of a uterus.
           [0072]      Contraceptive device 2100 is shown, in Figure 3, in its fully expanded,
  unconstrained, default configuration. Contraceptive device 2100 may also be compressed
  into a long, thin configuration for placement within a delivery device (not shown), such as
  a delivery catheter or sheath, by pulling/pushing tissue contact surfaces 2108a, 2108b
  upward, away from spring portion 2106. The delivery device may be sufficiently small so
  that it can be passed through a cervix without causing pain or discomfort and without
  requiring mechanical dilation, anesthesia (topical, local or general) or expansion of the
  cervix, cervical canal or internal or external cervical os. In some embodiments, for
  example, contraceptive device 2100 may be compressible/collapsible to a diameter that fits
  within a delivery sheath having an inner diameter of between about 2.50 mm and about
  3.00 mm and more preferably between about 2.70 mm and about 2.90 mm, and an outer
  diameter of between about 2.80 mm and about 3.40 mm and more preferably between
  about 2.95 mm and about 3.20 mm.
           [0073]      When contraceptive device 2100 is released from its delivery catheter
  into the uterus, it expands to a configuration approximately like the configuration shown in
  Figure 3. Typically, tissue contact surfaces 2108a, 2108b will help device 2100 adhere to
  uterine wall tissue to remain in place near but not in the fallopian tubes. However, if
  contraceptive device 2100 begins to migrate down (or out of) the uterus, the uterine wall
  will pressure tissue contact members 2108a, 2108b together, thus pushing out the sides of
  middle portion 2104. The expanded sides of middle portion 2104 will then provide
  increased mechanical resistance, including but not limited to, contacting the uterine wall
  and helping to prevent or resist migration. The expansion of middle portion 2104 is
                                               -24-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  directly proportional to the amount of compression placed on tissue contact surfaces
  2108a and 2108b by the uterine wall, and thus the relative amount of contractility of the
  uterine wall. Thus, in some embodiments, the separation distance of middle portion 2104
  (and/of tissue contact surfaces 2108a, 2108b) may be used as a measurement of uterine
  contractility. This is described further with reference to Figures 4A and 4B.
           [0074]      Elongate member 2102 may be made of any suitable shape memory
  material, such as but not limited to Nitinol, other shape memory metal alloys or shape
  memory polymers. Tissue contact surfaces 2108a, 2108b may be made of the same
  material or a different material as elongate member 2102. Typically, tissue contact surfaces
  2108a, 2108b will be made of a material that resists slipping on the intrauterine wall but
  that also resists tissue ingrowth, as described previously. In some embodiments, tissue
  contact surfaces 2108a, 2108b may comprise balls of formed material, such as a polymer,
  deposited on the ends of elongate member 2102. In other embodiments, such as the one in
  Figure 3, tissue contact surfaces 2108a, 2108b are simply portions of elongate member
  2102. Generally, the term "end points" or "tissue contact members" or "tissue contact
  surfaces" or other similar terms are used herein to refer to portions of an IUD that contact
  the uterine wall when the IUD is in place. In many embodiments, the "tissue contact
  members" are at the ends of an elongate member and are the primary contact points of the
  IUD with the uterus. In some embodiments, however, such as the embodiment just
  described, IUD 2100 may include additional tissue contact surfaces or portions (for
  example expandable middle portion 2104), as will be described further below. Whether the
  term used in relation to a particular embodiment is "end points" or "tissue contact
  members" or "tissue contact surfaces" or some other similar term should not be interpreted
  to limit the scope of the invention as it is defined by the claims.
           [0075]      Forming tissue contact surfaces 2108a, 2108b as loops of elongate
  member 2102, as in the embodiment shown in Figure 3, may be advantageous for a
  number of reasons. One reason is that such a configuration will allow IUD 2100 to be
  collapsed down to a very small cross-sectional diameter for insertion into a delivery
  device, because the loops of elongate member 2102 can easily overlap. In some
  embodiments, for example, contraceptive device 2100 may be compressible/collapsible to a
  diameter that fits within a delivery sheath having an inner diameter of between about 2.50
  mm and about 3.00 mm and more preferably between about 2.70 mm and about 2.90 mm,
                                                 -25-

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
  and an outer diameter of between about 2.80 mm and about 3.40 mm and more preferably
  between about 2.95 mm and about 3.20 mm.
          [0076]      Referring now to Figures 4A and 4B, contraceptive device 2100 is
  shown immediately after being delivered into a uterus (Figure 4A) and after slight
  migration down the uterine wall (Figure 4B). In Figure 4A, device 2100 has been
  delivered, and tissue contact surfaces 2108a, 2108b are contacting the inner uterine wall U
  near but not within the fallopian tubes. In this position, tissue contact surfaces 2108a,
  2108b may apply pressure to the uterine wall U and are in an optimal position to prevent
  conception. In most cases, IUD 2100 will remain in this position or very close to it. In
  many cases, in fact, IUD 2100 may be delivered inferiorly and migrate superiorly,
  sometimes contacting the fundus of the uterus U, as will be described in further detail
  below. In some cases, however, and with reference now to Figure 4B, contraceptive
  device 2100 may be subject to contractile pressures of the uterus which may cause the
  device to slide (or "migrate") down the uterine wall U while remaining within the uterine
  cavity. Significant migration of any intrauterine device or ultimate expulsion of the device
  out of the uterus is obviously not desirable. Therefore, device 2100 is configured such that
  when end points 2108a, 2108b are forced closer together, middle portion 2104 expands or
  bows outward to contact the uterine wall U along secondary contact surfaces 2112.
  Secondary contact surfaces 2112 are simply lengths of middle portion 2104 that may
  contact the uterine wall upon expansion of middle portion 2104. Secondary contact
  surfaces 2112 and end points 2108a, 2108b thus act together to contact the uterine wall U
  and prevent inferior migration (or further inferior migration) of contraceptive device 2100.
  In this way, contraceptive device 2100 is configured to prevent its own inferior migration
  and/or expulsion out of the uterus.
          [0077]      Additionally, the amount of separation distance of secondary contact
  surfaces 2112 of middle portion 2104 is directly proportional to the amount of
  compression of end points 2108a and 2108b, and thus proportional to a relative amount of
  uterine wall contractility. This separation or expansion of middle portion 2104 may thus be
  used as a measurement tool for measuring approximate contractility of a uterus. In one
  embodiment, middle portion 2104 (or part of middle portion 2104) may be marked with
  one or more radiopaque markers or may be made radiopaque, to enhance visualization and
  thus facilitate measurement of uterine contractility. In other embodiments, end points
                                                -26-

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
  2108a, 2108b may have enhanced radiopacity for the same purpose. In still other
  embodiments, both middle portion 2104 and end points 2008a, 2008b may be made
  radiopaque or include radiopaque markers. A method may include visualizing the
  separation of middle portion 2104 and approximating an amount of uterine contractility
  from the separation.
           [0078]     The   IUD     embodiments    described   above   may  provide   effective
  contraception without the use of copper, Levonogestrel, other hormones or other drugs or
  substances. This may be advantageous in many circumstances, because any side effects
  potentially caused by such substances will be avoided by using a "substance-free" IUD. In
  some embodiments, however, it may be equally or even more advantageous to provide an
  IUD that delivers copper, hormone and/or one or more other substances in a limited dose
  to the uterus. For example, a focal substance delivery IUD according to one embodiment
  may deliver copper to a targeted area at or near each of the openings of the fallopian tubes
  and/or at or near a cervical os. Although some amount of copper will typically permeate
  most or all of the rest of the interior of the uterus, it may remain concentrated in the
  targeted areas of focal delivery. Thus, a lower dose of substance may be delivered while
  still providing effective contraception, since the delivery is targeted toward areas of
  enhanced contraceptive efficacy. In this way, a focal substance delivery IUD may provide
  contraception that is equal to or better than currently available devices while reducing or
  eliminating the side effects typically caused by such devices.
           [0079]     The IUD embodiments described below employ shape memory material
  to maintain contact with a uterine wall and also provide selective delivery of copper to
  targeted areas within the uterus. In alternative embodiments, any of the IUDs described
  above may be altered to include delivery of copper and/or one or more alternative
  substances. In some embodiments, an IUD may provide selective or targeted delivery of
  copper and application of uterine wall pressure to provide contraception. The delivery of
  lower dose copper or other substances described below may be generally referred to as
  "selective," "targeted," "focal," "localized" or the like. These terms generally mean that a
  substance is purposely delivered to one or more areas within the uterus in a greater
  concentration than it is delivered to other parts of the uterus. In summary, the IUDs
  described herein may provide contraception by the application of pressure, by targeted
  delivery of copper or other substance, or by both. Therefore, although a number of IUD
                                                -27-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  embodiments are described herein as having a particular mechanism of contraceptive
  action, in alternative embodiments they may be modified to have additional or other
  mechanisms also described herein.
           [0080]      Referring now to Figure 5, in another embodiment, a contraceptive
  device (or "IUD") 2200 similar to the one shown in Figure 3 may include an elongate
  shape memory member 2202 having two tissue contact surfaces (or "end points") 2208a,
  2208b. Elongate member 2202 may have a two-dimensional (i.e., predominantly flat)
  configuration, as shown, or alternatively may have a more three dimensional (i.e., slightly
  bent out of plane) configuration, as discussed above. Elongate member 2202 may include a
  middle portion 2204, a spring portion 2206, and bends 2210 between the middle portion
  2204 and the tissue contact surfaces 2208a, 2208b. Spring portion 2206 is generally
  located at an approximate midpoint of the length of elongate member 2202-i.e., at the
  bottom of IUD 2200. Middle portion 2204 is capable of expanding to contact the uterine
  wall and limit inferior migration and expulsion, as described previously.
           [0081]      In this embodiment, four focal substance delivery members in the form
  of copper sleeves 2212 are disposed over elongate member 2202 close to tissue contact
  surfaces 2208a, 2208b. Copper sleeves 2212 may deliver a small amount of copper to the
  uterine wall near one of the ideal locations for contraceptive effect-i.e., near and just
  below the fallopian tubes. By providing focal delivery of copper, contraceptive device
  2200 may provide the beneficial contraceptive effect of copper without the side effects
  often seen with currently available copper IUDs-i.e., excessive and/or non-menstrual
  bleeding. Such focal delivery may also be described as "concentrated," "selective,"
  "localized," "targeted" or the like, as mentioned above. Copper sleeves 2212 generally
  cover only a minority of elongate member 2202, and focal delivery of copper thus achieves
  the desired contraceptive effect while delivering a lower overall dose of copper to the
  uterus, compared with currently available IUDs. For example, copper sleeves 2212 of
  contraceptive device 2200 may have an exposed surface area of no more than about 200
  square millimeters, and more ideally no more than about 150 square millimeters, and even
  more ideally no more than about 125 square millimeters. In the embodiment shown in
  Figure 5, for example, the copper sleeves 2212 have a surface area of about 125 square
  millimeters. By comparison, currently available IUDs typically have copper measurements
  of about 380 square millimeters-i.e., over three times as much as the surface area of
                                               -28-

WO 2014/028499                                                            PCT/US2013/054743
  copper sleeves 2212. By delivering copper locally, near an ideal location within the uterus,
  contraceptive device 2200 may accomplish the objective of copper without as many
  bleeding side effects.
            [0082]    In an alternative embodiment,      copper may also be attached to
  contraceptive device 2200 at or near spring portion 2206. Such copper may be attached,
  for example, in the form of one or more sleeves or one or more wires wrapped around
  elongate member 2202. Copper located in this area on contraceptive device 2200 may be
  advantageous, because when contraceptive device 2200 is implanted, that portion of the
  copper will be located near to the cervical os (the opening of the cervix into the uterus).
  Copper disposed in this area will help stop sperm from proceeding farther into the uterus.
  In another alternative embodiment (not shown), copper may be included at or near spring
  portion 2206 and not near end points 2208a, 2208b. In alternative embodiments, sleeves
  2212 may be replaced by any other suitable substance delivery device(s), such as but not
  limited to copper wire(s), drug delivery depot(s), drug coatings, drug eluting carriers, or
  the like.
            [0083]    In yet other alternative embodiments (also not shown), copper sleeves
  2212 may be used along with one or more hormone delivery devices, which may contain
  or be coated or impregnated with Levonorgestrel or any other suitable hormone, which
  may be released over time into the uterus. When a combination of copper and hormone is
  used, it may be possible to lower the doses of both the copper and the hormone to very
  low levels while still providing the desired contraceptive effect. In various embodiments,
  any suitable hormone delivery device (or devices) may be attached to elongate member
  2202, as desired.
            [0084]    Referring now to Figures 6A and 6B, another alternative embodiment
  of a focal substance delivery contraceptive device (or "IUD") 2300 is shown, in front and
  perspective views, respectively. In this embodiment, IUD 2300 may again include an
  elongate shape memory member 2302 having two tissue contact surfaces (or "end points")
  2308a, 2308b. Elongate member 2302 may have a two-dimensional (i.e., predominantly
  flat) configuration, as shown, or alternatively may have a more three dimensional (i.e.,
  slightly bent out of plane) configuration. Elongate member 2302 may include a middle
  portion 2304, a spring portion 2306, and bends 2310 between middle portion 2304 and
  tissue contact surfaces 2308a, 2308b. Again, spring portion 2306 is generally located at an
                                               -29-

WO 2014/028499                                                               PCT/US2013/054743
  approximate midpoint of the length of elongate member 2302-i.e., at the bottom of IUD
  2300. Attached to spring portion 2306 is a retrieval string 2305, which may be a suture
  material or the like for retrieving the device 2300 from the uterus.
           [0085]      This embodiment includes copper sleeves 2312 near each of tissue
  contact surfaces 2308a, 2308b and additional copper sleeves 2314 near spring portion
  2306. Thus, the IUD 2300 may provide focal delivery of copper to areas of the uterus at
  or near openings of the fallopian tubes as well as at or near the cervical os. In one
  embodiment, the total surface area of copper sleeves 2312, 2314 may be no more than
  about 200 square millimeters and even more ideally no more than about 150 square
  millimeters. This embodiment includes four substance delivery sleeves 2312 near tissue
  contact surfaces 2308a, 2308b and two sleeves 2314 near spring portion 2306. In
  alternative embodiments, any other suitable number of sleeves may be included, such as
  between 1 and 20 sleeves. In other alternative embodiments, sleeves 2312, 2314 may be
  replaced with some other form of substance delivery device or mechanism, such as but not
  limited to wires, coatings, apertures in elongate member 2302 that leak a substance,
  permeable materials, beads coated or impregnated with a substance, or the like.
  Additionally, in various embodiments, sleeves 2312, 2314 may be either loosely or tightly
  affixed to elongate member 2302, so that they may be free to move in some embodiments
  and may be fixedly attached in others.
           [0086]      With reference now to Figures 7A and 7B, as described previously, the
  various embodiments of the IUD described herein are configured to resist and/or limit
  inferior migration and expulsion of the IUD from a uterus. Some or all of the embodiments
  may also have a tendency, due to their configuration and shape memory material, to
  migrate superiorly within a uterus (i.e., toward the top or "fundus" of the uterus). For
  example, as shown in Figure 7A, the IUD 2300 may be delivered into a uterus U in a
  relatively inferior location (for example, just beyond the cervical os 0). In this location, the
  device 2300 and its substance delivery members may be located relatively far from the
  openings of the fallopian tubes F. As shown in Figure 7B, however, the device 2300 may
  tend to expand and move superiorly up the uterus U to a position closer to the fallopian
  tube F openings. This second, migrated position may be more effective for contraception.
  However, in either location, the copper sleeves 2312, 2314 are located near the openings
  of the fallopian tubes F and the cervical os 0, thus providing focal substance delivery in
                                                -30-

WO 2014/028499                                                               PCT/US2013/054743
  those areas. Thus, the embodiments described herein may facilitate delivery of an IUD,
  because it is possible to simply place the device just within the uterus and allow it to
  migrate to a more desirable location within the uterus. This will likely be easier than trying
  to position a device in an ideal location during initial delivery, which may require
  visualization, increased manipulation and potentially discomfort to the patient.
           [0087]      With reference now to Figures 8A and 8B, in some embodiments, IUD
  2300 may be delivered to (or may migrate to) a first, relatively superior location in the
  uterus, as shown in Figure 8A. At this location IUD 2300 may assume is fully expanded
  (or nearly fully expanded) configuration. At some later point, IUD 2300 may migrate
  slightly inferiorly, as shown in Figure 8B, thus causing copper sleeves 2312 (or other
  substance delivery devices) to move together to form a continuous line approximately
  horizontally across the uterus U. This approximately horizontal line of copper sleeves 2312
  may act as an approximately horizontal, linear blockade to help block sperm from traveling
  through the uterus U toward the fallopian tubes F. At the same time, the other copper
  sleeves 2314 are still located at or near the cervical os 0 to further enhance contraception.
           [0088]       Referring now to Figures 9A-9D, another alternative embodiment of a
  focal substance delivery contraceptive device (or "IUD") 2500 is shown, in front, bottom,
  side and perspective views, respectively. In this embodiment, IUD 2500 has all the features
  of the embodiment of Figures 6A and 6B, but also includes additional copper sleeves.
  Thus, IUD 2500 includes elongate shape memory member 2502 having two tissue contact
  surfaces (or "end points") 2508a, 2508b. Elongate member 2502 includes a middle portion
  2504, a spring portion 2506, and bends between middle portion 2504 and tissue contact
  surfaces 2508a, 2508b. Again, spring portion 2506 is generally located at an approximate
  midpoint of the length of elongate member 2502-i.e., at the bottom of IUD 2500.
  Attached to spring portion 2506 is a retrieval string 2505, which may be a suture material
  or the like for retrieving the device 2500 from the uterus.
           [0089]       In the embodiment shown, IUD 2500 includes copper sleeves 2512 near
  each of the tissue contact surfaces 2508a, 2508b and additional copper sleeves 2514 near
  spring portion 2506, as in Figures 6A and 6B. In this embodiment, however, there are four
  additional copper sleeves 2514 near spring portion 2506, rather than two. Additionally,
  there are two added copper sleeves 2513, positioned on the loop formed at the opposite
  ends of elongate member 2502. Thus, the IUD 2500 may provide focal delivery of copper
                                                -31-

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
  to areas of the uterus at or near openings of the fallopian tubes as well as at or near the
  cervical os via a total of ten copper sleeves 2512, 2513, 2514. In one embodiment, the
  total exposed surface area of the copper sleeves 2512, 2513, 2514 may be no more than
  about 200 square millimeters and even more ideally no more than about 150 square
  millimeters.
           [0090]     With reference now to Figure 10, another alternative embodiment of a
  focal substance delivery contraceptive device (or "IUD") 2600 similar to the one shown in
  Figures 6A and 6B, and also including some of the extra copper sleeves of Figures 9A-9D
  is illustrated.  This embodiment may include an elongate shape memory member 2602
  having two tissue contact surfaces (or "end points") 2608a, 2608b. Elongate member
  2602 may have a two-dimensional (i.e., predominantly flat) configuration, as shown, or
  may have a more three dimensional (i.e., slightly bent out of plane) configuration.
  Elongate member 2602 may include a middle portion 2604, a loop portion 2606 disposed
  at the vertex (or bottom ) of elongate member 2602, and bends 2610 between middle
  portion 2604 and tissue contact surfaces 2608a, 2608b. Attached to loop portion 2606 is
  a retrieval string 2605, which may be a suture material or the like for retrieving the device
  2600 from the uterus. The device 2600 includes copper sleeves 2612 near each of the
  tissue contact surfaces 2608a, 2608b and additional copper sleeves 2614 near loop portion
  2606, as described with respect to the device 2300 depicted in Figures 6A and 6B.
           [0091]      In this embodiment, the bottom loop portion does not form any turns of
  a spring structure. Instead, to generate the resilience in the arms of the device as in the
  other embodiments described herein, this embodiment includes twists 2616 along the
  middle portion 2604 of the arms as they extend from the tissue contact surfaces toward the
  loop portion 2606. Twists may be formed when the two arms of the elongate member
  2602 cross each other more than once in a longitudinally extending helix containing
  multiple turns that run in series from closer to the loop portion 2606 outward along the
  arms until the arms diverge again from the twisted portion to form the opposing ends of
  the elongate member. Figure 10 shows three twists 2616, where each twist of Figure 10
  corresponds to an additional 180 degree rotation of wire orientation around the other.
  However, other numbers of twists (e.g., 1-5, 6-10, greater than 10) are also possible. In
  this embodiment, the twists 2616 act as the "spring portion" to confer laterally directed
  pressure to tissue contact surfaces 2608a, 2608b.
                                               -32-

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
           [0092]     It may be desirable to be able to easily modify the properties of the
  elongate member 2602. For example, the anatomical dimensions or characteristics of the
  uterus or medical conditions of a patient may call for adjustments to the outward force
  produced by the device 2600. In such applications, the location of the twists along the
  middle portion 2604, the number of the twists 2616, and the tightness of the twists 2616
  may be used to provide variability in the properties of the device 2600.      For example,
  increasing the number of twists 2616 may increase the stiffness of the elongate member
  2602; and decreasing the number of twists 2616 may decrease the stiffness of the elongate
  member 2602.       For another example, increasing the tightness of the twists 2616 may
  increase the stiffness of the elongate member 2602. Decreasing the tightness of the twists
  2616 may decrease the stiffness of the elongate member 2602. Moving the twists 2616 up
  along the middle portion 2604 may increase the stiffness of the elongate member 2602; and
  moving the twists down along the middle portion 2604 may decrease the stiffness of the
  elongate member 2602. With the device of Figure 10, a variety of differently configured
  devices can be made available to physicians to apply in the appropriate circumstances. The
  variability provided by the twists also allows much easier and more continuous
  customization of properties by merely modifying the nature of the twists, rather than the
  thickness or material of the wire itself to produce similar variations in properties. Wires
  come in standard sizes and materials, and if some intermediate is desired, the expense can
  make producing such a modified device impractical. Controlling properties of the device
  with the properties of the twists 2616 resolves this issue.
           [0093]     Figure 11 illustrates force vs. displacement curves for exemplary
  contraceptive devices such as shown in the above Figures that have high rates of stable
  proper placement in the uterus. Lines 2714 and 2716 on Figure 11 show measured force
  at various displacements between 0.0 and 0.3 inches of displacement for two different
  devices manufactured with the same wire diameter and device configuration which has
  been found to have desirable stability characteristics. The measure of displacement here is
  the reduction in the distance between the ends of the two arms. To make the measurement
  illustrated in Figure 11, a device may have the end of one arm placed against a solid
  unmoving support, and the other arm may be pushed (or pulled) toward the supported arm
  with a force gauge.      The applied force as a function of movement from the default
  unconstrained configuration is recorded. The solid line 2712 is a mean of the force as a
                                               -33-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  ftinction of displacement for measurements over many devices of the same configuration as
  lines 2714 and 2716.        The waviness of the lines is generally due to noise in the
  measurement.
           [0094]      The general steepness of the slope of the force-displacement curve is a
  measure of the stiffness of the "spring" that pushes the ends of the two arms outward
  against a compressing force such as the uterine wall. Through testing a variety of designs,
  the applicant's clinical experience has shown that devices with a stiffness requiring
  relatively large forces for relatively small displacements, wherein the force-displacement
  curve for the device enters region 2720 on the upper left of the graph of Figure 11, tend to
  become embedded in the uterine wall after implantation with an excessive frequency. This
  is not desirable as it interferes with later device extraction. In addition, devices with
  relatively large displacement at relatively low compression forces, wherein the force
  displacement curve for the device enters region 2730 on the lower right of the graph of
  Figure 11, tend to migrate downward after implantation with an excessive frequency. This
  is not desirable as the device is no longer properly positioned after such migration and may
  be expelled completely.
           [0095]      There is of course no bright line between devices that do or don't
  become embedded, or devices that do or don't migrate downward after implantation.
  However, it has been concluded from clinical and laboratory device testing that for devices
  having high likelihood       for stable   and/or slightly    upwardly mobile     implantation
  characteristics and with low likelihood of becoming embedded in the uterine wall. the
  force-displacement     curve   of an intrauterine     contraceptive   device with opposed
  compressible tissue contact surfaces should pass through at least one of regions 2706 and
  2708 of Figure 11, preferably both regions 2706 and 2708 of Figure 11 or both regions
  2706 and 2710 of Figure 11, and more preferably all three regions 2706, 2708 and 2710 of
  Figure 11.
           [0096]      Region 2706 is defined by the area of force between 0.02 and 0.035
  pounds and displacement between 0.2 and 0.3 inches. To pass through this region, the
  force-displacement curve of a device should be such that at least one compressive load of
  0.02 to 0.035 pounds-force partially collapses the device at least one displacement amount
  between 0.2 and 0.3 inches from the default configuration.
                                               -34-

WO 2014/028499                                                               PCT/US2013/054743
           [0097]       Region 2708 is defined by the area of force between 0.015 to 0.025
  pounds and displacement between 0.1 and 0.2 inches from the default configuration. To
  pass through this region, the force-displacement curve of a device should be such that at
  least one compressive load of 0.015 to 0.025 pounds-force partially collapses the device at
  least one displacement amount between 0.1 and 0.2 inches from the default configuration.
           [0098]       Region 2710 is defined by the area of force between 0.005 to 0.015
  pounds and displacement between 0.05 and 0.1 inches from the default configuration. To
  pass through this region, the force-displacement curve of a device should be such that at
  least one compressive load of 0.005 to 0.015 pounds-force partially collapses the device at
  least one displacement amount between 0.05 and 0.1 inches from the default configuration.
           [0099]       As described above, devices with a variety of stiffness characteristics
  can be created by adjusting wire thickness, wire shape, number of twists in the middle
  portion, and possibly other parameters of device configuration.         These features can be
  adjusted to produce intrauterine contraceptive devices conforming to these parameters.
  The spring stiffness characteristics defined by Figure 11 may advantageously be utilized in
  a device having a width between tissue contact surfaces of between 3.0 and 3.4 cm in the
  default unconstrained configuration,       and that may include sleeves of contraceptive
  substances as described above.
           [0100]       When first installed, the intrauterine device is collapsed, and upon
  release will initially expand to the width of the uterine cavity at the point of release. which
  may be somewhat less than 30 mm. If the device is 30 to 34 mm wide in its unconstrained
  default configuration, the compressive displacement (corresponding to the x-axis of Figure
  11) may cause the device to migrate upwards to the wider portion of the uterine cavity
  proximate to the fallopian tubes. The device may expand further with this migration until
  seated at the proper location for effective contraceptive effect. Depending on the anatomy
  of the subject with respect to the actual size of the uterine cavity (average intra-ostial
  distance   of about 30 mm for parous           women as noted above), the uterine wall
  characteristics, and the like, the final compression of the device after it is properly
  positioned may be from zero to a few millimeters.       Clinical experience indicates that the
  above parameters define a device with desirable implantation properties when implanted in
  the uterus.
                                                -35-

WO 2014/028499                                                               PCT/US2013/054743
           [0101]      The spring formed by the device may be linear or non-linear. A linear
  spring has a substantially straight force-displacement curve with substantially constant
  slope. The force-displacement curve for a non-linear spring has an overall curve, with a
  slope that varies with displacement. Devices having a non-linear force-displacement curve
  wherein the spring constant decreases with increasing displacement can be beneficial to
  limit the larger forces present when the device is initially released, and can be beneficial to
  increase the energy put into the spring with small displacements from an expanded
  configuration if the device begins to migrate downward after it is inserted and seated
  properly. For example, with a device characterized by the force-displacement curves 2714
  or 2716 of Figure 11, the difference between the compressive force at 0.05 inches
  compressive displacement and 0.1 inches compressive displacement is greater than the
  difference between the compressive force at 0.15 inches compressive displacement and 0.2
  inches compressive displacement.         The slope of the curve thus trends lower as the
  displacement increases.
           [0102]      Figure   12  illustrates  another   enhancement     to  the   intrauterine
  contraceptive devices described herein. As noted above, intrauterine contraceptive devices
  typically include onr or more retrieval strings 2616. These retrieval strings have one or
  more free ends that may extend through the cervix and into the vagina so the device can be
  easily retrieved with forceps when necessary or desired. Conventionally, these strings are
  10-12 cm long from the bottom of the device, and are cut at the end of an implantation
  procedure so 2-3 cm of the string extend into the vagina. In embodiments in accordance
  with Figure 12, the string and device lengths are controlled so that this cutting procedure
  is not necessary in almost all implantation procedures.
           [0103]      As shown in Figure 12, an intrauterine contraceptive device 2600 may
  include two arms and a middle portion forming an overall T shape.            The device has a
  height H defined by the perpendicular distance between the bottom of the middle portion
  of the device at the base of the T and a line    joining the two outermost ends of the two
  arms across the top of the T. The device also has a width W defined by the linear distance
  between the two outermost ends of the two arms across the top of the T.
           [0104]      One or more retrieval strings 2616 are attached to the contraceptive
  device. This may be multiple strings or a single string attached at one end or in a central
  region. This string or strings will have one or more free ends, and the length of the one or
                                                -36-

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  more retrieval strings and the location at which the one or more retrieval strings are
  attached to the device are such that when the one or more free ends are fully extended
  perpendicular to the line joining the two outermost ends of the arms across the top of the
  T, the perpendicular distance between the farthest free end and the line joining the two
  outermost ends of the arms across the top of the T, which is H plus L in Figure 12, is
  between about 10 cm and about 11 cm, or between exactly 10 cm and exactly 11 cm. If
  the device height H is 2.8 to 3.2 cm, for example, the string extension L from the bottom
  of the middle portion of the device 2600 to the farthest free end of the string 2616 may be
  about 7.5 cm or exactly 7.5 cm. The term "about" in this context is not intended to imply
  a specific numerical range, but is intended to include those lengths for the device, the
  string, and the combination thereof, that provide a significant reduction in the need to cut
  the free end or ends of the string(s) at the end of an implantation procedure.
            [0105]     It has been found that for a properly positioned device, this length
  produces an extension of the string ends into the vagina by an amount that requires no
  cutting in the vast majority of cases. This results in one less procedural step, no need for
  the use of sterile scissors in the procedure, one less possible source for infection, and is
  simpler from a training perspective, appealing to a broader user base. Conventionally, no
  thought has been given to these factors, and no attempts have been made to optimize the
  length of the string(s) and/or the device length to reduce or remove the need to trim the
  string(s).    Although this controlled string/device length is especially useful for the
  compressible     devices described herein, it is also applicable to other intrauterine
  contraceptive devices that are not compressible.
            [0106]     Referring now to Figure 13, as mentioned above, one drawback with
  current IUDs is that delivery of the IUD through the cervix into the uterus can be
  uncomfortable or even painful. Additionally, currently available IUDs typically require a
  physician or assistant to load the IUD into the delivery device in the clinic, because
  preloading the IUD will typical deform the material it is made of and thus adversely affect
  its ability to stay in the uterus. In one embodiment, an IUD delivery device 2400 may be
  configured to address at least some of these drawbacks. Delivery device 2400 may include
  a tubular shaft 2402 (or "sheath"), a tapered distal tip 2404, a pusher member 2410
  disposed at least partially within shaft 2402, and a handle 2406. A retrieval string 2405,
  which is part of the IUD, may extend out the proximal end of the delivery device 2400.
                                                -37-

WO 2014/028499                                                                 PCT/US2013/054743
           [0107]      Delivery device 2400 and its combination with the IUD embodiments
  described above may have a number of advantages over currently available devices. First,
  the shape memory IUDs described herein may typically be preloaded into shaft 2402
  without causing permanent deformation of the IUDs. This enhances ease of use, since
  currently available devices typically must be loaded by the physician. Second, the IUDs
  described herein may be preloaded by advancing the IUD into a proximal end of delivery
  device 2400, rather than by pulling the IUD into the distal end of a delivery device, as
  currently available devices work. Since delivery device 2400 is preloaded proximally, it
  may include tapered distal tip 2404, which will likely be more comfortable when advanced
  through the cervix. In contrast, when the physician has to load the IUD by pulling it into
  the distal end of a delivery device in the clinic, such a tapered distal tip 2404 is not feasible.
           [0108]      Third, the outer diameter of the shaft 2402 may be made smaller than
  currently available devices, because the shape memory IUDs described above are generally
  collapsible to fit in a smaller inner diameter. In some embodiments, for example, an IUD
  such as those described above may be collapsible to a diameter that permits shaft 2402 to
  have an outer diameter of between about 2.80 mm and about 3.40 mm, and more
  preferably between about 2.95 mm and about 3.20 mm. Fourth, although not visible in
  Figure 13, an inner wall of the shaft 2402 may have slots for guiding/orienting an IUD
  within the delivery device 2400. Such slots may help with delivery of the IUD, because the
  physician will know, based on the position of the delivery device 2400 relative to the
  patient, what the orientation of the IUD is. Again, this is not a feature of currently
  available IUD delivery devices, and such guiding/orienting with slots would not generally
  be possible when the physician must load the IUD into the delivery device in the clinic. In
  some embodiments, the pusher member 2410 may also have one or more guiding/orienting
  features, such as protrusions to fit within the slots of the inner wall of the shaft 2402. In
  some embodiments, one or more markings may also be included on the shaft 2402, pusher
  member 2410 and/or handle 2406 for helping guide/orient an IUD for facilitating delivery.
           [0109]      Various embodiments of a contraceptive intrauterine device and
  methods for using it have been disclosed above. These various embodiments may be used
  alone or in combination, and various changes to individual features of the embodiments
  may be altered, without departing from the scope of the invention. For example, the order
  of various method steps may in some instances be changed, and/or one or more optional
                                                 -38-

WO 2014/028499                                                          PCT/US2013/054743
  features may be added to or eliminated from a described device. Therefore, the description
  of the embodiments provided above should not be interpreted as unduly limiting the scope
  of the invention as it is set forth in the claims.
                                                  -39-

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
  WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
           1.     A method for promoting contraception by placing a contraceptive device
  within a uterus without blocking fallopian tubes, the method comprising:
                  advancing a distal end of a delivery device through a cervix;
                  advancing the contraceptive device comprising an elongate shape memory
          member out of the distal end of the delivery device and into the uterus, thus
          causing the contraceptive device to expand from a first, compressed shape within
          the delivery device to a second, expanded shape within the uterus, wherein two
          tissue contact surfaces at opposite ends of the shape memory member contact the
          inner wall of the uterus when the contraceptive device is in the second shape, and
          wherein each of the tissue contact members, when the contraceptive device is
          delivered, is positioned near, but not within, an opening of one of the two fallopian
          tubes branching from the uterus; and
                  limiting inferior migration of the contraceptive device within the uterus by
          allowing the contraceptive device to assume a third shape, when subjected to
          pressure that tends to cause a downward migration of the device within the uterus,
          in which the tissue contact members are closer together than in the second shape
          and in which an expandable middle portion of the device is expanded to contact the
          inner wall of the uterus and thus limit the downward migration of the device.
           2.     A method as in claim 1, wherein each of the tissue contact surfaces, when
  the device is delivered, is positioned within approximately 2 cm of an opening of one of
  the fallopian tubes.
           3.     A method as in claim 1, further comprising delivering a substance within
  the uterus via the contraceptive device, wherein the substance is selected from the group
  consisting of hormones, spermicides, copper and therapeutic agents.
           4.     A method as in claim 3, wherein delivering the substance comprises
  delivering copper to at least one selected area of the uterus in a more concentrated dose
  than to at least one other area of the uterus via at least one substance delivery member
  disposed on the contraceptive device in at least one location configured to provide the
  substance at the at least one selected area.
           5.     A method as in claim 4, wherein a total exposed surface area of all of the at
  least one substance delivery member is no more than about 200 square millimeters.

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
          6.      A method as in claim 4, wherein the at least one substance delivery member
  comprises at least two substance delivery members, and wherein each of the at least two
  substance delivery members is positioned on the contraceptive device so that it will be
  located at or near an ostium of one of the fallopian tubes when the contraceptive device is
  delivered to the uterus.
          7.      A method as in claim 6, wherein the at least one substance delivery member
  further comprises at least one additional substance delivery member positioned on the
  contraceptive device so that it will be located at or near an internal cervical os when the
  contraceptive device is delivered to the uterus.
          8.      A method as in claim 1, further comprising removing the contraceptive
  device through the cervix by pulling on a thread connected to the contraceptive device.
          9.      A method as in claim 1, wherein the distal end of the delivery device is
  tapered to a diameter smaller than a diameter of a portion of the delivery device containing
  the contraceptive device, and wherein the contraceptive device is completely contained
  within the delivery device prior to providing it to a physician user and during advancement
  of the delivery device through the cervix.
           10.    A method as in claim 1, wherein advancing the contraceptive device out of
  the delivery device comprises delivering the contraceptive device to a first, inferior
  location in the uterus, and wherein the method further comprises                allowing the
  contraceptive device to migrate superiorly to a second location in the uterus after delivery.
           11.    A method as in claim 1, further comprising applying sufficient pressure
  against the wall of the uterus with the tissue contact surfaces to promote contraception.
           12.    A method for promoting contraception, the method comprising:
                  delivering a substance to one or more targeted areas in a uterus in a more
          concentrated dose than to at least one other area in the uterus via a contraceptive
          device having at least one substance delivery member located thereon, wherein a
          total exposed substance delivery surface area of all of the at least one substance
          delivery member is no more than about 200 square millimeters.
           13.    A method as in claim 12, further comprising, before delivering the
  substance:
                  advancing a distal end of a delivery device through a cervix; and
                  advancing the contraceptive device comprising an elongate shape memory
          member out of the distal end of the delivery device and into the uterus, thus

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
          causing the contraceptive device to expand from a first, compressed shape within
          the delivery device to a second, expanded shape within the uterus, wherein two
          tissue contact surfaces at opposite ends of the shape memory member contact the
          inner wall of the uterus when the contraceptive device is in the second shape, and
          wherein each of the tissue contact members, when the contraceptive device is
          delivered, is positioned near, but not within, an opening of one of the two fallopian
          tubes branching from the uterus.
           14.    A method as in claim 13, wherein the substance comprises copper, and
  wherein the at least one substance delivery member comprises at least a first substance
  delivery member positioned on the elongate member at or near a first one of the tissue
  contact surfaces, a second substance delivery member positioned on the elongate member
  at or near a second one of the tissue contact surfaces, and a third substance delivery
  member positioned on the elongate member at or near a middle portion configured to be
  located at or near a cervical os when the contraceptive device is located within the uterus.
           15.    A method as in claim 13, further comprising limiting inferior migration of
  the contraceptive device within the uterus by allowing the contraceptive device to assume
  a third shape when subjected to pressure that tends to cause a downward migration of the
  device within the uterus, in which the tissue contact members are closer together than in
  the second shape and in which an expandable middle portion of the device is expanded to
  contact the inner wall of the uterus and thus limit the downward migration of the device.
           16.    A method as in claim 15, further comprising applying sufficient pressure
  against the wall of the uterus with the tissue contact surfaces to promote contraception.
           17.    A method as in claim 12, wherein the substance comprises copper, and
  wherein the at least one substance delivery member comprises at least three substance
  delivery members, two of which are positioned on the contraceptive device so that they
  will be located at or near an ostium of a fallopian tube and one of which is positioned on
  the contraceptive device so that it will be located at or near a cervical os when the
  contraceptive device is delivered to the uterus.
           18.    A method as in claim 12, wherein the substance is selected from the group
  consisting of copper and other spermicidal agents.
           19.    A method as in claim 18, wherein the method further comprises delivering
  an additional substance to the uterus, wherein the additional substance is selected from the
  group consisting of Levonorgestrel, other hormones and therapeutic agents.

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
          20.     A method as in claim 12, wherein the total exposed surface area of the
  substance delivery members is no more than about 200 square millimeters.
          21.     A method for promoting contraception by focally delivering a substance
  within a uterus, the method comprising:
                  advancing a contraceptive device out of a distal end of a delivery device
          and into the uterus, thus causing the contraceptive device to expand from a first,
          compressed shape within the delivery device to a second, expanded shape within
          the uterus, wherein two tissue contact         surfaces at opposite      ends of the
          contraceptive device contact an inner wall of the uterus when the contraceptive
          device is in the second shape, and wherein each of the tissue contact surfaces,
          when the contraceptive device is delivered, is positioned near, but not within, one
          of two fallopian tube openings;
                  delivering the substance to at least one targeted area of the uterus over
          time, via the contraceptive device, wherein the at least one targeted area includes
          areas at or near both of the fallopian tube openings, and wherein the contraceptive
          device includes at least one substance delivery member located at or near each of
          the tissue contact surfaces to deliver the substance at or near the fallopian tube
          openings; and
                  allowing the contraceptive device to partially collapse within the uterus
          such that the at least one substance delivery member forms a continuous line across
          the uterus from one side to an opposite side of the inner wall of the uterus.
          22.     A method as in claim 21, wherein the contraceptive device comprises at
  least three substance delivery members, and wherein advancing the contraceptive device
  causes at least one of the substance delivery members to be positioned at or near each of
  the openings of the fallopian tubes and one of the substance delivery members to be
  positioned at or near a cervical os.
          23.     A method as in claim 21, wherein delivering the substance comprises
  delivering copper, and wherein a total exposed surface area of the substance delivery
  members is no more than about 200 square millimeters.
          24.     A method as in claim 21, wherein the contraceptive device comprises an
  elongate shape memory member, wherein the substance delivery members comprise
  sleeves   disposed   around the shape memory member,            and wherein allowing the

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
  contraceptive device to partially collapse causes the substance delivery members to move
  together to form an approximately continuous cylinder.
          25.    A method for approximating contractility of a uterus, the method
  comprising:
                 advancing a contraceptive device comprising a shape memory member out
         of the distal end of a delivery device and into the uterus, thus causing the
         contraceptive device to expand from a first, compressed shape within the delivery
         device to a second, expanded shape within the uterus, wherein two tissue contact
         surfaces at opposite ends of the contraceptive device contact the inner wall of the
         uterus when the contraceptive device is in the second, expanded shape, and
         wherein each of the tissue contact surfaces, when the contraceptive device is
         delivered, is positioned near, but not within, an opening of a fallopian tube;
                 visualizing, using a visualization device, the contraceptive device in the
         second shape, in which a middle portion of the device is expanded; and
                 approximating contractility of the uterus by comparing an amount of
         expansion of the middle portion of the device with a known amount of expansion
         of the middle portion when the device is completely unconstrained.
          26.    A method as in claim 25, wherein visualizing the contraceptive device
  comprises visualizing using a radiographic visualization device positioned outside the
  uterus and wherein at least a portion of the middle portion of the contraceptive device is
  radiopaque.
          27.    A shape memory, intrauterine, contraceptive device, comprising:
                 two tissue contact surfaces at or near opposing ends of the device;
                 an expandable middle portion between the tissue contact surfaces; and
                 a spring portion at or near a midpoint of the elongate member;
                 wherein the contraceptive device is configured to move from a first, default
         configuration when unconstrained to a second, partially collapsed configuration
         when the two tissue contact surfaces are forced toward one another by an inner
         wall of a uterus, wherein the expandable middle portion is expanded in the second
         shape such that it contacts the inner wall of the uterus to help prevent migration of
         the contraceptive device out of the uterus.
          28.    A device as in claim 27, wherein the two tissue contact surfaces, the middle
  portion and the spring portion comprise one shape memory wire.

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
           29.     A device as in claim 27, wherein the spring portion, the middle portion, and
  two arms extending from the middle portion comprise a shape memory wire, and wherein
  the device further comprises two tissue contact members, each of which is coupled with
  one of two opposing ends of the shape memory wire to form the tissue contact surfaces.
           30.     A device as in claim 27, wherein the contraceptive device comprises a
  shape memory wire comprising a material selected from the group consisting of Nitinol,
  other shape memory metal alloys and shape memory polymers.
           31.     A device as in claim 30, wherein the shape memory wire has a diameter of
  between about 0.015 inch and about 0.017 inch.
           32.     A device as in claim 27, wherein the middle portion is expandable, in the
  second shape, to a width approximately equal to a distance between the two tissue contact
  surfaces.
           33.     A device as in claim 27, wherein the device is compressible into a third,
  fully collapsed configuration for positioning within a delivery sheath having an inner
  diameter of between about 2.70 mm and about 2.90 mm.
           34.     A device as in claim 33, further comprising the delivery sheath, wherein the
  delivery sheath includes a tapered distal end, and wherein the device is preloaded within
  the delivery sheath prior to providing the device to a physician user.
           35.     A device as in claim 27, further comprising a substance coupled with the
  device for delivery to the uterus, the substance selected from the group consisting of
  hormones, spermicides, copper, zinc and therapeutic agents.
           36.     A device as in claim 35, wherein the substance is coupled with the device
  via at least one substance delivery member attached to the device.
           37.     A device as in claim 36, wherein the substance comprises copper, and
  wherein a total exposed surface area of the at least one substance delivery member is no
  more than approximately 200 square millimeters.
           38.     A device as in claim 37, wherein the contraceptive device comprises a
  shape memory wire, and wherein the at least one substance delivery member comprises:
                   a first copper sleeve disposed over the shape memory wire at or near a first
           one of the tissue contact surfaces;
                   a second copper sleeve disposed over the shape memory wire at or near a
           second one of the tissue contact surfaces; and

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
                  a third copper sleeve disposed over the shape memory wire at or near the
          spring portion.
          39.     A device as in claim 38, wherein at least one of the copper sleeves
  comprises wound copper wire.
          40.     A contraceptive device for focally delivering a substance in a uterus, the
  contraceptive device comprising:
                  an elongate shape memory member having two opposing ends and a spring
          portion between the opposing ends; and
                  at least one substance delivery member disposed along a minority of a
          length of the shape memory member at a location to locally deliver the substance,
          when the contraceptive device is placed in the uterus, to at least one of an area
          near a fallopian tube or an area near a cervical os.
          41.     A device as in claim 40, wherein the at least one substance delivery member
  comprises two substance delivery sleeves, wherein each of the sleeves is disposed over the
  shape memory member at or near one of the opposing ends.
          42.     A device as in claim 40, wherein the at least one substance delivery member
  comprises a substance delivery sleeve disposed over the shape memory member at or near
  the spring portion.
          43.     A device as in claim 40, wherein the at least one substance delivery member
  comprises at least one substance delivery sleeve disposed over the shape memory member
  at or near each of the opposing ends and at least one substance delivery sleeve disposed
  over the shape memory member at or near the spring portion.
          44.     A device as in claim 40, wherein the substance is selected from the group
  consisting of copper and other spermicidal agents.
          45.     A device as in claim 40, wherein the substance comprises copper, and
  wherein the substance delivery members have a total surface area no more than about 200
  square millimeters.
          46.     A device as in claim 40, further comprising a hormone delivery member
  disposed at a different location along the shape memory member from a location of the
  substance delivery member.
          47.     An intrauterine device for promoting contraception without blocking the
  fallopian tubes, the contraceptive device comprising:

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
                  an elongate shape memory member having two opposing ends, a spring
          portion at approximately a midpoint between the two ends, a default configuration
          when released from constraint, and a collapsed configuration when constrained;
          and
                  at least one copper delivery member coupled with the shape memory
          member at or near each of the two ends for focally delivering a substance to a
          uterus in an area at or near openings of the fallopian tubes, wherein a total exposed
          surface area of the substance delivery members is no more than 200 square
          millimeters.
           48.    A device as in claim 47, wherein the shape memory member further
  comprises an expandable middle portion that expands when the two opposing ends are
  forced toward one another by an inner wall of the uterus, wherein the expanded middle
  portion may contact the wall of the uterus to help prevent migration of the device out of
  the uterus.
           49.    A device as in claim 48, wherein the substance delivery members, when
  pushed together by the inner wall of the uterus pushing together the opposing ends, form
  an approximately continuous line across the uterus.
           50.    A device as in claim 47, wherein the elongate member is made of a shape
  memory material selected from the group consisting of Nitinol, other shape memory metal
  alloys and shape memory polymers.
           51.    A device as in claim 47, wherein the two opposing ends comprise looped
  portions of the elongate member, and wherein the elongate member comprises Nitinol.
           52.    A device as in claim 47, wherein the spring portion comprises a spring
  having at least one coil formed in the elongate member.
           53.    A device as in claim 47, wherein the device in the collapsed configuration is
  sufficiently small to fit within a delivery sheath having an inner diameter of between about
  2.70 mm and about 2.90 mm.
           54.    A device as in claim 53, further comprising the delivery sheath, wherein the
  delivery sheath includes a tapered distal end, and wherein the device is preloaded within
  the delivery sheath prior to providing the device to a physician user.
           55.    A device as in claim 47, wherein the elongate member has a diameter of
  between about 0.015 inch and about 0.017 inch.

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
          56.     A device as in claim 47, wherein the at least one substance delivery member
  comprises multiple substance delivery sleeves disposed over the shape memory member.
          57.     A device as in claim 56, wherein the sleeves comprise at least one sleeve at
  or near one of the ends, one sleeve at or near an opposite end, and one sleeve at or near
  the spring portion.
          58.     A contraceptive      device that may     also be   used for approximating
  contractility of a uterus, the contraceptive device comprising:
                  an elongate shape memory member having two opposing ends, a spring
          portion at a midpoint of the elongate member, a default expanded configuration,
          and a collapsed configuration;
                  two tissue contact surfaces, each of which is disposed at one of the
          opposing ends of the elongate member; and
                  a middle portion of the elongate member that expands in direct proportion
          to compression pressures acting upon the two tissue contact surfaces such that a
          separation distance of the middle portion of the elongate member may be used to
          approximate contractility of the uterus.
          59.     A device as in claim 57, further comprising at least one radiopaque marker
  or material on the middle portion of the elongate member to facilitate visualization of the
  middle portion using a radiographic visualization device.
          60.     A contraceptive system, comprising:
                  a shape memory, intrauterine, contraceptive device, comprising:
                          two tissue contact surfaces at or near opposing ends of the device;
                  and
                          an expandable middle portion between the tissue contact surfaces;
                          wherein the contraceptive device is configured to move from a first,
                  default configuration when unconstrained to a second, partially collapsed
                  configuration when the two tissue contact surfaces are forced toward one
                  another by an inner wall of a uterus, wherein the expandable middle portion
                  is expanded in the second shape such that it contacts the inner wall of the
                  uterus to help prevent migration of the contraceptive device out of the
                  uterus; and
                  a delivery device for housing and delivering the contraceptive device into
          the uterus through a cervix, the delivery device comprising:

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
                           a shaft having a tapered distal tip; and
                           a pusher member disposed inside the shaft for at least one of
                   advancing the contraceptive device out of the distal tip or maintaining a
                   position of the contraceptive device within the shaft while the shaft is
                   retracted.
           61.     A system as in claim 60, wherein the contraceptive device is preloaded into
  the shaft of the delivery device before providing the system to a customer.
           62.     A system as in claim 61, wherein the contraceptive device is preloaded
  through a proximal end of the shaft of the delivery device.
           63.     A system as in claim 60, wherein the shaft of the delivery device has an
  inner diameter of no more than about 3.00 mm and an outer diameter of no more than
  about 3.40 mm.
           64.     A system as in claim 60, wherein the contraceptive device comprises a
  Nitinol wire.
           65.     A system as in claim 60, wherein the shaft of the delivery device comprises
  an inner surface having at least one slot for directing advancement of the contraceptive
  device out of the distal tip.
           66.     A system as in claim 60, wherein the contraceptive device further comprises
  at least one substance delivery member for delivering a substance within the uterus.
           67.     A system as in claim 66, wherein the substance comprises copper, wherein
  the at least one substance delivery member comprises at least one substance delivery
  member at or near each of the tissue contact surfaces, and wherein a total exposed surface
  area of the at least one substance delivery member is no more than about 200 square
  millimeters.
           68. A contraceptive device for focally delivery a substance in a uterus, the
  contraceptive device comprising:
                   an elongate shape memory member having two opposing ends located at
           each end of a pair of arms;
                   a portion between the opposing ends comprising a portion of the pair of
           arms that cross each other in a series of twists, wherein the arms exit the series of
           twists to form the opposing ends; and
                   at least one substance delivery member disposed along a portion of the
           elongate shape memory member at a location to locally deliver the substance, when

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
           the contraceptive device is placed in the uterus, to at least one of an area near a
           fallopian tube or an area near a cervical os, or both.
           69. The device of claim 68 wherein the length, placement or number of turns of the
  series of twists at least in part defines the device stiffness.
           70. The device of claim 68, wherein the length and upwardly curved shape of the
  arms are anatomically compatible with the shape of the uterine walls, and wherein a
  stiffness of the arms is sufficient to bias the device in a proximal, upward, of fundal
  oriented movement of the device position in response to typical uterine contractions
  occurring immediately upon insertion and throughout use of the device.
           71. The device of claim 68, wherein the at least one substance delivery member
  comprises two substance delivery sleeves, wherein each of the sleeves is disposed over the
  shape memory member at or near one of the opposing ends.
           72. The device of claim 68, wherein the at least one substance delivery member
  comprises a substance delivery sleeve disposed over the shape memory member at or near
  a bottom portion of the device.
           73. The device of claim 68, wherein the at least one substance delivery member
  comprises at least one substance delivery sleeve disposed over the shape memory member
  at or near each of the opposing ends and at least one substance delivery sleeve disposed
  over the shape memory member at or near a bottom portion of the device.
           74. The device of claim 68, wherein the substance is selected from the group
  consisting of copper and other spermicidal agents.
           75. The device of claim 68, wherein the substance comprises copper, and wherein
  the substance delivery members have a total surface area no more than about 200 square
  millimeters.
           76. The device of claim 68, further comprising a hormone delivery member
  disposed at a different location along the shape memory member from a location of the
  substance delivery member.
           77.     An intrauterine contraceptive device comprising:
                   two tissue contact surfaces at or near opposing ends of the device;
                   wherein the contraceptive device is configured to move from a first, default
           configuration when unconstrained to a second, partially collapsed configuration
           when the two tissue contact surfaces are forced toward one another by an inner
           wall of a uterus;

WO 2014/028499                                                           PCT/US2013/054743
                  wherein the contraceptive device is configured such that at least one
         compressive load of 0.02 to 0.035 pounds-force partially collapses the device at
         least one displacement amount between 0.2 and 0.3 inches from the default
         configuration.
          78. The device of claim 77, wherein at least one compressive load of 0.015 to
  0.025 pounds-force partially collapses the device at least one displacement amount
  between 0.1 and 0.2 inches from the default configuration.
          79. The device of claim 77, wherein at least one compressive load of 0.005 to
  0.015 pounds-force partially collapses the device at least one displacement amount
  between 0.05 and 0.1 inches from the default configuration.
          80. The device of claim 78, wherein at least one compressive load of 0.005 to
  0.015 pounds-force partially collapses the device at least one displacement amount
  between 0.05 and 0.1 inches from the default configuration.
          81. The device of claim 77, wherein the difference between the compressive force
  at 0.05 inches collapsing displacement and 0.1 inches collapsing displacement is greater
  than the difference between the compressive force at 0.15 inches collapsing displacement
  and 0.2 inches collapsing displacement.
          82. The device of claim 78, wherein the difference between the compressive force
  at 0.05 inches collapsing displacement and 0.1 inches collapsing displacement is greater
  than the difference between the compressive force at 0.15 inches collapsing displacement
  and 0.2 inches collapsing displacement.
          83. The device of claim 79, wherein the difference between the compressive force
  at 0.05 inches collapsing displacement and 0.1 inches collapsing displacement is greater
  than the difference between the compressive force at 0.15 inches collapsing displacement
  and 0.2 inches collapsing displacement.
          84. The device of claim 80, wherein the difference between the compressive force
  at 0.05 inches collapsing displacement and 0.1 inches collapsing displacement is greater
  than the difference between the compressive force at 0.15 inches collapsing displacement
  and 0.2 inches collapsing displacement.
          85. The device of any one of claims 77 to 84, wherein the linear distance between
  the two tissue contacting surfaces when the device in in the first default configuration is
  between 3.0 and 3.4 cm.
          86.     An intrauterine contraceptive device comprising:

WO 2014/028499                                                              PCT/US2013/054743
                   two tissue contact surfaces at or near opposing ends of the device;
                   wherein the contraceptive device is configured to move from a first, default
          configuration when unconstrained to a second, partially collapsed configuration
          when the two tissue contact surfaces are forced toward one another by an inner
          wall of a uterus;
                   wherein at least one compressive load of 0.015 to 0.025 pounds-force
          partially collapses the device at least one displacement amount between 0.1 and 0.2
          inches from the default configuration.
          87. The device of claim 86, wherein at least one compressive load of 0.005 to
  0.015 pounds-force partially collapses the device at least one amount between 0.05 and
  0.1 inches from the default configuration.
          88. The device of claim 86, wherein the difference between the compressive force
  at 0.05 inches collapsing displacement and 0.1 inches collapsing displacement is greater
  than the difference between the compressive force at 0.15 inches collapsing displacement
  and 0.2 inches collapsing displacement.
          89. The device of claim 87, wherein the difference between the compressive force
  at 0.05 inches collapsing displacement and 0.1 inches collapsing displacement is greater
  than the difference between the compressive force at 0.15 inches collapsing displacement
  and 0.2 inches collapsing displacement.
          90. The device of any one of claims 86 to 89, wherein the linear distance between
  the two tissue contacting surfaces when the device in in the first default configuration is
  between 3.0 and 3.4 cm.
          91. An intrauterine contraceptive device comprising;
                   two arms and a middle portion forming an overall T shape, the device
          having a height defined by the perpendicular distance between the bottom of the
          middle portion of the device at the base of the T and a line joining the two
          outermost ends of the two arms across the top of the T, and having a width defined
          by the linear distance between the two outermost ends of the two arms across the
          top of the T;
                   one or more retrieval strings attached to the contraceptive device with one
          or more free ends, wherein the length of the one or more retrieval strings and the
          location at which the one or more retrieval strings are attached to the device are
          such that when the one or more free ends are fully extended perpendicular to the

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
           line joining the two outermost ends of the arms across the top of the T, the
           perpendicular distance between the farthest free end and the line joining the two
           outermost ends of the arms across the top of the T is between about 10 cm and
           about 11 cm.
           92. The contraceptive device of claim 91, wherein the height of the device is 2.8 to
  3.2 cm and wherein the one or more retrieval strings are attached to the middle portion at
  or near the bottom of the middle portion.
           93. The contraceptive device of claim 92, wherein the length of the farthest string
  extension measured from the bottom of the middle portion to the farthest free end is about
  7.5 cm.
           94. The contraceptive device of claim 91, wherein the contraceptive device
  comprises two tissue contact surfaces at or near the outermost ends of the two arms, and
  is configured to move from a first, default configuration when unconstrained to a second,
  partially collapsed configuration when the two tissue contact surfaces are forced toward
  one another by an inner wall of a uterus.
           95. The contraceptive device of claim 94, wherein the width of the device when in
  the unconstrained default configuration is 1.8 to 5.4 cm.
           96. The contraceptive device of claim 95, wherein the width of the device when in
  the unconstrained default configuration is 3.0 to 3.4 cm.
           97. The contraceptive device of claim 96, wherein the height of the device is 2.8 to
  3.2 cm and wherein the one or more retrieval strings are attached to the middle portion at
  or near the bottom of the middle portion.
           98. The contraceptive device of claim 97, wherein the length of the farthest string
  extension measured from the bottom of the middle portion to the farthest free end is about
  7.5 cm.
           99.     An intrauterine contraceptive device comprising:
                   two arms and a middle portion forming an overall T shape, the device
           having a height defined by the perpendicular distance between the bottom of the
           middle portion of the device at the base of the T and a line joining the two
           outermost ends of the two arms across the top of the T, and having a width defined
           by the linear distance between the two outermost ends of the two arms across the
           top of the T;
                   two tissue contact surfaces at or near the outermost ends of the two arms;

WO 2014/028499                                                             PCT/US2013/054743
                   copper coupled to the device having a total exposed surface area of no
          more than about 200 square mm;
                   wherein the contraceptive device is configured to move from a first, default
          configuration when unconstrained to a second, partially collapsed configuration
          when the two tissue contact surfaces are forced toward one another by an inner
          wall of a uterus;
                   wherein the width of the device when the device is in the first default
          configuration is between 3.0 and 3.4 cm; and
                   wherein at least one compressive load of 0.02 to 0.035 pounds-force
          partially collapses the device at least one displacement amount between 0.2 and 0.3
          inches from the default configuration.
           100.    The device of claim 99, wherein at least one compressive load of 0.015 to
  0.025 pounds-force partially collapses the device at least one displacement amount
  between 0.1 and 0.2 inches from the default configuration.
           101.    The device of claim 99, wherein at least one compressive load of 0.005 to
  0.015 pounds-force partially collapses the device at least one amount between 0.05 and
  0.1 inches from the default configuration.
           102.    The device of claim 99, wherein the difference between the compressive
  force at 0.05 inches collapsing displacement and 0.1 inches collapsing displacement is
  greater than the difference between the compressive force at 0.15 inches collapsing
  displacement and 0.2 inches collapsing displacement.
           103.    The device of claim 99, comprising one or more retrieval strings attached
  to the contraceptive device with one or more free ends, wherein the length of the one or
  more retrieval strings and the location at which the one or more retrieval strings are
  attached to the device are such that when the one or more free ends are fully extended
  perpendicular to the line joining the two outermost ends of the arms across the top of the
  T, the perpendicular distance between the farthest free end and the line joining the two
  outermost ends of the arms across the top of the T is between about 10 cm and about 11
  cm.

        104.    A method for promoting contraception, the method comprising:
                delivering a substance to one or more targeted areas in a uterus in a more
concentrated dose than to at least one other area in the uterus via a contraceptive device
having at least one substance delivery member located thereon, wherein a total exposed
substance delivery surface area of all of the at least one substance delivery member is no
more than about 200 square millimeters.
        105.    A method as in claim 104, further comprising, before delivering the substance:
                advancing a distal end of a delivery device through a cervix; and
                advancing the contraceptive device comprising an elongate shape memory
member out of the distal end of the delivery device and into the uterus, thus causing the
contraceptive device to expand from a first, compressed shape within the delivery device to a
second, expanded shape within the uterus, wherein two tissue contact surfaces at opposite
ends of the shape memory member contact the inner wall of the uterus when the
contraceptive device is in the second shape, and wherein each of the tissue contact members,
when the contraceptive device is delivered, is positioned near, but not within, an opening of
one of the two fallopian tubes branching from the uterus.
        106.    A method as in claim 105, wherein the substance comprises copper, and
wherein the at least one substance delivery member comprises at least a first substance
delivery member positioned on the elongate member at or near a first one of the tissue contact
surfaces, a second substance delivery member positioned on the elongate member at or near a
second one of the tissue contact surfaces, and a third substance delivery member positioned on
 the elongate member at or near a middle portion configured to be located at or near a cervical
 os when the contraceptive device is located within the uterus.
        107.    A method as in claim 104, wherein the substance comprises copper, and
wherein the at least one substance delivery member comprises at least three substance
delivery members, two of which are positioned on the contraceptive device so that they will
be located at or near an ostium of a fallopian tube and one of which is positioned on the
contraceptive device so that it will be located at or near a cervical os when the contraceptive
device is delivered to the uterus.
        108.    A method as in claim 104, wherein the substance is selected from the group
consisting of copper and other spermicidal agents.
        109.    A method as in claim 108, wherein the method further comprises delivering an
additional substance to the uterus, wherein the additional substance is selected from the group
consisting of Levonorgestrel, other hormones and therapeutic agents.

       110.    A method as in claim 104, wherein the total exposed surface area of the
substance delivery members is no more than about 200 square millimeters.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
