ABSTRACT
A bracket (11) for mounting panels to a carrier, the bracket comprising a base (15) and two
flanges (18) extending away from the base, the base being located between the two flanges,
each flange (18) having an inwardly-facing surface and an outwardly-facing surface bounded
by two side edges and a distal end, and wherein each flange (18) comprises at least one
outwardly protruding tab (14) for engaging the carrier and thereby securing the bracket to the
carrier, and wherein each flange (18) further comprises a pair of slots (16) for receiving a
panel, each slot of said pair of slots extending from a different side edge of the flange at a
location further away from the base (15) than the outwardly protruding tab (14). A carrier and
bracket assembly and a carrier, bracket and panel assembly are also provided.
FIG 2a

                                                -1
                  BRACKET FOR MOUNTING A PANEL TO A CARRIER
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]     The present disclosure relates to brackets for mounting panels to carriers attached to
or suspended from walls or ceilings.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
[0003]     Wall and ceiling panels formed from various materials such as wood or metals such
as aluminium, for example, are known in the art. Such panels may be, for example, square or
rectangular in shape when installed and viewed from below (in the case of a ceiling panel) or
from the front of the panel (in the case of a wall panel), or may instead be of a linear form.
Linear panels have a length which is substantially greater than their width, the length generally
being at least three times and more usually at least five times the width of the panel.
[0004]     Carriers for mounting panels are known in the art. Where a ceiling is to be paneled,
the carriers are attached to or are suspended from the structural ceiling or upper part of a wall
adjacent to the structural ceiling. The ceiling panel is attached to the carrier, and is thereby
mounted on the ceiling. In the case of a wall, the carriers are attached to or are spaced from
the wall, and the wall panels are attached to the carriers.
[0005]     The panels may be attached directly to the carriers, or alternatively a bracket may be
attached to the carrier and the panel may be attached to the bracket. Brackets may
advantageously be used where it is desirable that flexibility be provided with regard to where
the panel is installed on the carrier.
[0006]     DE7440299 discloses a bracket for mounting ceiling panels. Figure 1 shows a prior
art assembly including a carrier, a ceiling panel and a bracket in accordance with the teaching
of DE7440299. A carrier 2 is provided with a bracket 1 having a base 5 and two flanges 8
which extend from the base 5. The bracket is placed over the carrier 2 at the desired position
and is secured to the carrier with snap locks 4. The base 5 of the bracket 1 and the
corresponding part of the carrier 2 are provided with holes 6, 7 which permit the bracket to be

                                                  -2
fixed to the carrier by aligning the holes 6 in the base of the bracket with the holes 7 in the
carrier and then screwing the bracket and the carrier together. The flanges 8 of the bracket
have cut-out portions for receiving the edges of a ceiling panel 3.
[0007]     However, there are various limitations imposed by the arrangement taught in
DE7440299. For example, depending on the method used to attach the carrier to the ceiling,
the bracket may not able to be fitted at a location where the carrier is attached to the ceiling,
thereby limiting the positions at which the panel may be fixed to the carrier. Additionally, the
brackets either need to be positioned on the carrier prior to attaching the carrier to the ceiling
or alternatively enough space needs to be provided around the carrier to permit the brackets to
be attached to the carrier once the carrier has been attached to the ceiling. Furthermore, the
brackets are not easily moveable once they have been screwed into position on the carrier.
SUMMARY
[0008]     This summary of the disclosure is not intended to identify key features or essential
features of the claimed subject matter, nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of
the claimed subject matter.
[0009]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
[0010]      According to one aspect of the invention there is provided a bracket for mounting
panels to a carrier, the bracket comprising a base and two flanges extending away from the
base, the base being located between the two flanges, each flange of the bracket having an
inwardly-facing surface and an outwardly-facing surface bounded by two side edges and a
distal end, and wherein each flange comprises at least one outwardly protruding tab for
engaging an inner surface of the carrier and thereby securing the bracket to the carrier.
[0011]     The carrier may have a substantially U-shaped cross-section with a base and two
side walls extending away from the base. During installation of the bracket in the carrier, the
outwardly protruding tab engages with an inner surface of the carrier thereby securing the
bracket within the carrier. This inner surface of the carrier may for example be the side wall of
the carrier. Thus, the bracket is located within the carrier rather than around the outside of the
carrier. This permits the bracket, and therefore the panel, to be attached at any position along
the carrier, regardless of the position at which the carrier is attached to the wall or ceiling.
There is also no need to provide additional space around the top of the carrier if the bracket is

                                                 -3
to be attached to the carrier after the carrier has been attached to the wall or ceiling, as the
bracket is not fixed around the outside of the carrier and does not need to be screwed to the
carrier.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0012]     Further features, aspects, and advantages of the present disclosure will also become
apparent from the following detailed description of embodiments, when read in conjunction
with the exemplary drawings in which:
[0013]     Figure 2a shows an isometric view of a bracket in accordance with the present
disclosure.
[0014]     Figure 2b shows a blank, for example a metal blank, from which the bracket of
Figure 2a may be formed.
[0015]     Figure 2c shows an end view of the bracket of Figure 2a.
[0016]     Figure 2d shows a side view of the bracket of Figure 2a.
[0017]     Figure 3a shows an isometric view of a further bracket in accordance with the
present disclosure.
[0018]     Figure 3b shows a side view of the bracket of Figure 3a.
[0019]     Figure 3c shows an end view of the bracket of Figure 3a.
[0020]     Figure 3d shows a plan view of a blank from which the bracket of Figure 3a can be
formed.
[0021]     Figure 4a shows an isometric view of a further bracket in accordance with the
present disclosure.
[0022]     Figure 4b shows a side view of the bracket of Figure 4a.
[0023]     Figure 4c shows an end view of the bracket of Figure 4a.

                                                -4
[0024]     Figure 4d shows a plan view of a blank from which the bracket of Figure 4a can be
made.
[0025]     Figure 5a shows an isometric view of a further bracket in accordance with the
present disclosure.
[0026]     Figure 5b shows a side view of the bracket of Figure 5a.
[0027]     Figure 6 shows an isometric view of a bracket in accordance with the present
disclosure being mounted in a carrier.
[0028]     Figure 7 shows a cross-sectional view of a bracket in accordance with the present
disclosure, the bracket being installed in a carrier and a panel being mounted to the bracket.
[0029]     Figure 8a shows an end view of a further bracket in accordance with the present
disclosure being installed in a carrier and having a panel mounted to the bracket.
[0030]     Figure 8b shows a side view of the bracket, carrier and panel assembly of Figure 8a.
[0031]     Figure 9 shows an isometric view of an assembly comprising a bracket in
accordance with the present disclosure, the bracket being installed in a carrier, and a panel
being mounted to the bracket.
[0032]     Figure 1Oa shows a cut away side view of a bracket comprising a rotatable element
in accordance with the present disclosure.
[0033]     Figure 1Ob shows an end view of the bracket of Figure 1Oa.
[0034]     Figure 1Oc shows an end view of the bracket of Figure 1Oa with the rotatable
element being in a different position to that shown in Figure 10b.
[0035]     Figure 11 shows an end view of a further bracket comprising a rotatable element in
accordance with the present disclosure.
[0036]     Figure 12a shows a cut away side view of the bracket of Figure 10a being mounted
in a carrier.

                                                  -5
[0037]        Figure 12b shows an end view of the bracket and carrier assembly of Figure 12a.
[0038]        Figure 12c shows an isometric view of the bracket and carrier assembly of Figure
12a.
[0039]        Figure 13 shows an end view of the bracket and carrier assembly of Figure 12b with
the rotatable element being in a different position to that shown in Figure 12b.
[0040]        Figure 14a shows an end view of the bracket and carrier assembly of Figure 12b
with the rotatable element being in a different position to that shown in Figure 12b.
[0041]        Figure 14b shows an isometric view of the bracket and carrier assembly of Figure
14a.
[0042]        Figure 15 shows an end view of the bracket and carrier assembly of Figure 13
including a panel.
[0043]       The accompanying drawings are provided for purposes of illustration only, and the
dimensions, positions, order, and relative sizes reflected in the drawings attached hereto may
vary. The detailed description will be better understood in conjunction with the accompanying
drawings. Reference now will be made in detail to embodiments of the present subject matter,
one or more examples of which are illustrated in the drawings. Each example is provided by
way of explanation of the present subject matter, not limitation of the present subject matter. In
fact, it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can
be made in the present disclosure without departing from the scope or spirit of the present
subject matter. For instance, features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment can
be used with another embodiment to yield a still further embodiment. Thus, it is intended that
the present subject matter covers such modifications and variations as come within the scope
of the appended claims and their equivalents.
[0044]        Even though two or more figures illustrating different embodiments may have such
elements that are structurally and/or functionally similar, the presence of a same reference
sign or number in otherwise different embodiments should not be understood as limiting the
disclosure to the specific element nor the scope of protection of the claimed subject-matter.

                                                 -6
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0045]     The afore-mentioned and other features and advantages of the present disclosure
will be readily apparent from the following detailed description, the scope of the disclosure
being set out in the appended claims.
[0046]     According to an embodiment, the bracket may further comprise one or more slots for
receiving a panel. Each flange may comprise a pair of slots for receiving a panel, each slot of
said pair of slots extending from opposite side edges of the flange at a location further away
from the base than the outwardly protruding tab.
[0047]     The slots may each receive an edge of a panel. The term slot is used to describe a
profiled portion of the edge of the flange, including at least a support surface to provide support
to a portion of a ceiling panel, e.g. a surface extending in the direction of the opposite edge of
the flange, preferably in the direction of the orientation of the panel. E.g. for a horizontally
extending panel the support surface may also extend horizontally, for a ceiling panel oriented
at an angle, the support surface may include an angle which provides the desired support. The
support surface may also be contoured to accommodate an edge of the ceiling panel. A slot
may be an incision, or cutout, including two parallel spaced apart surfaces, the lower one of
which to provide support to the ceiling panel. By providing the slots on the side edges of the
flanges, the panel covers the distal end of the flanges and also the side edges between the
distal end and the slots. This hides the bracket from view. Furthermore, where it is desired
that panels be placed adjacent to each other without leaving a visible gap, this is possible as
the brackets can be placed adjacent to each other on the carrier with the result that the sides
of the panels touch each other.
[0048]     In an embodiment, the slots are located closer to the distal end of the flange than the
outwardly protruding tab, so that the installation of the bracket in the carrier does not affect,
and is not affected by, the mounting of the panel to the bracket.
[0049]     Sometimes it is desirable to space the panel downwardly from the ceiling, or away
from a wall, for example, to allow cables, lighting, air ducts, etc. to be located in the space
between the wall or ceiling and the panel. This may be achieved by suspending the carrier
away from the ceiling or spacing the carrier from the wall, and/or the bracket may be used to
achieve spacing of the panel from the carrier. In this case, the distance along the flange
between the slots and the outwardly protruding tab can be maximized.

                                                 -7
[0050]     Advantageously, the bracket is made from a single metal blank, such that it is formed
integrally from the same material. Preferably the bracket is made from a resilient material
which is able to be flexed, such as sheet metal, for example. Alternatively the bracket may be
made from two different materials, a resilient material being used for the flanges at least.
Where the flanges or the whole bracket is formed from a resilient material, the bracket may be
inserted in the carrier by pressing the flanges towards each other and inserting the base of the
bracket in the carrier at the same time. This allows the bracket to be inserted at any position
into the carrier, without the need to bend the side walls of the carrier or to insert the bracket
from an end of the carrier. Once the flanges are released, they will move back to their original
position spaced from each other, thereby causing the outwardly protruding tabs to engage the
inner surfaces of the side walls of the carrier.
[0051]     The bracket may comprise one or more outwardly protruding tabs per flange. For
example, each flange may comprise a single outwardly protruding tab located roughly centrally
between the side edges of the flange. Alternatively, each flange may comprise two outwardly
protruding tabs, one located at each side edge of the flange. The outwardly protruding tabs
may be formed by providing a slot or cut out in the flange and bending the adjacent part of the
flange outwardly.
[0052]      One single slot or cut out may be provided on each of the side edges of each flange
for both forming the tab and for receiving the panel. Alternatively, two different slots or cut outs
may be provided on each of the side edges of each flange for forming a tab and receiving a
panel, respectively.
[0053]      Preferably, the tabs have sharp edges for allowing the tab to securely engage the
side wall of the carrier.
[0054]     The distal end of the flange and/or the part of the flange adjacent to the slot and
located towards the distal end of the flange may have a curved shape in order to facilitate the
mounting of the panel in the slot.
[0055]     The base may have an inner surface located between the inwardly-facing surfaces of
the flanges and an outer surface on the opposite side of the base, the outer surface being
located adjacent the carrier when the bracket is installed in a carrier. The outer surface of the
base may comprise one or more indexing features such as protrusions. The one or more
protrusions may be configured to fit into corresponding through holes, blind holes or recesses

                                                 -8
in the carrier. This may aid with positioning the bracket in the carrier. The protrusions may
include a through hole extending through the base of the bracket and through the protrusion.
Alternatively, these indexing features may be provided on the carrier, or on both the carrier and
the bracket. These indexing features may be provided at regular or irregular intervals, or
according to a specified pattern. However, it should be clear that these indexing features are
optional, and that the bracket and carrier can both be provided without indexing features. This
allows the bracket to be positioned freely inside the carrier at any position.
[0056]      The flanges may extend substantially perpendicular to the base of the bracket.
Alternatively, the flanges may extend at an angle greater than 90 degrees away from the inner
surface of the base, such as 90-130 degrees for example, so that the flanges no longer extend
in a parallel direction to each other but instead extend away from each other.
[0057]      The brackets may have a substantially U or V shape in cross section.
[0058]      In an embodiment, the bracket may further comprise a rotatable element, the
rotatable element being rotatably coupled to the base and/or at least one of the flanges. The
rotatable element may comprise one or more slots for receiving a panel. Where slots are
provided on the rotatable element, the flanges of the bracket may not be provided with slots.
The slots provided on the rotatable element may be similar to the slots previously described.
The rotatable element may be coupled by a swivel to the base of the bracket such that the
rotatable element is able to rotate freely with respect to the base of the bracket. The rotatable
element may rotate around an axis perpendicular to the base of the bracket. This permits the
bracket to be held firmly in a carrier whilst the rotatable element of the bracket permits a panel
held by the bracket to be aligned at various angles with respect to the carrier. The swivel may
be, for example, a bolt and nut.
[0059]      The rotatable element may comprise a base portion and two flange portions
extending away from the base portion, the base portion being located between the two flange
portions. The base portion of the rotatable element may be rotatably coupled to the base of
the bracket, for example by a swivel. Each flange portion of the rotatable element may
comprise at least one slot for receiving a panel. The distal end of a flange portion and/or the
part of a flange portion adjacent to a slot and located towards the distal end of the flange
portion may have a curved shape in order to facilitate the mounting of a panel in the slot.

                                                 -9
[0060]      The rotatable element may be made from a single metal blank, such that it is formed
integrally from the same material.
[0061]      In embodiments where the bracket is provided with a rotatable element, the bracket
may be inserted in the carrier by pressing the flanges towards each other and inserting the
flanges of the bracket in the carrier at the same time. This allows the bracket to be inserted at
any position into the carrier, without the need to bend the side walls of the carrier or to insert
the bracket from an end of the carrier. Once the flanges are released, they will move back to
their original position spaced from each other, thereby causing the outwardly protruding tabs to
engage the inner surfaces of the side walls of the carrier thereby holding the bracket in position
with respect to the carrier. The base of the bracket will then protrude from the carrier away
from the ceiling or wall. In embodiments, the base of the bracket may be coupled to the
rotatable element, which may be able to freely rotate relative to the base of the bracket. The
rotatable element may be provided with slots for receiving a panel as described above.
[0062]      The present disclosure further provides a bracket and carrier assembly, and a
bracket, carrier and panel assembly. The carriers may be ceiling or wall carriers, and the
panels may be ceiling or wall panels. The panels may be linear panels. Alternatively, the
panels may be substantially square panels or rectangular or other shapes.
[0063]      In an embodiment, the carrier may comprise a carrier base and two side walls which
extend in substantially the same direction away from and substantially perpendicular to the
carrier base and the tabs of the bracket are each configured to engage with an inner surface of
a side wall of the carrier.
[0064]      In an embodiment, the carrier may comprise a carrier base and two side walls which
extend in substantially the same direction away from and substantially perpendicular to the
carrier base and wherein a distal end of each of the side walls of the carrier is curved inwardly,
and the tabs of the bracket are each configured to engage with a curved side wall or an edge
of a curved side wall of the carrier.
[0065]      A bracket 11 in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure is depicted
in Figure 2a. The bracket 11 comprises a base 15 and two side legs or flanges 18 which
extend away from the base. The flanges terminate at distal end 12. The flanges 18 and the
base 15 are preferably made out of a single piece of material, which may, for example, be a
sheet metal. It is preferable that at least the flanges 18 are made from a resilient material such

                                                 - 10
that, on application of a force, the flanges may be pressed inwardly, i.e. towards each other,
and may then return to their original position once the force is removed. Each flange 18 has
two side edges 13 which extend between the base 15 and the distal end 12 of the flange 18.
Each flange 18 comprises two slots 17 which extend from the side edge 13 of the flange 18.
Preferably, the slots 17 are located across from each other, one on each side edge 13 of the
flange 18, and extend laterally towards each other, as can be seen in Figure 2b. The part of
the flange that extends adjacent to the slot 17 and which is located between the base 15 and
slot 17, may then be bent in an outward direction to form an outwardly protruding tab 14 as
shown in Figure 2a. These tabs are configured to engage with the side wall of a carrier to
permit the bracket 11 to be mounted in the carrier, as shown in more detail in Figure 7.
[0066]     The flanges 18 also each include two slots 16 for receiving a panel to be mounted to
the bracket. The slots 16 are located between the tabs 14 and the distal end 12 of the flange
18. Both flanges have an inwardly facing surface 21 and an outwardly facing surface 20.
[0067]     The bracket 11, in this example, further comprises two protrusions 29 located on the
outer surface 19 of the base 15. These protrusions 29 are configured to fit into corresponding
holes or recesses in the carrier, in order to hinder longitudinal movement of the bracket 11
along the carrier. Although two protrusions 29 are shown in this example, the bracket 11 may
comprise just a single protrusion 29 located on the outer surface 19 of the base 15, or
alternatively the bracket may comprise three or more protrusions 29 located on the outer
surface 19 of the base 15. Alternatively, the bracket may comprise no protrusions 29 at all.
Another way of preventing longitudinal movement of the bracket 11 along the carrier is to
provide the tabs 14 with a sharpened edge 24 as shown in Figure 2c. The sharpened edge is
configured to dig into the inside surface of the side wall of the carrier, thereby maintaining the
bracket in position. The sharpened edges 24 of the tabs 14 are optional, and may be provided
whether or not the bracket comprises protrusions 29 located on the outer surface of the base
15.
[0068]     The bracket 11 of this example has flanges which extend away from the base 15 at
an angle a with respect to the inner surface 23 of the base 15 as shown in Figure 2c.
Preferably, the angle a is more than 90', in order to permit the tabs 14 to fully engage with the
carrier when the bracket is installed in the carrier. However, the angle a may alternatively be
90' or less than 90', particularly in the case where the side walls of the carrier bend inwardly
or are provided with an interior lip or ridge for engaging the tab 14. The angle a may
advantageously be in the range of 95-105'.

                                                 - 11
[0069]     Figure 3a shows a different bracket in accordance with an embodiment of the
present disclosure. However, features which are common to the other brackets described in
these examples have the same reference numerals for ease of understanding.
[0070]     The bracket of Figure 3a does not have slots 17 and tabs 14 located at the side
edges 13 of each flange 18. Instead, each flange 18 of the bracket of Figure 3a has a single
slot 26 formed approximately half-way between the side edges 13 of the flange 18. The slot
26 forms a U-shape, but could alternatively be of a V-shape or a U-shape having right-angled
corners, for example. The part of the flange surrounded by the U-shaped slot may be pushed
in an outward direction to form an outwardly protruding flap or tab 27. The tab 27 is configured
to engage with the carrier in a similar manner to the tabs 14 of the bracket depicted in Figure
2a. Again, if desired, the edges of the tabs 27 may be sharpened for more secure
engagement with the inside surface of the side wall of the carrier. The bracket of Figure 3a is
shown having two protrusions 29 on the outer surface 19 of the base 15, however, as
explained above, one or more protrusions may instead be provided, or indeed no protrusions
may be provided.
[0071]     As can be seen in Figures 3b and 2d, the distal end of the flanges adjacent to the
panel receiving slots 16 is rounded in order to facilitate insertion of a panel edge as shown in
Figures 8b and 9.
[0072]     Figure 4a shows a bracket similar to that depicted in Figure 3a, but without any
protrusions 29 on the outer surface 19 of the base 15 of the bracket. Furthermore, the flanges
18 of the bracket shown in Figure 4a have a greater distance L2 between the most distal part
of the slot 26 and the distal end 12 of the flange. By contrast, the bracket of Figure 3a has a
shorter distance Li between the most distal part of the slot 26 and the distal end 12 of the
flange 18. By providing a greater distance between the slot 26 and the distal end 12 of the
bracket (or indeed a greater distance L2a as shown in Figure 4b than the distance Lia as
shown in Figure 3b), the panel may be suspended at a desired distance away from the carrier.
Accordingly, the bracket may be dimensioned such that the panel may be mounted at a
position very close to the carrier, or alternatively spaced apart from the carrier, as desired.
[0073]     The bracket shown in Figure 2a may also be dimensioned accordingly by increasing
or decreasing the distance in a distally extending direction between the slots 17 and 16 as
required.

                                               - 12
[0074]     Figure 5 shows a further bracket in accordance with an embodiment of the present
disclosure. This bracket includes tabs 14 as described with reference to Figure 2a, however,
instead of providing, on each side edge of each flange, a slot 17 and a separate slot 16 for
receiving a panel, instead, in this example, one single slot 28 is provided. The tabs 14 are
formed as described with respect to Figure 2a above, and a panel is able to be mounted in the
same slot 28. The slots 28 may need to be larger in a distally extending direction in order to
accommodate the tab 14 inside the carrier, and the panel edge outside the carrier.
[0075]     Again, although Figure 5a shows protrusions 29 being located on the outer surface
19 of the base 15, as explained above, these protrusions are optional, and, when included,
may comprise one or more protrusions.
[0076]     Figure 6 shows a bracket 11 mounted in a carrier 30. The bracket 11 may be any of
the brackets described above or any other bracket falling within the scope of the claims.
[0077]     Figure 7 shows a bracket 11 fitted within a carrier 30. The bracket 11 is similar to
that shown in Figure 2a. The carrier 30 includes a carrier base 32 and two side walls 33 which
extend in a substantially perpendicular direction away from the carrier base 32. The distal
ends of the side walls of the carrier 33 are curved inwardly 34 and the tabs 14 are configured
to engage with the edge 35 of a carrier side wall 33 in order to maintain the bracket 11 in
position within the carrier 30. A panel 38 is mounted to the bracket 11. In this example, the
carrier 30 includes holes 36 in the base of the carrier for receiving the protrusion 29. Although
Figure 7 shows the hole 36 as being a through hole, instead this may be a recess rather than a
through hole. The protrusion 29 may be a solid protrusion, a hollow protrusion, or may be in
the form of a through hole 37 with a surrounding rim.
[0078]     Figure 8a shows a bracket similar to that described with respect to Figure 4a. This
bracket includes tabs 27 which are configured to engage with the inside surface 31 of the side
wall 33 of the carrier 30. In this example, the bracket has no protrusions 29, however, as
explained above, one or more protrusions 29 might optionally be provided to engage with
holes or recesses provided in the base of the carrier. The panel 38 includes bent or curved
panel edges 39 which are configured to be mounted into the slots 16 of the bracket 11 as
shown in Figures 8b and 9.
[0079]     Where the panels to be mounted are linear panels, as shown in Figure 9, and/or
where the panels are of relatively small width, a bracket can be dimensioned to accommodate

                                                 - 13
both panel edges 39. Panels of different widths may be accommodated by using brackets of
different widths which correspond to the widths of the panels to be mounted. However, where
the panel is of a substantial width, instead of providing a very wide bracket, instead two
narrower brackets may be positioned along the carrier, one bracket being to receive one of the
panel edges 39, and the other bracket being to receive the other panel edge 39 of the panel
38. In this case, the brackets may optionally be provided with just a single panel receiving slot
16 on each flange 18.
[0080]     Although the examples show two tabs 14 being located on each of the flanges 18, a
single tab 14 on each flange may instead be provided. Alternatively, more tabs than those
depicted in the drawings may be provided. Furthermore, the U-shaped tab 27 may, as
previously explained, instead be of square or rectangular shape, or alternatively a V or other
shape. The tab 27 may also be located at a position other than a substantially central position
between the side edges 13 of a flange 18. Furthermore, two or more such tabs 27 might be
provided on each flange 18. Additionally, if desired, the tabs 27 may be provided in
combination with the tabs 14.
[0081]     The above examples describe the tabs being formed integrally with the bracket.
However, the tabs may be formed from a different material to the bracket and may be secured
to the bracket during manufacture of the bracket.
[0082]      It can be seen that the present disclosure provides a bracket which may be inserted
through the open distal part of the carrier by pressing the flanges towards each other. Upon
release, the flanges will flex back to their original position, causing the tabs to engage with the
side wall 33 of the carrier or/and with the longitudinal edge 35 of the side wall of the carrier,
thereby installing the bracket in a desired position within the carrier. Alternatively, the tabs
themselves may be made from a resilient material so that they flex inwardly during insertion of
the bracket into the carrier, and snap back once they have passed the curved ends 34 of the
side wall of the carrier. An advantage of the present disclosure is that the bracket may be
installed in any desired position along the length of the carrier, and further may be installed by
using just one hand. Where the flanges are made of a resilient material, the bracket can
readily be removed and/or repositioned, simply by compressing the flanges towards each
other.

                                                - 14
[0083]     Figures 1Oa - 1Oc show a different bracket in accordance with an embodiment of the
present disclosure. However, features which are common to the other brackets described in
these examples have the same reference numerals for ease of understanding.
[0084]     The bracket 40 of Figures 10a - 1Oc comprises a base 15 and two side legs or
flanges 18 which extend away from the base. The flanges terminate at distal end 12. The
flanges 18 and the base 15 are preferably made out of a single piece of material, which may,
for example, be a sheet metal. It is preferable that at least the flanges 18 are made from a
resilient material such that, on application of a force, the flanges may be pressed inwardly, i.e.
towards each other, and may then return to their original position once the force is removed.
Each flange 18 has two side edges 13 which extend between the base 15 and the distal end
12 of the flange 18. Each flange 18 comprises two slots 17 which extend from the side edge
13 of the flange 18. Preferably, the slots 17 are located across from each other, one on each
side edge 13 of the flange 18, and extend laterally towards each other, as can be seen in
Figure 10a. The part of the flange that extends adjacent to the slot 17 and which is located
between the distal end 12 and slot 17, may then be bent in an outward direction to form an
outwardly protruding tab 14 as shown in Figure 10b. These tabs are configured to engage with
the side wall of a carrier to permit the bracket 40 to be mounted in the carrier, as shown in
more detail in Figures 12a and 12b.
[0085]     The bracket 40 of this embodiment further comprises a rotatable element 41 which is
rotatably coupled to the base 15 of the bracket. The rotatable element 41 may be able to
rotate freely about an axis A which is perpendicular to the plane of the base 15 of the bracket.
Alternatively, stops may be provided in order to limit the extent of rotation of the rotating
element or to fix the rotating element in position once the desired degree of rotation has been
achieved. In this embodiment, the rotatable element 41 is coupled to the base 15 of the
bracket by a swivel 42, which may be, for example, a bolt and nut arrangement. This permits
the rotatable element 41 to rotate relative to the base 15 of the bracket and thereby enables
the bracket 40 to be held firmly in a carrier whilst the rotatable element 41 of the bracket 40
permits a panel held by the bracket 40 to be aligned at various angles with respect to the
carrier.
[0086]     Figures 1Oa and 1Ob show a cut away side view and an end view respectively of the
bracket 40 when the rotatable element 41 is rotated approximately 0 degrees with respect to
the base 15 of the bracket. Figure 1Oc shows a end view of the bracket 40 when the rotatable
element 41 is rotated approximately 90 degrees with respect to the base 15 of the bracket 40.

                                               - 15
[0087]     The rotatable element 41 of this embodiment comprises slots 43 for receiving and
holding a panel. It can be seen that, in contrast to the previous embodiments, the slots are not
provided on the flanges 18 of the bracket 40 but are instead provided on the rotatable element
41.
[0088]     The rotatable element 41 of this embodiment comprises a base portion 44 and two
flange portions 45 extending away from the base portion 44, the base portion 44 being located
between the two flange portions 45. In this embodiment, the base portion 44 of the rotatable
element 41 is rotatably coupled by swivel 42 to the base 15 of the bracket 40.
[0089]     In this embodiment, the distal end 47 of the flange portions and the part of a flange
portion 45 adjacent to a slot 43 and located towards the distal end 47 of the flange portions
have a curved shape 46 in order to facilitate the mounting of a panel in the slot 43.
[0090]     The rotatable element 41 may be made from a single piece of material, which may,
for example, be a sheet metal blank, such that it is formed integrally from the same material.
[0091]     In an alternative embodiment, the slots 17 and tabs 14 of the bracket 40 may be
replaced with an outwardly protruding flap or tab 27 similar to that shown in Figures 3a - 3d
and 4a - 4d. The tab 27 may be configured to engage with the carrier in a similar manner to
the tabs 14 of the bracket depicted in Figures 10a - 1Oc. If desired, the edges of the tabs 14
or the tabs 27 may be sharpened for more secure engagement with the inside surface of the
side wall of the carrier.
[0092]     The flange portions 45 of the rotatable element may extend a short distance from the
base portion 44 to their distal ends 47 where it is desired that the panel is fitted relatively close
to the carrier. Where is it desired that the panels be suspended at a distance from the carrier,
the flange portions 45 of the rotatable element may instead extend a considerable distance
from the base portion 44 to their distal ends 47.
[0093]     Figure 11 shows a different bracket in accordance with further embodiment of the
present disclosure. However, features which are common to the other brackets described in
these examples have the same reference numerals for ease of understanding.
[0094]     In Figure 11, the bracket 50 has a rotatable element 41 which is rotated
approximately 90 degrees with respect to the base 15 of the bracket 50. The bracket 50 is
mounted in a carrier 30 which includes a carrier base 32 and two side walls 33 which extend in

                                                - 16
a substantially perpendicular direction away from the carrier base 32. The distal ends of the
side walls of the carrier 33 are curved inwardly 34 and the tabs 14 of the bracket 50 are
configured to engage with the edge 35 of a carrier side wall 33 in order to maintain the bracket
50 in position within the carrier 30. Slots 43 are provided at the distal end 47 of the flange
portions 45 of the rotatable element 41 for receiving and holding a panel. The slots 43 of this
embodiment have a different shape to the slots 43 of the previously described embodiment.
The shape of the slots 43 may be configured in accordance with the shape of the edges of the
panel to be received in the slots 43. As in the previous embodiment, the distal end 47 of the
flange portions and the part of a flange portion 45 adjacent to a slot 43 and located towards
the distal end 47 of the flange portions have a curved shape 46 in order to facilitate the
mounting of a panel in the slot 43.
[0095]     Figure 12a - 12c show the bracket 40 of Figures 10a - 1Oc mounted in carrier 30.
The bracket 40 is mounted in a similar manner to the bracket 50 of Figure 11. Figure 12a
shows a cut-away side view of the assembly, Figure 12b shows an end view and Figure 12c
an isometric view. In Figures 12a - 12c the rotatable element 41 of the bracket 40 is rotated
approximately 0 degrees with respect to the base 15 of the bracket. Accordingly, a linear
panel mounted on the bracket 40 will extend in a longitudinal direction perpendicular to the
longitudinal length of the carrier 30 when the rotatable element is positioned at approximately 0
degrees of rotation with respect to the base 15 of the bracket.
[0096]     Figure 13 shows the bracket 40 of Figures 10a - 1Oc and 12a - 12c mounted in
carrier 30. Figure 13 shows an end view of the carrier and bracket assembly similar to Figure
12b, however in Figure 13 the rotatable element 41 of the bracket 40 is rotated approximately
90 degrees with respect to the base 15 of the bracket, which is fixed in the carrier 30.
Accordingly, in this example, linear panels mounted on the rotatable element 41 of the bracket
40 will extend in a longitudinal direction parallel to the longitudinal length of the carrier 30.
[0097]     Figures 14a and 14b are end and isometric views respectively of the bracket 40 of
Figures 1Oa - 1Oc, 12a - 12c and 13 mounted in carrier 30. In Figures 14a and 14b the
rotatable element 41 of the bracket 40 is positioned at an angle of between 0 and 90 degrees
with respect to the base 15 of the bracket, which is fixed in the carrier 30. In practice, the
rotatable element 41 of the bracket 40 may be positioned at any desired angle (from 0 to 360
degrees) with respect to the base 15 thereby enabling panels to be mounted at any angle with
respect to the carrier 30. This may be particularly useful for mounting elongate ceiling or wall
panels.

                                                   - 17
[0098]      Figure 15 shows the bracket 40 of Figure 13 where the rotatable element 41 is
positioned at an angle of 90 degrees relative to the base 15 of the bracket 40. The bracket 40
is fixed in the carrier, and a panel 38 is held by the bracket 40. The panel 38 has, in this
example, panel edges 39 which are bent inwardly and which are received by the slots 43 of the
rotatable element 41 of the bracket 40. In this example, the longitudinal direction of the panel
will extend in a direction parallel to the carrier 30. As explained above, the rotatable element
41 of the bracket 40 may be rotated from 0 to 360 degrees relative to the base 15 of the
bracket which is fixed with respect to the carrier 30. This enables the panel to be rotated such
that the longitudinal length of the panel may extend parallel to the longitudinal length of the
carrier, perpendicular to the longitudinal length of the carrier, or at any desired angle in
between.
[0099]      In the foregoing description, it will be appreciated that the phrases "at least one",
"one or more", and "and/or", as used herein, are open-ended expressions that are both
conjunctive and disjunctive in operation. The term "a" or "an" entity, as used herein, refers to
one or more of that entity. As such, the terms "a" (or "an"), "one or more" and "at least one" can
be used interchangeably herein. All directional references (e.g., proximal, distal, upper, lower,
upward, downward, left, right, lateral, longitudinal, front, back, top, bottom, above, below,
vertical, horizontal, radial, axial, clockwise, counterclockwise, and/or the like) are only used for
identification purposes to aid the reader's understanding of the present disclosure, and / or
serve to distinguish regions of the associated elements from one another, and do not limit the
associated element, particularly as to the position, orientation, or use of this disclosure.
Connection references (e.g., attached, coupled, connected, and joined) are to be construed
broadly and may include intermediate members between a collection of elements and relative
movement between elements unless otherwise indicated. As such, connection references do
not necessarily infer that two elements are directly connected and in fixed relation to each
other. Identification references (e.g., primary, secondary, first, second, third, fourth, etc.) are
not intended to connote importance or priority, but are used to distinguish one feature from
another.
[00100]     In the claims, the term "comprises/comprising" does not exclude the presence of
other elements or steps. Furthermore, although individually listed, a plurality of means,
elements or method steps may be implemented by, e.g., a single unit or processor.
Additionally, although individual features may be included in different claims, these may
possibly advantageously be combined, and the inclusion in different claims does not imply that
a combination of features is not feasible and/or advantageous. In addition, singular references

                                               - 18
donot exclude a plurality. The terms "a", "an", "first", "second", etc., do not preclude a plurality.
Reference signs in the claims are provided merely as a clarifying example and shall not be
construed as limiting the scope of the claims in any way.
[00101]    It is to be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art that the present discussion is
a description of exemplary embodiments only, and is not intended as limiting the broader
aspects of the present disclosure.
[00102]    The following claims are hereby incorporated into this Detailed Description by this
reference, with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of the present
disclosure. In the claims, the term "comprises/comprising" does not exclude the presence of
other elements or steps. Furthermore, although individually listed, a plurality of means,
elements or method steps may be implemented by, e.g., a single unit or processor.
Additionally, although individual features may be included in different claims, these may
possibly advantageously be combined, and the inclusion in different claims does not imply that
a combination of features is not feasible and/or advantageous. In addition, singular references
do not exclude a plurality. The terms "a", "an", "first", "second", etc., do not preclude a plurality.
Reference signs in the claims are provided merely as a clarifying example and shall not be
construed as limiting the scope of the claims in any way.

                                                - 19
CLAIMS
1.         A bracket for mounting panels to a carrier, the bracket comprising a base and two
flanges extending away from the base, the base being located between the two flanges, each
flange having an inwardly-facing surface and an outwardly-facing surface bounded by two side
edges and a distal end, and wherein each flange comprises at least one outwardly protruding
tab for engaging an inner surface of the carrier and thereby securing the bracket to the carrier.
2.         A bracket according to claim 1 wherein the bracket is made from a resilient material.
3.         A bracket according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein each flange comprises two
outwardly protruding tabs, one located at each side edge of the flange.
4.         A bracket according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein each flange comprises a single
outwardly protruding tab located substantially centrally between the side edges of the flange.
5.         A bracket according to any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the tabs have sharp edges
for allowing the tab to securely engage the side wall of the carrier.
6.         A bracket according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the bracket further
comprises one or more slots for receiving a panel.
7.         A bracket according to any one of claims 1 to 6 wherein each flange comprises a
pair of slots for receiving a panel, each slot of said pair of slots extending from a different side
edge of the flange at a location further away from the base than the outwardly protruding tab.
8.         A bracket according to any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein two different slots or cut
outs are provided on each of the side edges of each flange for forming a tab and receiving a
panel, respectively, or alternatively wherein one single slot or cut out is provided on each of the
side edges of each flange for both forming a tab and for receiving a panel.
9.         A bracket according to any one of claims 6 to 8 wherein the distal end of a flange
and/or the part of a flange adjacent to a slot and located towards the distal end of the flange
has a curved shape in order to facilitate the mounting of a panel in the slot.

                                               - 20
10.         A bracket according to any one of claims 1 to 9 wherein the bracket further
comprises a rotatable element, the rotatable element being rotatably coupled to the base
and/or at least one of the flanges.
11.         A bracket according to claim 10 wherein the rotatable element is coupled by a swivel
to the base of the bracket.
12.         A bracket according to claim 10 or 11 wherein the rotatable element comprises one
or more slots for receiving a panel.
13.         A bracket according to claim 12 wherein the rotatable element has a base portion
and two flange portions extending away from the base portion, the base portion being located
between the two flange portions, wherein the base portion of the rotatable element is rotatably
coupled to the base of the bracket, and wherein each flange portion of the rotatable element
comprises at least one slot for receiving a panel.
14.         A bracket according to claim 13 wherein the distal end of a flange portion and/or the
part of a flange portion adjacent to a slot and located towards the distal end of the flange
portion has a curved shape in order to facilitate the mounting of a panel in the slot.
15.         A carrier and bracket assembly wherein the bracket is in accordance with any one of
claims 1 to 14.
16.         A carrier and associated bracket wherein the bracket is in accordance with any one
of claims 1 to 14 and wherein the carrier comprises a carrier base and two side walls which
extend in substantially the same direction away from and substantially perpendicular to the
carrier base and wherein the tabs of the bracket are each configured to engage with an inner
surface of a side wall of the carrier.
17.         A carrier and associated bracket wherein the bracket is in accordance with any one
of claims 1 to 14 and wherein the carrier comprises a carrier base and two side walls which
extend in substantially the same direction away from and substantially perpendicular to the
carrier base and wherein a distal end of each of the side walls of the carrier is curved inwardly
and wherein the tabs of the bracket are each configured to engage with a curved side wall or
an edge of a curved side wall of the carrier.

                                             -21
18.       A carrier, bracket and panel assembly wherein the bracket is in accordance with any
one of claims 1 to 14.
19.       A carrier, bracket and panel assembly wherein the bracket is installed in the carrier
and the panel is mounted to the bracket, the bracket being in accordance with any one of
claims 1 to 14 and the panel being a linear panel.
20.       A carrier, bracket and panel assembly in accordance with claim 19 wherein the panel
comprises bent or curved panel edges which are configured to be mounted into the panel
receiving slots of the bracket.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
