                                         18
ABSTRACT:
Rubber patch (1) for mounting an active electronic component (10) comprising a
base (2) with a substantially planar connecting face (3) intended to be fixed to the
internal surface of a tyre and an opposite support face able to act as a support for
the said active electronic component (10), characterized in that it comprises,
arranged between the said two faces (3,4), a passive label (5) for identifying the
corresponding tyre, which is provided with a memory capable of storing a unique
identification data item pertaining to this tyre. The invention also provides a
corresponding tyre monitoring system.
Figure 4
                                                                            2014-061WO

WO 2015/140623                  PCT/IB2015/000362
                    2/4
                         47
                              3
                 Figure 3
                 1r       5
               4            3
                 Figure 4

                                              1
                            MOUNTING PATCH FOR A TYRE
   TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   [0001] The present invention relates to a rubber patch for mounting an active
 5 electronic component for a tyre. The patch comprises a base with a substantially
   planar connecting face intended to be fixed to the internal surface of a tyre. It also
   comprises a support face able to act as a support for the said active electronic
   component. The invention also relates to a tyre comprising, fixed to its internal
   surface, a mounting patch as described hereinabove.
10
   PRIOR ART
   [0002] Patent application W02012/069515 proposes a device for fixing a module
   to the internal wall of a tyre, consisting of a base secured to the tyre and of a
is flexible strip. The base comprises means of fixing the strip and the ends of the
   flexible strip comprise at least two independent means of attachment of the
   module. The flexible strip is arranged removably in the base using two openings in
   the base through which the strip can pass. The flexible strip has three portions: a
   middle portion, made of bi-elastic fabric and two end portions each connected to
20 the middle portion and made of hook-and-loop fabric. It may also be a single
   component entity in the form of a strip of hook-and-loop fabric (a Velcro strip).
   [0003] Document W02011/039486 describes a pressure measuring component
   comprising a pressure measuring surface functionally connected to a test body
25 and a sealed pressure-measurement casing in which the test body is arranged.
   The pressure measuring surface is borne by a deformable wall of the sealed
   pressure measuring casing extending some distance from the test body. The
   sealed pressure measuring casing delimits a space internal to the sealed casing.
   Means of transmitting pressure between the pressure measuring surface and the
30 test body comprising a substantially incompressible material occupy the entirety of
   the internal space.

                                              2
   [0004] In the technologies described hereinabove, the sensors are removable
   and can be removed at any time from their fixing to a first tyre so that they can
   subsequently be fixed to a tyre, without any assurance that this is the same tyre.
   Thus, if the data received from the sensors are analysed for the purposes of
 5 monitoring how the tyres change over time, there is a risk that the monitoring will
   relate to more than one single tyre, without there being any way of checking or
   being informed of this.
   [0005] Also known is a system for monitoring tyre pressures comprising an
10 identification element incorporated into the tread of the tyre that is to be monitored,
   a mount, placed against the internal wall of the tyre, in line with the identification
   element, and to which a pressure sensor is fixed. The pressure sensor receives
   identification data from the element incorporated into the tyre. This same sensor
   transmits out of the tyre data regarding the pressure of the identified tyre. This
15 type of system involves firstly, modifying the design of the tyre so as to allow the
   identification element to be incorporated and secondly modifying the method of
   manufacture of this tyre in order to provide steps for incorporating the identification
   element. Aside from the significant costs elicited through these modifications, the
   fact of introducing steps of incorporating a small and particularly fragile component
20 into a heavy and complex industrial process presents numerous difficulties that
   need to be overcome both in terms of quality assurance and in terms of industrial
   engineering in order to ensure that the process does not become excessively
   complex and expensive.
25 [0006] Document W02014/041060 describes a system that allows car tyre data
   to be stored in a sensor provided for that purpose. A system for the RFID
   transmission of data between a label of the tyre and the sensor is provided. The
   system plans to detect the installation of the active sensor on its mount by means
   of electrical contacts. The electrical contacts in question are not incorporated into
30 the mount. Rather, they protrude from the mount with a view to allowing electrical
   contact. When the contact is made, the sensor starts a reading of the identification
   data of the label. This reading through contact makes it possible to ensure that if

                                                3
   the sensor is removed, a new reading operation is performed upon subsequent
   installation. Any change in pairing (ID-sensor) is therefore detected. This system is
   specifically designed for passenger vehicles: the electrical contacts of the sensor
   and of the mount are elements that are fragile and ill-suited to a rigorous
 5 environment such as that of the tyres of civil engineering vehicles.
   [0007] In order to alleviate these various disadvantages, the invention provides
   various technical means.
10 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   [0008] First of all, a first object of the invention is to provide a rubber or rubbery
   patch for mounting a sensor or electronics module allowing long-term use and in
   which the connection between the sensor and the tyre can be checked and
15 ensured.
   [0009] Another object of the invention is to provide a system for monitoring tyres
   without the risk of error regarding the identity of the tyre.
20 [0010] Yet another object of the invention is to provide a tyre monitoring system
   that makes it possible to ensure that the pressure and/or temperature data history
   obtained for a given tyre is rigorously matched to this tyre independently of any
   human intervention.
25 [0011] Yet another object of the invention is to provide a tyre monitoring system
   that is particularly suited to very large-sized tyres such as tyres intended for civil
   engineering vehicles and/or for certain types of agricultural vehicle.
   [0012] For that reason, the invention provides a rubber patch for mounting an
30 active electronic component comprising a base with a substantially planar
   connecting face intended to be fixed to the internal surface of a tyre and an
   opposite support face able to act as a support for the said active electronic

                                               4
   component, wherein the rubber patch comprises a passive label for identifying the
   corresponding tyre, which is provided with a memory capable of storing a unique
   identification data item pertaining to this tyre, the said passive label being
   integrated into the said rubber patch, between the connecting face and the support
 5 face.
   [0013] This design allows the passive label to be afforded optimum protection
   against any attack caused by use in the particularly harsh environment of civil
   engineering vehicle tyres. In particular, this architecture makes it possible to
10 protect the label from the liquids that may be introduced into the tyres in order
   notably to protect the rim from rust, such as Tire Life® by the Fuller Brothers, Inc.
   company. The fully integrated label is well protected from any contact with or
   attack from this product.
15 [0014] There are found to be numerous advantages inherent to integrating a
   passive identification label into the active electronics module mounting patch.
   Furthermore, the reading distance between the active electronics module and the
   patch - passive identification label assembly is very short, well controlled, and
   very well suited to this way of exchanging data. This concept allows the passive
20 identification label to be installed with perfect control over the industrial constraints
   because this installation within the patch is performed outside of the large tyre
   manufacturing process which is ill-suited to incorporating a small and fragile
   component directly into the architecture of the tyre.
25 [0015] Thus, the label is implanted during the patch manufacturing process. The
   latter is far better suited and presents lower risks in the implantation of small-sized
   fragile components. The only modification required to the tyre manufacturing
   method regards the step of bonding the patches to the internal wall of the tyre and
   the inputting of the unique identification data. Because these operations are
30 carried out after the tyre has been finished, they have no great impact on the
   manufacturing process. Finally, implanting the label in the electronics module

                                                5
   mounting patch rather than directly in the tyre means that the label can be located
   in the tyre with no constraint as to its position.
   [0016] According to one advantageous embodiment, the base comprises at least
 5 one strap affording two openings opposite one another so that a fixing strip for
   fixing the said active electronic component can pass and in which the said
   identification component is substantially aligned with the intended location of the
   fixing strip.
10 [0017] According to another advantageous embodiment, the said support face
   comprises a platform of a geometry designed to cooperate with a corresponding
   geometry of the said active electronic component so as to fix the said active
   electronic component.
15 [0018] The said platform is advantageously in the shape of a dovetail.
   [0019] According to yet another advantageous embodiment, the said passive
   identification label comprises a radiofrequency identification transponder of RFID
   type (for example operating at UHF such as 800-900 MHz, at HF such as 13.56
20 MHz, or at low frequency (LF) such as 125 kHz).
   [0020] The invention also provides a tyre comprising, fixed to an internal surface
   of the tyre, a rubber patch for mounting an active electronic component, said
   rubber patch comprising a base with a substantially planar connecting face fixed to
25 the surface of the said tyre and a support face able to act as a support for the said
   active electronic component. The rubber patch comprises a passive label for
   identifying the tyre comprising, written within a memory, a unique identification
   data item pertaining to the tyre to which the patch is fixed, the said passive label
   being integrated into the said patch between the connecting face and the support
30 face.
   [0021] Advantageously, the        said    identification label comprises  a   passive
   radiofrequency identification transponder of RFID type, provided with antennas (for

                                               6
   example operating at UHF such as 800-900 MHz, at HF such as 13.56 MHz, or at
   low frequency (LF) such as 125 kHz).
   [0022] RFID transponders often have relatively short reading distances. For civil
 5 engineering vehicle tyres which may have diameters of as much as 4 m, the
   distance may often prove insufficient to ensure reading if the transponder is, for
   example, located at the top, far away from the reader. According to the invention,
   the use of an active electronics module which itself has longer-range data transfer
   means, allows this limitation to be overcome.
10
   [0023] Advantageously, the tyre is designed to be mounted on civil engineering
   vehicles, particularly mining transport vehicles, or agricultural vehicles.
   [0024] The invention also provides a method for manufacturing a tyre such that it
15 comprises a step of placing an active electronics module rubber mounting patch
   on the internal surface thereof. The rubber patch has a substantially planar
   connecting face and a support face able to act as a support for the said active
   electronics module, and a passive identification label for identifying the tyre which
   is positioned between the said two faces. The placement step is performed by
20 bringing the connecting surface into contact with the internal surface of the tyre.
   The method moreover provides a step of writing to a memory of the said
   identification label a unique identification data item pertaining to the tyre to which
   the rubber patch is fixed.
25 [0025] The method according to the invention makes it possible to guarantee
   good alignment between the active electronics module that measures and
   transfers tyre physical parameters and the tyre identification label (inserted into the
   patch), thereby ensuring that the system operates correctly. By contrast, the
   known method in which an identification component is inserted directly into the
30 tyre does not allow such alignment to be guaranteed or would require the
   incorporation of alignment steps that placed great constraints on the industrial
   manufacture of large-sized tyres such as those considered.

                                             7
   [0026] The method according to the invention is simple to implement and requires
   no substantial modification to the industrial process already established for the
   manufacture of the tyres. The tricky operations of incorporating the passive
 5 identification label are performed in an industrial environment well suited to the
   handling of fragile small-sized components, as compared with the industrial
   environment in which the very large-sized tyres such as those intended for civil
   engineering vehicles are manufactured.
10 [0027] Advantageously, the said step of installing the said rubber patch on the
   surface of the said tyre takes place before the said tyre is vulcanized.
   [0028] In an alternative form of embodiment, the said step of installing the said
   rubber patch on the surface of the said tyre takes place after the said tyre has
15 been vulcanized.
   [0029] The invention also provides an active electronics module for measuring
   and transferring physical tyre parameters, comprising:
   i) at least one sensor (for example a pressure or temperature sensor, a rev
20 counter, preferably of wound type, etc.);
   ii) a power supply (for example a battery and a temporary storage capacity (or
   "booster") to power the RFID reader for a fairly short period of time at a power that
   is high enough to ensure that it operates correctly);
   iii) a data transmission module (for example a radio transmitter of the 433 MHz
25 type) allowing the physical data received from the sensors to be transmitted to a
   remote receiver (for example a receiver situated on the vehicle or to a mobile
   reader or even to a fixed reader situated for example on a marker post along a
   path frequently travelled by the vehicle concerned such as in an operating zone
   such as a mine);
30 in which the measurement and transfer unit also comprises a tyre identifier reader
   (125 kHz, 13.56 MHz or 800 MHz RFID reader) able to receive the identification
   data coming from a rubber patch for a tyre as described hereinabove.

                                                 8
   [0030] This electronics module for measuring and transferring physical tyre
   parameter data advantageously makes it possible:
   - to read the tyre identifier:
 5     either regularly;
       or on demand via an interrogation module;
       or in conjunction with a low-pressure or substantially zero pressure threshold
      test indicating that the tyre and the sensor have potentially become separated
      from one another;
10 - to store this identifier in a local or remote memory;
   - to transmit this identifier via a fairly long-range transmission frequency to a
   receiver on a vehicle, to a mobile reader or to a reading marker post;
   - to associate the measured physical tyre parameters with the correct tyre in a way
   that is certain, such as for example by associating these parameters (km,
15 pressure, temperature, etc.) with the tyre identifier of the patch connected to the
   tyre on which the measurements have been taken;
   - to know how many km have been covered in each pressure and/or temperature
   range;
   - to check that the type of tyre is suited to the type of vehicle.
20
   [0031] The invention finally provides a tyre monitoring system for a vehicle (or
   fleet of vehicles), comprising:
   -         an active electronics module for measuring and transferring physical tyre
   parameters, comprising:
25        i) a pressure sensor;
          ii) a power supply;
          iii) a data transmission module allowing the physical data received from the
          sensor and from an identification label of a rubber patch to be transmitted to
          a remote receiver;
30 -         a monitoring module able to receive from the active electronics module for
   measuring and transferring physical tyre parameters, physical data pertaining to
   the condition or behaviour of the tyre;

                                              9
   -       the rubber patch for mounting an active electronics module comprising a
   base with a substantially planar connecting face intended to be fixed to the internal
   surface of a tyre and an opposite support face able to act as a support for the said
   active electronics module, comprising, arranged between the said two faces, a
 5 passive label for identifying the corresponding tyre;
   -       the said measurement        and transfer active electronics module         also
   comprising a reader of the tyre identifier capable of receiving the identification data
   from the rubber patch to which it is fixed, the said active electronics module being
   designed to take RFID readings from the passive label of the rubber patch after
10 detecting a drop in tyre pressure down to substantially zero bar followed by a rise
   in pressure value up to a value substantially corresponding to the service pressure
   of the tyre.
   [0032] The system according to the invention makes it possible to detect the most
15 probable instances in which the tyres can be removed and makes provision for
   reading the identification data after the tyre has been refitted and reinflated. As
   such instances are somewhat infrequent, the readings are taken only where
   necessary, thus making it possible to save battery energy reserves.
20 [0033] Advantageously, the passive label is integrated into the said patch
   between the connecting face and the support face.
   [0034] Advantageously also, when the patch and the electronics module are
   mounted in the operating position, they are not in electrical contact with one
25 another.
   [0035] The "relay" function performed by the data transmission module makes it
   possible to broaden the scope for distribution of physical data in relation to the use
   and behaviour of the tyres. For example, centralizing the data makes it possible to
30 locate the tyres used across various sites.

                                             10
   [0036] Given the high level of monitoring required in order to optimize the use of
   a fleet of civil engineering tyres, obtaining assurance that the data do indeed
   correspond to the tyre identified is a considerable technical advantage.
 5 [0037] According to one advantageous embodiment, the tyre physical parameter
   data are stored in a memory of the active electronics module for measuring and
   transferring tyre physical parameters.
   [0038] In an alternative form, the tyre physical parameter data are stored in a
10 memory of a remote data server.
   [0039] Advantageously also, the system moreover comprises a remote control
   module (or "trigger") (a low-frequency one of the 125 kHz type) allowing
   commands to be sent to the active electronics module from a mobile unit or from
15 interrogation modules installed on the vehicle.
   DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   [0040] All the embodiment details are given in the description which follows,
20 supplemented by Figures 1 to 7 which are given solely by way of nonlimiting
   examples and in which:
   - Figure 1 is a perspective view of one example of a patch according to the
   invention, in which an active electronics module is placed;
   - Figure 2 is an elevation of one example of a patch according to the invention in
25 which an active electronics module is placed;
   - Figure 3 is a plan view of the patch of Figure 1;
   - Figure 4 is a perspective view of the patch of Figure 1, showing an integrated
   label;
   - Figure 5 is a perspective view of another example of patch according to the
30 invention, in which an alternative form of the active electronics module is placed;
   - Figure 6 is an elevation of the patch of Figure 5 showing the integration of a label
   into the platform of the patch;

                                            11
   - Figure 7 is a schematic depiction of one embodiment of a tyre monitoring system
   according to the invention.
 5 DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0041] Figure 1 is a schematic depiction of one embodiment of a mounting patch
   1 according to the invention, bonded permanently against an internal wall 20 of a
   tyre. The figure shows a portion of the wall 20 or internal surface of a tyre for the
10 sake of simplifying the figure. A connecting face 3 (see Figures 3 and 4), provided
   under the patch 1, acts as an adhesion interface between the patch and the
   internal surface of the tyre intended to bear the patch. The connecting face is
   advantageously substantially planar and smooth, so as to promote adhesive
   contact between the two elements that are to be assembled.
15
   [0042] The opposite side to the connecting face consists of a support face 4
   against which an active electronics module 10 can be placed. In order to hold the
   active electronics module 10 on the support face 4, a flexible fixing strip 7
   cooperates with the patch, as shown in Figure 3. In the example illustrated, the
20 fixing strip 7 is held by means of two substantially parallel straps 6 each creating
   an opening through which the fixing strip 7 is inserted. As an alternative, the straps
   6 may be joined together by a common central portion.
   [0043] Figure 2 shows the mounting of an active electronics module 10 on a
25 patch 1, with one side being held against the support face 4 of the patch and the
   other side held by means of the fixing strip 7 which goes right over the said
   electronics module 10. In the example illustrated, the fixing strip is held firmly by
   the insertion of a protruding portion of the module into openings specifically
   provided for this purpose on each side of the fixing strip 7, as can be clearly seen
30 in Figures 1 and 2.

                                               12
   [0044] In one advantageous embodiment, the ends of the flexible strip comprise
   at least two independent module securing means. The flexible strip is arranged
   removably in the base by passing under two openings in the base which are there
   for the passage of the strip. This flexible strip is advantageously a single
 5 component strip in the form of a strip of hook-and-loop fabric (Velcro strip). As an
   alternative, the flexible strip has three portions: a middle portion, made of bi-elastic
   fabric and two end portions each connected to the middle portion and made of
   hook-and-loop fabric.
10 [0045] Without departing from the scope of the invention, the patch 1, the fixing
   strip 7 and the electronics module 10 may have respective shapes and
   arrangements that differ from those illustrated in the figures.
   [0046] Figure 4 shows a passive identification label 5 provided in this example
is under the support face 4, between the straps 6 of the patch. The label 5
   advantageously comprises a memory used to store a unique identification data
   item pertaining to the tyre against which the patch is fixed. As described later on,
   the identification is advantageously assigned at the moment that the patch is fixed
   to the associated tyre. The two elements are preferably fixed together so that the
20 fixing is permanent, in order to ensure that the tyre identification remains
   associated with the same tyre throughout the life thereof.
   [0047] The passive identification label preferably comprises a radiofrequency
   identification transponder (of known type). This type of identification without an
25 inbuilt power supply offers great durability at low cost, ensuring that the
   identification of the associated product will last. It also offers good integrity and
   durability despite the very harsh environment in which civil engineering vehicle or
   agricultural vehicle tyres are used.
30 [0048] Figures 5 and 6 show an alternative form of embodiment in which the
   electronics module 10 is fixed by a platform 8 with a dovetail profile intended for
   insertion into one of the faces of the electronics module in which face a

                                              13
   corresponding dovetail profile is provided. The two complementing elements are
   fixed together by sliding the electronics module 10 axially along the platform 8, as
   shown for example in Figure 5. In this alternative form of embodiment, the passive
   identification label 5 is provided on the upper face of the platform 8. As an
 5 alternative, the label is integrated within the platform. These figures also show an
   example of an electronics module having a profile or configuration differing from
   the example of Figures 1 to 4.
   [0049] The active electronics module 10, whatever its external configuration,
10 comprises a reader of the tyre identification which is specifically designed to
   receive identification data coming from a passive identification label 5 integrated
   into a patch 1.
   [0050] Because the RFID reading of a passive electronic label of the tyre
15 consumes a great deal of energy at the reader, it is advantageous to reduce the
   number of label readings in order to extend the life of the battery of the active
   electronics module. For example, a number of between 5 and 15, and preferably
   of around 10 reading operations is enough to ensure the functions of the system
   while at the same time ensuring that the reader battery will have sufficient battery
20 life.
   [0051] Furthermore, according to the invention, when considering that applying
   an active electronics module 10 of a mounting patch 1 requires external
   manipulation, and therefore the removal of the tyre, one of the solutions for
25 keeping the number of readings down to the lowest possible number is to take
   label readings when the pressure sensor of the active electronics module detects
   a pressure substantially equal to 0 bar, signifying that the tyre and the sensor may
   potentially have become detached from one another as a result of a removal of the
   tyre. The reading of the label data is therefore taken after the tyre has been
30 refitted, when the pressure detector measures a pressure value substantially
   corresponding to the service pressure, signifying that the tyre is correctly fitted and
   ready for use.

                                              14
   [0052] Figure 7 is a schematic depiction of one exemplary embodiment of a tyre
   monitoring system for a vehicle of civil engineering type such as transport vehicles
   for mines. The system comprises an active electronics module 10 for taking
 5 measurements of the physical parameters of the tyres and for sending the
   gathered data to a monitoring module 20.
   [0053] The active electronics module 10 comprises a pressure sensor 11, a
   power supply 12 and a data transmission module 13 for transmitting the data to
10 the monitoring module 20. It also comprises an RFID reading module 14 designed
   to activate the passive identification label 5 of the tyre. Because this passive
   identification label 5 is integrated into the patch that is used to mount the active
   electronics module 10, the RFID reading module 14 is thus advantageously
   situated in the immediate vicinity of the label it is to interrogate. The operation of
is reading the data from the label 5 is thus far more reliable. The electrical power
   consumption required is optimized. The risks of reading error are practically
   eliminated.
   [0054] The active electronics module advantageously comprises other sensors
20 making it possible to measure other parameters such as the temperature,
   humidity, the number of revolutions performed, etc.
   [0055] The monitoring module 20 comprises a data receiving module 22
   designed to receive data coming from one or more active electronic modules 10. A
25 database 21 of tyre parameters allows the data of use in performing active,
   preventive and statistical tyre monitoring to be stored.

                                           15
                                        CLAIMS
1.      Rubber patch (1) for mounting an active electronic component (10)
comprising a base (2) with a substantially planar connecting face (3) intended to
be fixed to the internal surface of a tyre and an opposite support face (4) able to
act as a support for the said active electronic component (10), characterized in
that it comprises a passive label (5) for identifying the corresponding tyre, which is
provided with a memory capable of storing a unique identification data item
pertaining to this tyre, the said passive label (5) being integrated into the said
patch (1), between the connecting face (3) and the support face (4).
2.      Rubber patch according to Claim 1, in which the base (2) comprises at least
one strap (6) affording two openings opposite one another so that a fixing strip (7)
for fixing the said active electronic component (10) can pass and in which patch
the said identification component (5) is substantially aligned with the intended
location of the fixing strip.
3.      Rubber patch according to Claim 1, in which the said support face (4)
comprises a       platform    (8) of a geometry designed to cooperate with           a
corresponding geometry of the said active electronic component (10) so as to fix
the said active electronic component.
4.      Rubber patch according to Claim 3, in which the said platform (7) is in the
shape of a dovetail.
5.      Rubber patch according to one of Claims 1 to 4, in which the said passive
identification label (5) comprises a radiofrequency identification transponder of
RFID type.
6.      Tyre comprising, fixed to its internal surface (20), a patch (1) for mounting
an active electronic component (10), the said patch (1) comprising a base (2) with
a substantially planar connecting face (3) fixed to the surface of the said tyre and a

                                           16
support face (4) able to act as a support for the said active electronic component,
characterized in that the said rubber patch comprises a passive label (5) for
identifying the tyre comprising, written within a memory, a unique identification
data item pertaining to the tyre to which the patch is fixed, the said passive label
(5) being integrated into the said patch (1) between the connecting face (3) and
the support face (4).
7.       Tyre according to Claim 6, in which the said identification label (5)
comprises a passive radiofrequency identification transponder of RFID type,
provided with antennas.
8.       Tyre according to either one of Claims 6 and 7, such that it is suited to
being fitted to civil engineering vehicles or agricultural vehicles.
9.   Tyre monitoring system for a vehicle or fleet of vehicles, comprising:
-        an active electronics module (10) for measuring and transferring physical
tyre parameters, comprising:
      i) a pressure sensor (11);
      ii) a power supply (12);
      iii) a data transmission module (13) allowing the physical data received from
      the sensor and from the identification label of the patch to be transmitted to a
      remote receiver;
-        a monitoring module (20) able to receive from the active electronics module
(10) for measuring and transferring physical tyre parameters, physical data
pertaining to the condition or behaviour of the tyre;
-        a rubber patch (1) for mounting an active electronics module (10)
comprising a base (2) with a substantially planar connecting face (3) intended to
be fixed to the internal surface of a tyre and an opposite support face able to act
as a support for the said active electronics module (10), characterized in that it
comprises, arranged between the said two faces (3, 4), a passive label (5) for
identifying the corresponding tyre, in that the active electronics module (10) also
comprises a reader (14) of the tyre identifier capable of receiving the identification
data from the patch to which it is fixed, and in that the said active electronics

                                           17
module (10) is designed to take RFID readings from the passive label (5) of the
patch after detecting a drop in tyre pressure down to substantially zero bar
followed by a rise in pressure value up to a value substantially corresponding to
the service pressure of the tyre.
10.    Tyre monitoring system according to Claim 9, in which the passive label (5)
is integrated into the said patch (1) between the connecting face (3) and the
support face (4).
11. Tyre monitoring system according to one of Claims 9 and 10, in which when
the patch (1) and the electronics module (10) are mounted in the operating
position, they are without electrical contact with one another.
12. Tyre monitoring system according to one of Claims 9 to 11, in which the tyre
physical parameter data are stored in a memory of the active electronics module
for measuring and transferring tyre physical parameters.
13. Tyre monitoring system according to one of Claims 9 to 11, in which the tyre
physical parameter data are stored in a memory (21) of a remote data server (20).
14. Tyre monitoring system according to one of Claims 9 to 13, moreover
comprising a remote control module allowing commands to be sent to the active
electronics module from a mobile unit or from interrogation modules installed on
the vehicle.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
