Abstract
A method of sharing an image item, particularly an image item associated with a
funeral service, the method comprising obtaining and uploading an image item to a
networked service system, obtaining guest information, including a guest's mobile
phone number or email address by way of a computing device, collating the guest
information, and then sending to each guest in the guest said a message comprising
access information for use by the guest to access the image item on the networked
service system.
                                           9

               1/3
     4-
00
    E      o..
   w               C
        _0         r-0
   E
   0
   u

System and method for distribution of images
Field of the invention.
The present invention relates to funeral services generally, in particular to a electronic
guest registry for use in connection with funeral services.
Background.
Typically when guests attend a funeral service such as a wake for other form of
memorial service the guests and family are at one time, typically at the time of entry,
presented with the opportunity to sign a funeral Registry as a record to family
members of those that attended at the time.
During a typical funeral service it is common for there to be a display of photos or
other electronic information associated with the deceased. This may also include the
use of photos or other electronic media provided as part of a slideshow or presentation
during the course of the funeral service. It is quite often the case that guests and
related family members view such photos of the deceased with some fond memories
and have some desire to obtain those photos for their own future use so that they can
be reminded of the deceased.
This poses a problem in the context of the photos being viewed relatively quickly on a
display screen during the funeral service were the guests and family members may
otherwise be preoccupied with their own emotions and thoughts regarding the
deceased and thus me only catch a glimpse of the relevant material. At the conclusion
of the funeral service it can be difficult for guests/family members to make enquiries
about such photos from an emotional perspective as well as potentially forgetting
which particular photo they were interested in obtaining or inadvertently overlooking
photos that may be of interest to them.
A funeral service can be a very sensitive and emotional period of time for those who
are experiencing the loss of a loved one and so it may be uncomfortable for guests
                                              1

and other family members to make such requests and thus they may never actually be
able to view those particular photos or representations again.
Summary of the invention
In one form of the invention there is provided a method of sharing an image item, the
method comprising obtaining and uploading an image item to a networked service
system, obtaining guest information, including a guest's mobile phone number or
email address by way of a computing device, collating the guest information,
including the guests mobile phone number or email address in a guest set, then
sending to each guest in the guest said a message comprising access information for
use by the guest to access the image item on the networked service system.
In a further form of the invention, there is a method of sharing an image item
comprising obtaining and uploading an image item to a networked service system,
obtaining guest information, which can include a guest's mobile phone number and/or
email address via a computer interface, collating Guest information into a guest set of
information and then forwarding the uploaded image item from the network service
system to the guests mobile phone number and or email address by the computer
device.
In preference, the computer device is a tablet computer.
In preference, the guest information is obtained by the guests importing there mobile
phone number and/or email address into the tablet device directly.
In preference, the networked service system includes a remote server.
In preference, the guest information includes comment data.
In preference, the networked service system is a virtual machine.
In preference, the guest information is cross checked against a predefined family set.
                                             2

In preference, the family set is authenticated by an administrator.
In preference, an image item may be designated to be accessible by the guest set and
or family set. In this way it is possible to disseminate certain images to guests and or
family, which may be immediate family only as required.
In preference, the guest information can include address information of the guest.
In preference, the networked service is Wi-Fi enabled.
In preference, the computer device is configured to receive image input information.
This then allows the option of a guest or family member leaving and image file, such
as a picture or video message, 4 retrieval and viewing by family members after the
funeral service.
In preference, the computer device is a hand-held mobile computing device of the
guest or family members, such as a smart phone.
Brief description of the drawings
By way of example/illustration only, an embodiment of the invention is described
with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
Figure 1 is a block diagram of a system for a method of sharing image item for
funeral services;
Figure 2 is a block diagram showing representative information fields associated with
the funeral guestbook screen visible on the computer device;
Figure 3 is a block diagram showing fields associated with the particular funeral
service and creation/forwarding of links and or images 2 guests.
Description of the invention
                                              3

With reference to figure 1, the system 10 is provided so as to enable guests of the
funeral service, including family members, to input there name, address, mobile
phone number and or email along with an appropriate bereavement message if
required by the computing device 20, which can be located at the appropriate position
of the way, or Memorial service, similar to where a traditional funeral registry book
may be utilised. The computer device 20 can be a computer terminal or preferably a
tablet device which takes up minimal room and allows for customisation of
appropriate display screens in accordance with the requirements of the family
members and funeral directors.
The computer device 20 is connected to a network service system 30, either by way of
wireless connection (Wi-Fi) or networked directly with Ethernet cable. Guest data
imported into the computer device 20 is then transferred through the network service
system 30 and recorded on a server 40, which may exist locally on site or
alternatively be a virtual machine or cloud storage, which ever is appropriate. A
remote user 50 is connected to the server 40 again by the network service system 30
and the remote user can be someone with administrative privileges enabling them to
define particular details associated with the funeral event, such as, but not limited to,
information regarding the deceased, time and date information, least of associated
family members of the deceased, and other associated fields deemed to be relevant to
the particular circumstances.
The funeral guest book interface 60, which resides on the computer device 20 then
has a number of data fields 65 associated with it, for example, the deceased data fields
70 and the guest data fields 75. The guest data fields 75 then allow a guest via the
funeral guestbook page 60 to enter their guest data such as their name, mobile
number, email address and appropriate bereavement message if appropriate. Guests of
course have the option not to include information that they wish to keep private, for
example their mobile number and email address. The guest data is then relayed via the
network service system 32 the server 40 and tabulated as required.
If previously selected by the remote at user 50, the names of the guests may be
correlated against a table of family data so as to distinguish between family guests
and nonfamily guests. The funeral guestbook page 60 may also be accessible on a
                                             4

computing device 20 which is a uses smart phone, enabling guests at the funeral
service to add additional information, such as a bereavement message, during or after
the service. Alternatively, access to the funeral guest book page 60 via the smart
phone may also allow for entry of guest information by a user who was unable to
attend the funeral service, yet still wished to pass on their condolences and comments
to the other family members. Access to this particular field would be controlled by the
remote administrative user 50 and as appropriate, links (in the form of a URL) could
be provided to the family members to provide to those unable to attend the funeral
service, or alternatively, such information may be included in any personalised
funeral notification. In such instances, it may also be appropriate to have a remote
user personally check the contents of any remote inputting of information by guests
(message quarantine) prior to publication.
Prior to any funeral service typically an electronic slideshow of images supplied by
family members is created and those images/electronic information 80 can also be
separately uploaded into the image upload field 100 which is associated with the
deceased data fields 70. The image upload 100 can also include any other associated
electronic data, such as, but not restricted to, pictures, videos and audio. The images
uploaded 100 can also include information not included in the slideshow at the
bereavement service and furthermore the images/electronic data may be itemised as
being available to non-family guests and or family guests so that family guests have
access to an increased number of images/electronic data.
At the completion of the image upload 100, which is carried out on the server 40, a
link, or group of links, to each of the individual images as/electronic data uploaded
into 100 is created in the form of either a direct link 110, such as a URL (uniform
resource location) or hyperlink, which would then be forwarded 115 to the guests,
either to their mobile phone or email address previously provided as part of the guest
data field 75. When the guest receives the forwarded link they can then click on the
link and be taken to the appropriate place where the image/electronic data is being
hosted for viewing, such as a web page on the server 40 or and associated server.
Alternatively, the image/electronic data uploaded at 100 can be sent directly (pushed)
 120 to the guests at the appropriate file size/resolution for viewing by the guest on
                                              5

their mobile device or directly to their email application. In some instances, a
predefined template page, that may be customised by an administrator, can be sent to
each of the guests which contains URL/hyperlinks to the appropriate location of the
uploaded images/electronic information 100. Individually customising templates then
also provides a unique way of delivering such information to the guest list without
excessive data use.
As part of the guest data fields 75 a selection box may be included for each of the
guest to optionally check to authorise the forwarding of the links or images/electronic
data from the method 100, thus providing a form of positive acknowledgement to the
service provider that they agreed to receive such information/message.
The present invention also extends to a system/apparatus that incorporates the above
methodology so as to enable the provision of a customised display or application that
may be readily installed and operated by the funeral service provider. This can be
implemented by way of an electronic kiosk or electronic guest book as part of the
system or apparatus of implementing that mentioned method.
As will now be clear, the present invention provides a unique and specialised
approach to the gathering and recording of guest information, from both nonfamily
guests and family guests, and so allows for each of the guests to optionally receive
electronic information associated with the funeral service, such as predefined images
or other electronic information that may be displayed during the funeral service for
them to view at a later stage.
                                             6

Claims
 1.     A method of sharing an image item, the method comprising obtaining and
uploading an image item to a networked service system, obtaining guest information,
including a guest's mobile phone number or email address by way of a computing
device, collating the guest information, including the guests mobile phone number or
email address in a guest set, then sending to each guest in the guest said a message
comprising access information for use by the guest to access the image item on the
networked service system.
2.      A method of sharing an image item comprising obtaining and uploading an
image item to a networked service system, obtaining guest information, which can
include a guest's mobile phone number and/or email address via a computer interface,
collating Guest information into a guest set of information and then forwarding the
uploaded image item from the network service system to the guests mobile phone
number and or email address by the computer device.
3.       The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the computer device is a
tablet computer.
4.      The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the guest information is
obtained by the guests importing there mobile phone number and/or email address
into the tablet device directly.
5.      The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the networked service
system includes a remote server.
6.      The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the guest information
includes comment data.
7.      The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the networked service
system is a virtual machine.
                                            7

8.       The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the guest information is
cross checked against a predefined family set.
9.       The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the family set is
authenticated by an administrator.
 10.     The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the guest information can
include address information of the guest.
 11.     The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the networked service is
Wi-Fi enabled.
 12.     The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the computer device is
configured to receive image input information. This then allows the option of a guest
or family member leaving and image file, such as a picture or video message, 4
retrieval and viewing by family members after the funeral service.
 13.     The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the computer device is a
hand-held mobile computing device of the guest or family members, such as a smart
phone.
 14.     A kiosk or electronic guest book for use at a funeral service utilizing the
method of any of the above claims.
                                           8

                                           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                                              85)
               65)                            75)
                           -'&."(/)0'(+,!')
!"#$%&'()*'+,!')                                        0'(+'()
                               010&'#)
                                                                      1/3
                            ('#"&')%0'()
         45)
                     95)
                              2,3%(')4)

                                                          <removed-apn>          <removed-date>
                                             F9)                          G5)
                 F5)
                                                              ='!':0'*)*:&:)
                               =:&:)>';*0)
                                                                  >';*0)
2%-'(:;)3%'0&)
   <""/)                                                     G9)
                                   E%'0&)*:&:)>';*0)
  !"#$%&'()*&     +($%&'()*&   ,-."/*&'-0&      1)("/&             ,*$$(2*&
                                                                                            2/3
  ?"@-)           A(".-)       999B467B467)     ?"@-C#:,;D!"#)
                                              2,3%(')6)

                                                         <removed-apn>             <removed-date>
                                                                 445)                         449)
                              455)
            G5)                                                                 2"(.:(*)J$%0@K);,-/)
                                                         !(':&');,-/)
                                                                                    &")3%'0&0)
='!':0'*)*:&:)
                        H#:3')%$;":*)
    >';*0)
                                                      2"(.:(*)J$%0@K)
                                                     ,#:3'0)&")3%'0&0)
                                                                         465)                          3/3
                  ,#:3'0I)';'!&("-,!)*:&:)
                  L5)
                                             2,3%(')6)

