5 Abstract
          A method and system for generating an ionized fluid, injecting the ionized fluid into
  fissures in a subterranean formation, pressurizing the ionized fluid, whereby the crystalline
  structure of a portion of the shale deposits located at the fissures are changed into suspended
  particles, whereby the depressurization of the ionized fluid forces the suspended particles out of
0 the fissures, increasing the flow of hydrocarbons from those fissures.

                                                    1
                            Use of Ionized Fluid in Hydraulic Fracturing
   Cross-Reference to Related Applications
            This application has been divided out of Australian patent application 2014388273
 5 (AU 2014388273). In the description in this specification reference may be made to subject
   matter which is not within the scope of the appended claims. That subject matter should be
   readily identifiable by a person skilled in the art and may assist in putting into practice the
   invention as defined in the presently appended claims.
            AU 2014388273 is the national phase entry in Australia of PCT international
10 application PCT/US2014/032238 (published as WO 2015/147873 Al). The full disclosure of
   WO 2015/147873 Al is incorporated herein by reference.
   Background of the Invention
            The hydraulic fracturing of oil wells was started in the late Nineteen Forties as a
15 means of oil well stimulation when trying to extend the economic life of a depleting oil well.
   Most oil wells, at that time, were driven vertically. The placement of shaped explosive
   charges, in thin wall casings, was limited to these explosive charges being placed in
   predetermined, hydrocarbon pay zones, and mostly in sand formations. The shaped explosive
   charges were ignited to create fissures or channels in these zones. A mixture of pressurized
20 water and sand is pumped into the wellbore as a means of well stimulation.
            This practice of well stimulation continues in vertically driven wells to this day. It
   wasn't until Mitchell Energy, in the mid- nineteen nineties utilized two newly developed
   technologies, changed the way unconventional, insitu hydrocarbon shale could be produced
   economically. The first new technology utilized was the development of steerable and
25 controllable drilling techniques that could change the direction of a drill bit going in a vertical
   direction and rotating it into a horizontal direction. This rotation could be accomplished with
   a reasonably short bending radius and the drill bit could then continue to drill horizontally for
   a considerable distance into the shale formation.
            The second technology that was needed involved the development of higher pressure
30 fracturing     pumps that were capable of achieving water pressures in the range of nine
   thousand to ten thousand pounds per square inch range at the surface. The answer was the
   development of fracturing pumps that could achieve these pressure levels with positive
   10170440_1doex

                                                     2
   displacements. Both technologies are essential for the economic extraction of hydrocarbon
   gases and liquids in hard and soft shale formations. Companies today are producing gaseous
   and liquid hydrocarbons and use mostly        chemical products to control the growth of micro
   organisms. These could eventually migrate into potable water aquifers.
 5          Currently, it is common practice to kill micro-organisms that are in the water mixture,
   either initially or insitu, by chemical or other types of biocides, so that the gaseous and liquid
   hydrocarbons that are trapped in the oil shale's matrix formation can flow freely into the
   channels and fissures vacated by the flow-back water mixture. Also, the channels created by
   the fracturing process must be kept open by the proppants that are initially carried into the
10 fissures in the fracture zones by the injected water mixture. If the micro-organisms are not
   killed they will multiply, rapidly; and, if they remain in the fissures, they will grow and
   reduce or entirely block the flow hydrocarbons from these fissures. Another significant micro
   organism type problem is the possible presence of a strain of microbes that have an affinity
   for seeking out and digesting any free sulfur or sulfur bearing compounds and producing
15 hydrogen sulfides that must be removed from any product gas stream because it is a highly
   dangerous and carcinogenic material. All these types of micro-organisms must be destroyed if
   this type of problem is to be avoided.
            In addition to the possibility of micro-organisms multiplying and blocking the flow of
   hydrocarbon product, the presence of dissolved solids in the water solution can also be a
20 problem in the injected water mixture. They can deposit themselves as scale or encrustations
   in the same flow channels and fissures. These encrustations, if allowed to be deposited in
   these channels, will also reduce or block the flow of hydrocarbons to the surface. In order to
   avoid this condition, attempts are made in current industry practice to have the dissolved
   solids coalesce and attach themselves to the suspended or other colloidal particles present in
25 the water mixture to be removed before injection in the well; however, those efforts are only
   partly effective. See, e.g. Denny, Dennis. (2012 March). Fracturing-Fluid Effects on Shale
   and Proppant Embedment. JPT. pp. 59-61. Kealser, Vic. (2012 April). Real-Time Field
   Monitoring to Optimize Microbe Control. JPT. pp. 30, 32-33. Lowry, Jeff, et al. (2011
   December). Haynesville trial well applies environmentally focused shale technologies. World
30 Oil. pp. 39-40, 42. Rassenfoss, Stephen. (2012 April). Companies Strive to Better Understand
   Shale Wells. JPT. pp. 44-48. Ditoro, Lori K. (2011). The Haynesville Shale. Upstream
   10170440_1doex

                                                      3
   PumpingSolutions. pp. 31-33. Walser, Doug. (2011). Hydraulic Fracturing in the Haynesville
   Shale: What's Different? Upstream Pumping Solutions. pp. 34-36. Denney, Dennis. (2012
   March).     Stimulation Influence on Production in the Haynesville           Shale: A Playwide
   Examination. JPT. pp. 62-66. Denney, Dennis. (2011 January). Technology Applications.
 5 JPT. pp. 20, 22, 26. All of the above are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
            In recent years, the oil industry has tried to develop a number of ways to address these
   concerns. The use of ultra violet light in conjunction with reduced amounts of chemical
   biocide has proven to be only partially effective in killing water borne micro-organisms. This
   is also true when also trying to use ultra-high frequency sound waves to kill micro-organisms.
10 Both these systems, however, lack the intensity and strength to effectively kill all of the
   water-borne micro-organisms with only one weak short time residence exposure and with
   virtually no residual effectiveness. Both systems need some chemical biocides to effectively
   kill all the water borne micro-organisms that are in water. Also, some companies use low
   frequency or low-strength electro-magnetic wave generators as biocide/coalescers; however,
15 these too have proven to be only marginally effective.
            An example of the present invention seeks to economically address and satisfactorily
   resolve some of the major environmental concerns that are of industry-wide importance.
   Alternatively or additionally, an example of the present invention seeks to eliminate the need
   for brine disposal wells, eliminate the use of toxic chemicals as biocides for micro-organism
20 destruction, or for scale prevention, and the recovery of all flow-back or produced water for
   reuse    in    subsequent   hydraulic    fracturing   operations.  Examples   of the   invention
   advantageously provide technically sound and economically viable solutions to many of the
   public safety issues that have concerned the industry in hydraulic fracturing.
            Alternatively or additionally, an example of the present invention seeks to at least
25 provide the public with a useful choice.
            In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
   external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
   providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
   otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission that
30 such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part
   of the common general knowledge in the art.
   10170440_1doex

                                                    4
   Summary of Examples of the Invention
            The present invention provides a system to enhance the recovery of hydrocarbons
   from a subterranean formation comprising hydrocarbon bearing shale comprising calcite
   having fissures therein, for use at a well penetrating the formation, the system comprising:
 5 imparting positively charged ions into aqueous fluid at the well with an apparatus for treating
   liquid with electromagnetic flux powered by a source of alternating current electrical power
   wherein a set of half cycles of positive voltage alternate with a set of half cycles of negative
   voltage and a ringing current switching circuit operates at a frequency exposing the fluid to
   electromagnetic fields of influence at a frequency higher than eighty kilohertz (80 k-Hz);
10 introducing the fluid comprising positively charged ions into at least some of the fissures;
   allowing said ions to transform some calcite crystals comprising the shale along the fissures
   into aragonite crystals such that some aragonite crystals become suspended in the fluid;
   removing some of the fluid suspending the aragonite crystals from the formation; separating
   out at the well aqueous fluid from the aragonite crystals and any other particulate materials
15 and hydrocarbons in said removed fluid from the formation; further imparting positively
   charged ions into said separated aqueous fluid at the well with the apparatus for treating liquid
   with electromagnetic flux; introducing again fluid comprising positively charged ions into at
   least some of the fissures; allowing said ions to transform some calcite crystals comprising the
   shale along the fissures into aragonite crystals such that some aragonite crystals become
20 suspended in the fluid; and again removing some of the fluid suspending aragonite crystals
   from the formation; wherein each removal of aragonite crystals opens or expands the fissures
   and improves the permeability of the formation allowing an enhanced quantity and rate of
   hydrocarbon production from the formation; and wherein the fluid remaining in the formation
   continues to transform some further calcite crystals comprising the shale along the fissures
25 into aragonite crystals such that more aragonite becomes suspended in the fluid, and thereafter
   some of said remaining fluid suspending the aragonite is removed from the formation thereby
   further improving or sustaining the permeability of the fonration.
            The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims means 'consisting at
   least in part of'. When interpreting statements in this specification and claims which include
30 the term 'comprising', other features besides the features prefaced by this term in each
   10170440_1doex

                                                   5
   statement can also be present. Related terms such as 'comprise' and 'comprised' are to be
   interpreted in similar manner.
            In an embodiment, the apparatus for treating liquid with electromagnetic flux exposes
   the aqueous liquid to electromagnetic fields of influence at a full wave in the frequency range
 5 of eighty kilohertz (80 kHz) to three hundred and sixty kilohertz (360 kHz).
            In an embodiment, at least some of the fissures were created by fracturing the
   formation and the aqueous fluid was used in the fracturing.
            In an embodiment, the electromagnetic field of influence is pulsed at a full wave of up
   to three hundred and sixty times per second.
10          In an embodiment, the electromagnetic field of influence is pulsed at a half wave of up
   to one hundred eighty kHz.
            Advantages of various examples of the present invention include the need for less (or
   no) disposal of brine water, since substantially all dissolved salts are coalesced and converted
   into suspended particles that are separated and incorporated with recovered proppant and fines
15 for inclusion in a feed material for fusion by pyrolysis in a rotary kiln. Similarly, examples of
   the invention eliminate the need for chemical biocides since the high intensity, variable, ultra
   high frequency electromagnetic wave generator kills the micro-organisms that are present in
   water before water is injected into the formation. The electromagnetic wave also prevents the
   formation of scale encrustations; therefore, there is no need to add scale inhibitors to the
20 fracturing water mixture. As a result, substantially all the flow-back water from a fracturing
   operation is reused with all the remaining solid materials being recycled and reconstituted into
   appropriately-constituted and properly sized proppants for subsequent use in fracturing
   operations. In addition, since volatile organic compounds are burned and vaporized, there is
   no need for any sludge or other types of solid waste disposal facilities.
25          According to one aspect of the invention, a system for use in well fracturing
   operations is provided, comprising: a first separator including a slurry intake and a slurry
   output with a first water content; a second separator having a slurry input, positioned to
   receive slurry from the slurry output of the first separator, and a slurry output with a second,
   lower water content; a kiln positioned to receive the slurry output of the second separator and
30 having an output; a quench positioned to receive slag from the output of the kiln; a crusher
   positioned to receive quenched slag from the quench; a mill positioned to receive crushed
   10170440_1doex

                                                    6
   material from the crusher; a first screen positioned to receive milled material from the mill,
   the size of the screen wherein the size of the first screen determines the upper boundary of the
   proppant size; and a second screen positioned to receive material passed by the first screen,
   wherein the size of the second screen determines the lower boundary of the proppant size. In
 5 at least one example, the system further comprises a proppant storage silo positioned to
   receive proppant from between the first and the second screens. In a further example, the
   system also includes a blender positioned to receive proppant from the silo.           In a more
   specific example, the first separator includes a water output and the system further includes: a
   water storage tank positioned to receive water from the first separator, a biocide coalescer
10 positioned to receive water from the water storage tank, the coalescer having an output
   feeding the blender, and at least one fracture pump receiving at least proppant and water from
   the blender, wherein the fracturing pump produces flow in water for well fracturing
   operations.
            According to a further example of the invention, a method is provided for creating a
15 proppant of a specific size from a slurry extracted from a fractured hydrocarbon well, the
   method comprising: separating water from the slurry, resulting in a slurry stream and a liquid
   stream; mixing the slurry stream with particulate, resulting in a feed material; fusing proppant
   material in the feed material; quenching the fused proppant material; breaking the fused
   proppant material; sizing the broken material for the specific size; and mixing broken material
20 that is not of the specific size with the feed material. In some examples of the invention, the
   method further comprises extracting the slurry from the flow of produced fluid from a
   hydrocarbon well, wherein the produced fluid includes water and a slurry, wherein the
   separating of the slurry results in at least two streams, wherein one of the at least two streams
   comprises a substantially liquid stream of water and another of the at least two streams
25 comprises the slurry. Examples of acceptable means for separating the slurry from a flow of
   produced fluid from a hydrocarbon well include a conventional three-phase separator.
            In at least one example, the mixing comprises: injecting the solid stream into a kiln;
   and injecting particulate into the kiln, wherein the injection of the particulate changes the
   viscosity of a slagging material wherein the slagging material comprises the solid stream and
30 the injected particulate. In a further example, the injecting particulate into the kiln is
   dependent upon the viscosity of the slagging material in the kiln wherein the injecting of the
   10170440_1doex

                                                    7
   particulate is increased when the slagging material is too viscous for even flow in the kiln. In
   some examples, the injecting of the particulate is decreased when the slagging material
   viscosity is so low that the flow rate through the kiln is too fast for fusing of proppant
   material.
 5          In a further example, the quenching comprises spraying the fused proppant material
   with the liquid stream and the breaking comprises: crushing the quenched proppant material
   and grinding the crushed proppant material.
            In still another example the sizing comprises screening and/or weight-separating.
            In some examples, the fusing comprises heating the slagging material wherein volatile
10 components in the slagging material are released in a gas phase and proppant material in the
   slagging material is fused. In some such examples, the rate of flow of the fused material
   outputting a kiln is measured, and the heating in the kiln is adjusted, based on the measuring.
            In yet another example, the method further includes separating the slurry from a flow
   of produced fluid from a hydrocarbon well, wherein the produced fluid includes water and
15 solids, wherein said separating the slurry results in at least two streams, and wherein one of
   the at least two streams comprises a substantially liquid stream of water and another of the at
   least two streams comprises the slurry. In at least one such example, the method also includes
   imparting an electromagnetic pulse to the substantially liquid stream of water, wherein
   proppant is mixed with the substantially liquid stream of water before or after the imparting.
20          According to a further aspect of the of the invention, a system is provided for creating
   a range of proppant of specific sizes from a slurry extracted from a fractured hydrocarbon
   well, the system comprising: means for separating water from the slurry, resulting in a slurry
   stream and a liquid stream; means for mixing the slurry stream with particulate, resulting in a
   feed material; means for fusing proppant material in the feed material; means for quenching
25 the fused proppant material; means for breaking the fused proppant material; means for sizing
   the broken material for the specific size; and means for mixing broken material that is not of
   the specific size with the feed material. In at least one example, the means for mixing broken
   material that is not of the specific size comprises the means for fusing.
            An example of the means for separating includes at two-phase separation tank with a
30 funnel at a lower end with a conduit leading to the input to an auger. A two-phase separation
   tank uses the principle of gravity-precipitating unit (with or without baffles). An alternative to
   10170440_1doex

                                                     8
   a gravity-precipitation unit is a pressurized tank from a hydrocone system forcing slurry to a
   feed-hopper with an auger.
            In a further example, the means for mixing the slurry stream with particulate
   comprises: means for injecting the slurry stream into a kiln; and means for injecting
 5 particulate into the kiln, wherein the injection of the particulate changes the viscosity of a
   slagging material and wherein the slagging material comprises the slurry stream and the
   injected particulate. One example of useful a means for injecting the slurry stream into the
   kiln include: an auger from the means for separating to a kiln feed-hopper. As the auger
   advances the slurry stream toward the hopper more water comes off. Alternatives include a
10 flight conveyor belt, a bucket conveying system, and others that will occur to those of skill in
   the art. Specific examples of useful means for injecting sand into the kiln include: a bucket
   elevator conveyor with a variable drive bringing particulate (e.g. sand) from a silo where the
   specified sand resides. The variable drive allows changing of the amount of sand depending
   on the temperature measured at the exit of the kiln. The temperature is related to viscosity.
15 For example, as temperature varies around some set point of about 2200 F, feed of sand will
   be increased as temperature drops. It will be decreased as temperature rises. In a more specific
   example, no change will be made for a variation of about 5%, while, over 5%, the amount of
   variation will cause increase or decrease in an amount that is dependent on the particular kiln,
   proppant solid feed, and other conditions that will occur to those of skill in the art. Other
20 examples of means for injecting include a belt conveyor or flight conveyor and other
   equivalents that will occur to those of skill in the art.
            In a further example, the means for quenching comprises means for spraying the fused
   proppant material with the liquid stream that was separated from the slurry (e.g., with nozzles
   and/or a water wall). A further alternative for cooling the material would be air quenching. In
25 at least one example, the hot solids mixture from a kiln is deposited onto a moving, perforated
   steel conveyor belt, which is placed over a water collection pan. Water is applied to the
   mixture while on the belt.
            In still a further example, the means for breaking comprises: means for crushing the
   quenched proppant material; and means for grinding the crushed proppant material. In one
30 such example, the means for crushing comprises               a crusher   having the following
   specifications: an eccentric gyratory crusher (conical) so that the crushing space can be varied
   10170440_1doex

                                                   9
   to obtain various sizes. Alternative crushers include: jaw crushers, roller crushers, ball
   crushers, and other equivalents that will occur to those of skill in the art. In some examples,
   the crusher reduces a solidified, agglomerated mixture into pieces having a size range of about
   % inch to about % inch.
 5          In some examples, the means for grinding comprises a grinder of the following type: a
   rod mill, a ball mill, an autogenous mill, bowl mill, and other equivalents that will occur to
   those of skill in the art. In at least some such examples, crushed material is moved by
   conveyor and discharged into a mixing/grinding unit where the materials are reduced in size;
   in at least one example, 98-99% of the material passes through a #30 sleeve opening of about
10 590 microns, and the passes material is similar in size and strength to sharp, fine sand.
            In some examples, the means for sizing comprises a screener having at least one
   screen. An example of a screener that is acceptable is a vibrating screen. If the material passes
   the screen, it is classified as "specification size." If it is too small, it drops out to an
   undersized feed that is fed back to the input of the hopper of the kiln. If it is too large, it is
15 separated into an oversized feed that is provided to the hopper at the input of the kiln. In at
   least one example, the over and undersized streams are combined before they are injected into
   the kiln. Other acceptable means for sizing includes fixed screens, rotating screens, and means
   for weight-separating (e.g., a cyclone through which broken material passes and/or specific
   gravity separation in liquid solution). Examples of acceptable cyclones will occur to those of
20 skill in the art. Another acceptable means for separating includes specific gravity separation in
   liquid solution. Acceptable separation systems of that type will occur to those of skill in the
   art.
            According to a further example, the means for fusing comprises means for heating the
   slagging material wherein volatile components in the slagging material are released in a gas
25 phase and proppant material in the slagging material is fused. One example of such a means
   for heating the slagging material includes a slagging rotary kiln, an inclined rotary kiln, and a
   horizontal kiln with both direct and indirect firing capabilities. Alternative means for fusing
   proppant material in the feed material include: a non-slagging kiln, a vertical furnace (e.g. a
   Hershoff furnace, a Pacific, multi-hearth, vertical furnace), a horizontal traveling grate
30 sintering furnace, and other equivalents that will occur to those of skill in the art. In some
   examples, the kiln operation involves feeding the slurry materials into the kiln and adding
   10170440_1doex

                                                   10
   proppant to start the process of fusing the slurry material and proppant together into a flowing
   agglomerate material mass. As the mixture moves down to the kiln discharge port, the
   temperature of the mixture increases due to the heat being generated by the kiln's burner. At
   the same time, the viscosity of the mixture decreases as the temperature increases. During this
 5 same period of time, the organic materials which are carried in the mixture are burned,
   vaporized, and discharged into a vent stack, leaving a flowing solids material mixture. The
   viscosity of this flowing mixture is adjusted by either increasing or decreasing the heat
   released by the kiln's burner, or by adding more or less proppant to the mixture, or both.
            Some examples of the invention also include means for measuring the rate of flow of
10 the fused material outputting the kiln. Examples of means for measuring the flow of the fused
   material outputting the kiln includes a temperature sensor providing a signal. Other equivalent
   means will occur to those of skill in the art. A means for adjusting the heating in the kiln
   based on the measuring is provided in still other embodiments. Examples of means for
   adjusting the heating in the kiln based on the measuring include: changing the flow of
15 proppant input into the kiln, based on the temperature measurement, and changing the rate of
   fuel flow to the kiln burner to increase or decrease the amount of heat being released in the
   kiln.
            As mentioned above, the separating of the slurry from the flow from a well results in
   at least two streams, wherein one of the at least two streams comprises a substantially liquid
20 stream of water. And, in a still more detailed example, a means for imparting an
   electromagnetic pulse to the substantially liquid stream of water is provided. At least one
   example of a means for imparting an electromagnetic pulse to the substantially liquid stream
   of water is disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 6,063,267, incorporated herein by reference for all
   purposes. Alternatives to the device described in that patent for use in various examples of the
25 present invention include: traditional biocide/coalescers (chemical, electrical, and mechanical)
   as will occur to those of skill in the art.
            In at least one example, the specific pulse imparted has the following characteristics:
   variable, ultra-high frequencies in the range of between about 10 and 80 kHz. Other pulses
   having sufficient frequency to kill the micro-organisms present in water and to cause
30 dissolved solids to coalesce will occur to those of skill in the art and may depend on the
   10170440_1doex

                                                     11
   specific properties of the water at a particular well. The pulse will generally rupture the cells
   of the micro-organisms.
       In still a further example of the invention, a means for mixing proppant with the
   substantially liquid stream of water is provided (for mixing either before or after the
 5 imparting). Examples of means for mixing proppant with water included a blender as will
   occur to those of skill in the art (for example, a screen or open, grated tank). In some
   examples, surface tension reducing agents are also added in the blender, as are other
   components that will occur to those of skill in the art. The mixture is then provided to a means
   of increasing the pressure of the mixture (e.g., a fracturing pump - aka "intensifier unit" - as
10 will occur to those of skill in the art) and the pressurized mixture is injected into a well.
       In still further examples, proppant is made to specific sizes from produced and/or flow
   back water, as well as other sources, using a combination of a kiln, crusher, mill, and screens,
   to produce proppant of various sizes that those of skill in the art will recognize as being
   desirable in fracturing operations. See, e.g., Mining Engineering, "Industrial Materials", pp.
15 59-61, June 2012 (www.miningengineering magazine.com), incorporated herein by reference.
   The various sizes are made by adjusting the mill and screens used.
       In still another example, a method is provided for treating hydrocarbon well fracture water
   (which includes both "flow back" and "produced" water) from a hydrocarbon well, wherein
   the method comprises: separating solids from fracture water, wherein a flow of water with
20 suspended solids results; separating the flow of water into a plurality of flows of water;
   generating positive charge in the plurality of flows of water, wherein a plurality of flows of
   positively-charged water results; comingling the plurality of flows of positively-charged water
   after said generating. In a further example, the method also comprises: monitoring an
   oil/water interface level and controlling the oil/water interface level in the separator.
25          In a more specific example, method further comprises slowing the flow rate in the
   plurality of flows of water to be less than the flow rate of the flow of water with suspended
   solids. Slowing the flow rate allows for greater residence time during the step of generating
   positive charge. That increases the amount of positive charge in the water which is considered
   to be beneficial for killing microbes in the water and for providing residual positive charge for
30 a period of time when the water has been injected into a geologic formation from which
   hydrocarbons are to be produced. The presence of positive charge in the water geologic
   10170440_1doex

                                                   12
   formation is believed to have benefits in reducing the presence of various flow-reducing
   structures in the formation.
       In a further specific example the method generating positive charge in the flows of water
   comprises treating each of the plurality of flows of water with electromagnetic flux.
 5     In still a further example, the majority of the suspended solids are less than about 100
   microns. In some such examples, substantially all the suspended solids are less than about 100
   microns. In a more limited set of examples, the majority of the suspended solids are less than
   about 10 microns. And in still a more limited set of examples, substantially all the suspended
   solids are less than about 10 microns. By reducing the size of the suspended solids, it becomes
10 possible to pass the water through devices that are practical for generating positive charge in
   the water at a reasonable cost by using, for example, stainless steel conduits when the
   suspended solids approach 100 microns and softer materials (for example, PVC) as the solids
   approach 10 microns and smaller.
       And some further examples, the separating comprise two-stage separating. In at least one
15 such example, two-stage separating comprises: passing the fracture water through a three
   phase separator, wherein a water output from the three-phase separator results, and passing
   the water output from the three-phase separator through a two-phase separator. In at least one
   such method, the three-phase separator comprises a four-material separator having at least
   four outputs including: a slurry, water having suspended solids therein, hydrocarbon liquid,
20 and hydrocarbon gas.
       According to another example of the invention, a system is provided for treating
   hydrocarbon well fracture water from a hydrocarbon well, system comprising: means for
   separating solids from fracture water, wherein a flow of water with suspended solids results;
   means for separating the flow of water into a plurality of flows of water; means for generating
25 positive charge in the plurality of flows of water, wherein a plurality of flows of positively
   charged water results; and
   means for comingling plurality of flows of positively-charged water.
            In at least one such system, the means for separating comprises a three-phase, four
   material separator. For example, and a more specific example, the means for separating
30 further comprises a second two phase separator, the two-phase separator comprising an input
   for receiving water flow from the three-phase gas oil separator, and an output for the flow of
   10170440_1doex

                                                    13
   water with suspended solids. In a further example, there is also provided: means for
   monitoring an oil/water interface level; and means for controlling the oil/water interface level
   in the first and second separator. In one such example, the means for monitoring comprises an
   oil/water interface level indicator and control valve sensor (for example, a cascade control
 5 system).
            In some examples, the means for separating the flow of water into a plurality of flows
   of water comprises a manifold having an input port to receive the flow of water with
   suspended solids and a plurality of output ports, each of which has a cross-sectional area that
   is smaller than the cross-sectional area of the input of the manifold; and wherein the sum of
10 the cross-sectional areas of the output ports is greater than the cross-sectional area of the input
   ports, whereby the flow rate exiting the manifold is less than the flow rate entering the
   manifold. In at least one example, the manifold comprises a 1:12 manifold (for example,
   having cross-sectional diameters of 4 inches in the output ports and a larger cross sectional
   diameter in the input ports). In an alternative example, the means for separating the flow of
15 water into a plurality of flows of water comprises a water truck having a plurality of
   compartments, each compartment being positioned to receive a portion of the flow of water.
            In a further example, the means for generating positive charge comprises means for
   treating each of the plurality of flows of water with electromagnetic flux. At least one such
   example, the means for treating each of the plurality of flows of water with electromagnetic
20 flux comprises: a pipe; and at least one electrical coil having an axis substantially coaxial with
   the pipe. In some such examples, the pipe consists essentially of non-conducting material. In
   some such examples, the pipe consists essentially of stainless steel. In a variety of examples,
   there is also provided a ringing current switching circuit connected to the coil. In some such
   examples, the ringing current switching circuit operates in a full-wave mode at a frequency
25 between about 10 kHz to about 80 kHz.
            In still a further example, the means for co-mingling comprises a manifold having
   input ports for a plurality of flows of positively-charged water and an output port. In one such
   example, the means for co-mingling further comprises a well fracturing water and proppant
   blender. In a variety of examples, the majority of the suspended solids are less than about 100
30 microns. In some such examples substantially all the suspended solids are less than about 100
   microns. In a more limited set of examples, the majority of the suspended solids are less than
   10170440_1doex

                                                   14
   about 10 microns. In an even more limited set of examples, substantially all the suspended
   solids are less than about 10 microns.
            In a more specific example, the means for separating comprises a two-stage separator.
   In one such example, the two-stage separator comprises: a three-phase separator having a
 5 water output coupled to an input of a two-phase separator. In a further example, three-phase
   separator comprises a four-material separator having at least four outputs including: a slurry,
   water having suspended solids therein, hydrocarbon liquid, and hydrocarbon gas.
            In another example of the invention, a system is provided for treatment of
   hydrocarbon well fracture water, the system comprising: a multi-phase separator; a manifold
10 having an input port connected to an output of the multiphase separator and having multiple
   output ports; a plurality of pipes, each having coils wound on the pipe, wherein each pipe has
   an input end connected to an output port of the manifold and each pipe has an output end; a
   co-mingling manifold having input ports connected to the output ends of the plurality of
   pipes.
15          In at least one such system, a proppant-water blender is also provided that is connected
   to an output of the co-mingling manifold.
            In at least one such system, the multi-phase separator comprises a multi-stage
   separator. In a more specific example, the multi-stage separator comprises a two-stage
   separator, wherein: a first stage of the two-stage separator comprises a three-phase separator
20 and a second stage of the two-stage separator comprises a two-phase separator. In an even
   more specific example, the three-phase separator comprises a four-material separator
   including an oil-water interface control system.
            In still another example of the invention, a method is provided for controlling of
   water/liquid hydrocarbon interface in a three-phase separator, the method comprising:
25 establishing a water/liquid hydrocarbon interface in a three-phase separator; measuring the
   water/liquid hydrocarbon interface in the three-phase separator, wherein a water/liquid
   hydrocarbon interface measurement signal results; comparing the water/liquid hydrocarbon
   interface measurement signal to a set point, wherein a comparison signal results; reducing the
   flow-back or produced water into the three-phase separator of hydrocarbon well fracture water
30 when the comparison signal indicates the water/liquid hydrocarbon interface is above the set
   point; and increasing flow into the three-phase separator when the comparison signal indicates
   10170440_1doex

                                                   15
   the water/liquid hydrocarbon interface is below the set point, wherein the increasing flow
   comprises hydrocarbon well fracture water from a well and make-up water from a storage
   tank or a lagoon.
            In a further example, the method also comprises: decreasing the flow exiting the three
 5 phase separator at the same rate in balance with the flow as it decreases into the three-phase
   separator, and increasing the flow exiting the three-phase separator at the same balanced rate
   as the flow increases into the three-phase separator.
            In another example, a system is provided for controlling of water/liquid hydrocarbon
   interface in the three-phase separator, where in the system comprises: means for establishing a
10 water/liquid hydrocarbon interface in a three-phase separator; means for measuring the
   water/liquid hydrocarbon interface in the three-phase separator, wherein a water/liquid
   hydrocarbon interface measurement signal results; means for comparing the water/liquid
   hydrocarbon interface measurement signal to a set point, wherein a comparison signal results;
   means for reducing the flow into the three-phase separator of hydrocarbon well fracture water
15 when the comparison signal indicates the water/liquid hydrocarbon interface is above the set
   point and for increasing flow into the three-phase separator when the comparison signal
   indicates the water/liquid hydrocarbon interface is below the set point, wherein the increasing
   flow comprises hydrocarbon well fracture water and make-up water.
            In at least one example, the means for establishing a water/liquid hydrocarbon
20 interface comprises a diaphragm wier. In a further example, the means for measuring the
   water/liquid hydrocarbon interface comprises a liquid level indicator controller-type sensor. In
   still a further example, comparing the water/liquid hydrocarbon interface measurement signal
   to a set point comprises a continuous capacitance level transmitter.
            In some examples, the means for reducing and for increasing the flow into the three
25 phase separator comprises a turbine type flow meter and an inlet type control valve in-line
   with the input of the three-phase separator.
            In further examples, also provided are: means for decreasing and balancing the flow
   exiting the three-phase separator at the same rate as the flow decreases into the three-phase
   separator and for increasing the flow exiting the three-phase separator at the same balanced
30 rate as the flow increases into the three-phase separator.
   10170440_1doex

                                                  16
            In at least one such example the means for decreasing and increasing the flow exiting
   the three-phase separator comprises a flow-type meter connected in-line with the water output
   of the three-phase separator. In another example, the means for decreasing and increasing the
   flow exiting the three-phase separator comprises an orifice-type flow controller controlling
 5 the water output of the three-phase separator.
        Examples of the inventions are further illustrated in the attached drawings, which are
   illustrations and not intended as engineering or assembly drawings and are not to scale.
   Various components are represented symbolically; also, in various places, "windows" into
   components illustrate the flow of material from one location to another. However, those of
10 skill in the art will understand which components are normally closed. Nothing in the
   drawings or detailed description should be interpreted as a limitation of any claim term to
   mean something other than its ordinary meaning to a person of skill in the various
   technologies brought together in this description.
        In at least one example, a method for increasing hydrocarbon production from a
15 subsurface formation, comprises: generating ionized fluid, pumping the ionized fluid from a
   surface location into at least one subsurface location in a hydrocarbon well, pressuring the
   ionized fluid at the at least one subsurface location, depressurizing the ionized fluid at the
   perforated location, wherein at least a portion of the ionized fluid returns to the surface
   location containing suspended materials. In another example, the method further comprises
20 perforating at least one subsurface location.
        In at least one such example, the method further comprises fracking the at least one
   subsurface location. In yet another example, the method further comprises isolating at least
   one subsurface location from at least one portion of the hydrocarbon well.
        In yet another example, the method, wherein said ionized fluid inhibits corrosion of the
25 hydrocarbon well. In a further example, the method wherein the ionized fluid composition
   comprises at least fifty percent water by volume.
        In another example, the ionized fluid comprises positively charged water. In still a further
   example, the method further comprises mixing the ionized fluid with a proppant.
        According to a further example, the method wherein the ionized fluid is generated by
30 exposing water to electromagnetic fields of influence. In yet another example, the method
   wherein the electromagnetic field of influence is pulsed at a full wave of up to three hundred
   10170440_1doex

                                                    17
   and sixty times per second. In another example, the method wherein the electromagnetic field
   of influence is pulsed at a full wave of more than eighty times per second.
        In yet another example, the method wherein the suspended particles include calcium based
   suspended particles.
 5      In still a further example, the method further comprises recycling a portion of the
   flowback fluid from the well. In another example, the method further comprises recycling a
   portion of the produced fluid from the well. In yet another example, the method further
   comprises ionizing the recycled portion of the produced fluid. In another example, the method
   wherein the ionized fluid being generated comprises recycled fluid, produced fluid, and
10 makeup fluid.
        In a more specific example, a means system for increasing hydrocarbon production from a
   subsurface     formation comprises: means for generating         an ionized    fluid; means for
   transporting the ionized fluid from the surface into at least one fracture zone of the subsurface
   formation, means for pressuring the ionized fluid at the at least one fracture zone; means for
15 maintaining the pressurize at the at least one fracture zone; means for depressurizing the
   ionized fluid at the at least one fracture zone; wherein a portion of the ionized fluid returns to
   the surface carrying suspended particles of the formation. In yet another example, the means
   for generating ionized fluid further comprises a means for treating water with electromagnetic
   fields of influence.
20 In another example, the system wherein the means for generating the electromagnetic fields of
   influence comprises: a pipe; and at least one electrical coil having an axis substantially
   coaxial with the pipe. In a further example, the system wherein the electromagnetic fields of
   influence are generated at a full wave frequency of more than eighty pulses per second.
        In yet another example, the system wherein the ionized fluid is composed of at least fifty
25 percent water by volume.
        In another example, the system wherein the electromagnetic fields of influence are
   generated at a full wave frequency of up to three hundred and sixty pulses per second. In a
   further example, the system wherein the electromagnetic fields of influence eliminate the
   majority of the micro-organisms within the ionized fluid.
   10170440_1doex

                                                    18
       In another example, the system further comprises a means for adding proppant to the
   ionized fluid. In yet another example, the system wherein said means for adding proppant to
   the ionized fluid comprises a blender.
       In another example, the system wherein said means for transporting the ionized fluid from
 5 the surface into a fracture zone of the subsurface formation comprises coiled tubing.
       In yet another example, the wherein said means for pressuring the ionized fluid at the
   fracture zone comprises at least one fracturing pump.
       In a further example, the system wherein said means for maintaining the pressure at the
   fracture zone comprises at least one packer.
10     In yet another example, the system wherein said means for depressurizing the ionized
   fluid at the fracture zone comprises coiled tubing. In another example, the system further
   comprises a drill mechanism attached to the coil tubing adapted to compromise the at least
   one packer.
       In a further example, the system further comprises a means for recycling flowback fluid,
15 wherein a portion of the recycled flowback fluid is used to generate the ionized fluid. In yet
   another example, the system further comprises a means for separating the flowback into water
   and at least one other substance.
       In yet another example, the system wherein the ionized fluid comprises positively charged
   water. In another example, the system further comprises a means for recycling produced fluid,
20 wherein a portion of the recycled produced fluid is used to generate the ionized fluid. In an
   example, the system further comprises a means for separating the produced fluid into water
   and at least one other substance.
       In a more specific example, a method for increasing hydrocarbon production from a
   subsurface formation comprising: generating ionized fluid, re-entering a formation; accessing
25 at least one select location within a hydrocarbon well; pumping the ionized fluid from a
   surface location into the subsurface formation at the at least one selected location in a
   hydrocarbon well, pressuring the ionized fluid at the at least one selected location,
   depressurizing the ionized fluid at the at least one selected location, wherein at least a portion
   of the ionized fluid returns to the surface location containing suspended materials. In a further
30 example, the method further comprises eliminating the majority of the microorganisms within
   10170440_1doex

                                                    19
   the ionized fluid. In yet another example, the method wherein the ionized fluid composition
   comprises at least fifty percent water by volume.
       In yet another example, the method wherein the ionized fluid comprises positively
   charged water.
 5     In a further example, the method wherein the ionized fluid is generated by subjecting a
   fluid to electromagnetic fields of influence. In yet another example, the method wherein the
   electromagnetic fields of influence are pulsed at a full wave of more than eighty times per
   second. In a further example, the method wherein the electromagnetic fields of influence are
   pulsed at a full wave of up to three hundred and sixty times per second.
10     In yet another example, the method wherein the suspended particles include calcium based
   suspended particles. In another example, the method further comprising isolating the at least
   one selected location from at least one portion of the hydrocarbon well.
       In a further example, the method further comprises perforating the at least one selected
   location.
15     In yet another example, the method further comprises cracking at least one selected
   location.
       In another example, the method further comprises mixing the ionized fluid with a
   proppant. In yet another example, the method further comprising isolating the at least one
   selected location from a second selected location.
20     In a further example. the method further comprises installing at least one packer to isolate
   the at least one selected location from at least one portion of the hydrocarbon well.
       In an example, the method further comprises drilling out the at least one packer.
       In a more specific example, a method of increasing production from a subsurface shale
   formation comprises: generating ionized fluid with electromagnetic fields of influence;
25 pumping the ionized fluid into the subsurface shale formation; and exposing the previously
   perforated zone to ionized fluid under pressure; wherein the production from the subsurface
   shale increases after the ionized fluid is depressurized, wherein previously perforated zone has
   been previously fracked, further comprising fracking the previously perforated zone and,
   further comprising selecting a zone to expose to ionized fluid.
30     In a further example, the method further comprises perforating the selected zone. In
   another example, the method further comprises fracking the selected zone and isolating the
   10170440_1doex

                                                   20
   selected zone. In yet another example, the method further comprises pressurizing the selected
   zone with ionized water. In yet another example, the method further comprises holding the
   pressure in the selected zone for a predetermined period of time. In yet another example, the
   method further comprises releasing the pressure in the selected zone. In yet another example,
 5 the method further comprises mixing the ionized fluid with a proppant.
       In a more specific example, a device for use in a hydrocarbon well fracture operation
   comprising: an electromagnetic field generator having a first fluid input port and a first fluid
   output port; at least one fracturing pump having a second fluid input port connect to the first
   fluid output port of the electromagnetic field generator; and a coiled tubing device having the
10 coil tubing input connect to the second fluid output port, and further comprises at least one
   well fracture tool attached to the coil tubing. In yet another example, the device further
   comprises at least one well perforation tool attached to the coiled tubing. In yet another
   example, the device further comprises at least one pipe in within the electromagnetic field
   generator located between the first fluid input port and the first fluid output port.
15     In yet another example, the device further comprises at least one electromagnetic coil
   surrounding at least one pipe. In another example, the device further comprises at least one
   completions tool attached to the end of coiled tubing.
       In yet a further example, the device further comprises a wellhead at the surface of the
   hydrocarbon well, wherein the coiled tubing interfaces with the hydrocarbon well by way of
20 the wellhead. In another example, the device further comprises a flowback line from the
   wellhead with an outlet port. In yet another example, the device further comprises the
   flowback line outlet port connected to a separator, the separator having an inlet port and at
   least one outlet port. In a even further example, the device further comprises at least one
   separator outlet port connecting to a second inlet port on the electromagnetic field generator.
25 Description of the Drawings
            Figure 1 is a diagram of a well site showing the flow of various materials used in
   various examples of the invention.
            Figures 2A and 2B, when connected along their respective dotted lines, are a side view
   of an example of the invention.
30          Figure 2A1 is an alternative to the embodiment of Figure 2A.
   10170440_1doex

                                                    21
            Figure 2C is a schematic of a control system used in at least one example of the
   invention.
            Figures 3A and 3B, when connected by the overlapping components next to their
   dotted lines, are a plan view of the example of Figures 2A and 2B.
 5          Figures 3C and 3D are an isometric and side view, respectively, of an aspect of the
   examples of Figures 2A-2B and Figures 3A-3B.
            Figure 4 is a side view of a further example of the invention.
            Figure 5 is a plan view of the example of Figure 4.
            Figure 6 is a diagram of a well site showing the flow of various materials used in
10 various examples of the invention.
            Figure 7 is a diagram of a well site showing the flow of various materials used in
   various examples of the invention.
            Figure 8 is a top view of an example of the invention.
            Figure 9 is a side view of an example of the invention.
15          Figure I0A is a side view of support leg 100 of Figure 8.
            Figure 10 B depicts a top view of foot 101 of Figure 10 A.
            Figure 11 is a cross section view taken through line A of Figure 9.
            Figure 12 is a cross section view taken along line C of Figure 8.
            Figure 13 is a cross section view taken along line B of Figure 8.
20          Figure 14A is a top view of a component of an example of the invention.
            Figure 14B is a section view of the component of Figure 14A.
            Figure 15 is a schematic of a control system useful in examples of the invention.
            Figure 16 is a representational view of a system useful in examples of the invention.
            Figure 17 is a schematic of a control system useful according to examples of the
25 invention.
            Figure 18 is a perspective view of examples of the invention.
            Figure 19 is a perspective view of an apparatus embodying the invention.
            Figure 20 is an exploded view of the pipe unit of the apparatus of Figure 19.
            Figure 21 is a longitudinal cross sectional view taken through the pipe unit of Figure
30 19.
            Figure 22 is a simplified circuit diagram of the pipe unit of Figure 19.
   10170440_1doex

                                                    22
            Figure 23 is a detailed schematic diagram of the electrical circuit of the pipe unit of
   Figure 19.
            Figure 24 is a diagram showing certain wave shapes produced by the pipe unit of
   Figure 19 during operation.
 5          Figure 25 is a circuit diagram similar to Figure 4 but showing a modified embodiment
   of the invention.
            Figure 26 is a view similar to Figure 21 but showing a modified embodiment of the
   invention in which the pipe unit has only one coil surrounding the liquid flow pipe.
            Figure 27 is a detailed circuit diagram similar to Figure 23 but showing an electrical
10 circuit for use with the pipe unit of Figure 27.
            Figure 28 is a chart specifying presently preferred values of certain parameters of the
   apparatus of Figures 19 to 24.
            Figure 29 is a diagram of a well site showing the flow of various materials used in
   various examples of the invention, including pumping ionized water into a formation.
15          Figure 30 is a diagram of a perforation zone being exposed to an ionized fluid.
            Figure 31 is a diagram of the zeta principal and showing the positioning of fields and
   force.
   10170440_1doex

                                                     23
   Detailed Description of Examples of the Invention
            Referring now to Figure 1, a flow diagram of the use of the invention in a hydrocarbon
   well having a well bore 1 with cemented casing 3 passing through fracture zones that are
   isolated by packers. Coil tubing 9 is inserted by rig 11 for fracture operations known to those
 5 of skill in the art.
            Flow       back     (and/or     produced)     water     is   routed      to    three-phase
   solids/liquids/gas/hydrocarbon/water separator 10, from which any hydrocarbon liquids and
   gases are produced, and water from separator 10 is routed to a fracturing-water storage tank
   17 which may also include water from another source (aka "make up" water). Wet solids are
10 passed from three-phase separator 10 to two-phase separator 14, which produces water that is
   passed to a quench system 32 and slurry that are passed to kiln 24. Slag is passed from kiln
   24 through quench system 32 to crusher 40 and then to mill 46. Milled material is separated
   into a specified size at screen 50 that is sent to a proppant storage silo 26, which may also
   include proppant from another source (e.g., a supplier of sand). Water is provided to
15 biocide/coalescer unit 13. Proppant provided to blender 15 from silo 26, water is supplied to
   blender 15 from biocide/coalescer unit 13; the blended water and proppant are then provided
   to fracturing pumps 19, which pumps the blend into the well where it fractures the oil shale
   layer 21. Other additives may be provided to the blender 15, as desired. Also, proppant may
   be added to the water before the biocide/coalescer unit 13 in alternative examples.
20          Examples of the invention create a range of proppants of specific sizes from a slurry
   extracted from a hydraulically-fractured hydrocarbon well.
            In Figures 2A and 2C and in Figures 3A - 3D, a more specific example is seen. In
   that example, a slurry is extracted from gravity-precipitated slurry that accumulates at the
   bottom of a conventional three-phase separation tank 10 (which is of a common design known
25 to those of skill in the art). In the specific example of Fig. 2A, as will occur to those of skill in
   the art, a water/liquid hydrocarbon interface level facilitates the separation and recovery of
   any liquid hydrocarbon product from the flow back or produced water stream (which is under
   pressure as it enters separator 10) by means of an internally or externally mounted water level
   indicator (not shown). That indicator sends a water level measurement signal to a pre
30 programmed, low level/high level water flow control data integrator (not shown). When the
   water level in the separator 10 reaches the high level set point, the data integrator actuates a
   10170440_1doex

                                                     24
   control valve (not shown) that controls flow through the water feed pipe 10a (labeled "Inlet
   Water") to reduce the amount of water going into the three phase separator, and the rate of
   flow continues to decrease until a point is reached where the incoming amount of
   water equalizes and balances out the volume of water being withdrawn from the three phase
 5 separator. Conversely, if the water level in the three phase separator 10 falls below the low
   level set point, the data integrator actuates and further opens up the control valve in inlet pipe
   10a in order to increase the amount or rate of water flow that is sufficient to stabilize the
   interface level. If this additional amount of water is not sufficient to stabilize the water level
   at the interface level, the integrator actuates a pump (not shown) and opens up another control
10 valve (not shown) which is located in a discharge pipe (not shown) in water storage tank 17
   (Fig. 1). That discharge pipe is connected to the inlet pipe 10a; thus water from fracturing
   water storage tank 17 continues to flow into the three phase separator together with the flow
   back or produced water until the water level in the separator 10 reaches the proper interface
   level. Then, the make-up water control valve closes and the make-up water pump is shut off.
15 This control sequence is necessary in order to achieve steady state and continuous operational
   stability in the separation and recovery of any liquid hydrocarbon product that is carried into
   the three phase separator by the flow back or produced water feed stream.
            A weir and baffle configuration (commonly known in gas/oil separation units)
   facilitates the separation and recovery of the liquid hydrocarbon product, if any, by using the
20 interface level as the maximum height of the water in the separator and allowing the lighter
   liquid hydrocarbons to float on top of the water layer and then be withdrawn as liquid
   hydrocarbon product after it flows over the liquid hydrocarbon product weir and is withdrawn
   at the hydrocarbon liquid product outlet flange connection. A horizontal baffle under the weir
   limits the amount of potential water carry over that might be comingled with the
25 liquid hydrocarbon product stream. As the flow back or produced water stream enters the
   three phase separator 10 the depressurization releases the lighter hydrocarbon gases and their
   release assists in the flotation of the liquid hydrocarbon products as well as the release of the
   gaseous hydrocarbon products through outlet 10c. Water flows out of separator 10 through
   pipe 1Ob to a surge tank (not shown) and is then pumped back to water tank 17 (Fig. 1).
30          From separator 10, a motor-driven positive displacement diaphragm-type sludge pump
   12 moves the slurry upwards to the inlet opening of a two-phase water/solids separation tank
   10170440_1doex

                                                  25
   14 resulting in a solid stream 16 and a liquid stream 18 that is pumped by pump 19 to a
   quench (labeled "Q"). From the bottom of the two-phase water/solids separation tank 14, a
   bucket-elevator conveyor 20 transports the precipitated slurry materials from the lower part of
   the water/solids separation tank 14 upwards from the water level and discharges them into the
 5 feed-hopper 22 (Fig. 2B). The discharge is seen in Figure 2A as going over a dashed line,
   which connects with the dashed line to the left of Figure 2B where slurry is seen accumulating
   in feed-hopper 22 of a slagging, rotary-kiln 24, leaving the slurry water to remain in the
   water/solids separation tank 14 and the elevator 20. As a result, all separation is carried out at
   atmospheric pressure rather than in pressurized-vessels (as is current practice).
10          In the feed-hopper 22, the slurry materials from the water/slurry separation tank are
   mixed with specification proppant from silo 26 (Fig. 1), as well as under-sized and over-sized
   solid materials that come from a final screening unit 50 (described below).
            As the fusion process for the proppant material proceeds, inorganic proppant materials
   are fised into a uniform mass and volatile organic materials that may have been present in the
15 feed stream from the water/solids separation tank 14 are burned and vaporized prior to the
   gases being eventually discharged into an exhaust vent 30.
            The proppant material exiting from the rotary kiln 24 is quenched with a stream of
   water to reduce the temperature of the material, as it emerges from the outlet of the kiln 24. In
   some examples, discharged material flows onto a perforated, motor-driven stainless-steel
20 conveyor belt 35 and the water cascades, through spray nozzles 34 on to the moving belt 35
   thereby solidifying and cooling the proppant material. The water used for quenching the
   proppant material comes from the water/solids separation tank 14 (see Fig. 2A) using, e.g., a
   motor-driven centrifugal pump 19 to push the water to the quench nozzles 34 of Fig. 3B. An
   excess water collection pan 36 is positioned under the conveyor belt 35 to collect and recover
25 any excess quench water and convey it back to the water/solids separation tank 14 by a motor
   driven centrifugal pump 21 and a pipeline shown flowing to return "R" of Fig. 2A.
            Quenching the hot proppant material, as it is discharged fr-om the kiln 24, causes a
   multitude of random, differential-temperature       fractures or cracks due to the uneven
   contraction of the proppant material and the high internal stresses caused by rapid quenching.
30 The different sized pieces of proppant material are discharged directly into the material
   crusher 40.
   10170440_1doex

                                                   26
            Crushing or breaking up the large irregular pieces of proppant material and reducing
   their size is accomplished, in some examples, by a motor-driven, vertical-shaft, gyratory,
   eccentric cone or jaw crusher, known to those of skill in the art. The degree of the size
   reduction is adjusted by changing the spacing or crusher gap, thus allowing a range of
 5 different material sizes to be produced, as is known to those of skill in the art.
            Sizing of the proppant material is accomplished by the grinding or milling of the
   crushed proppant material after the proppant material is discharged at the bottom of the
   crusher. In the illustrated example, the material is conveyed upwards to ball mill 46 by a
   bucket-elevator conveyor 44. In at least one alternative example, a rod mill is used. The mill
10 46 is adjusted to grind the proppant material to different specific size ranges by changing
   rotation, the size and spacing of the rods or balls in the mill 46 (or its rotation).
            The milled proppant material flows by gravity down through the grinding zone of the
   mill and is discharged onto vibrating screen 50 where the mesh openings are selectively sized
   to a specific sieve value. For example, for soft mineral shale the mesh openings are in the 590
15 micron range or a #30 sieve. For hard mineral shale (for example) the mesh openings would
   be in the 150 micron range or a #100 sieve. Proppant material of the proper size flows
   downward by gravity through a selectively sized screen exiting at "A." Proppant material that
   is too large to pass through the slanted, vibrating screen 53 exits onto belt 51 a (seen better in
   Fig. 3B), and the rest drops to screen 55. Proppant material between the sizes of screens 53
20 and 55 exit as correctly sized proppant at "A" and is transported to silo 26 (Fig. 1). Under
   sized proppant drops onto belt 51 a which conveys the under-sized and over-sized proppant to
   belt 51b, which then carries the proppant back to kiln 24, through elevator 25. Figs. 3A and
   3B illustrate a top view of an example of the invention in which the components are mounted
   on a trailer or skid mounted that are assembled at a well site with biocide and other
25 components (e.g., Figs. 4 and 5).      Such trailers or skids are leveled in some examples by
   leveling jacks 81.
            As seen in Figures 3C and 3D, elevator 25 deposits material into the top of feed
   hopper 22 and elevator 23 deposits material from the silo into feed hopper 22 from a lower
   level through an opening in feed hopper 22.
   10170440_1doex

                                                  27
            The properly-sized proppant materials flow is fed, by gravity, into a specification
   proppant container (not shown) for transfer to the specification proppant storage silo 26 (Fig.
   1) which may also contain specification proppant from another source.
            Referring now to Fig. 2B, it is desirable to control the viscosity of the proppant feed
 5 mixture, to attain stability of sustaining an optimum fusion temperature (in some examples,
   approximately 2200 degrees Fahrenheit). As the proppant feed mixture temperature is rising,
   due to the heat in kiln 24, the process of fusing the various inorganic materials into a
   uniformly viscous mass is achieved when the temperature in the proppant mixture reaches the
   fusion temperature of silicon dioxide or sand. The viscosity of the proppant material is a
10 function of the temperature of the material itself. Such control is accomplished in various
   ways.
            In at least one example, the temperature of the fused material is measured, by any
   means know to those of skill in the art, for example, an optical pyrometric sensor in quench
   system 32, as it exits from the kiln. If the temperature is above the fusion point of the
15 material, it will be too liquid, and the fuel to the kiln is reduced. At the same time, more
   specification proppant may be added to the feed hopper 22. This affects the temperature
   because the material coming from the slurry is not uniform and is not dry; adding proppant
   from the silo evens out the variability.
            Referring now to Fig. 2C, a schematic is seen in which sensor 67 signals integrator 69
20 with the temperature of the output of the kiln 24. Integrator 69 then controls variable-speed
   motor 90 (Fig. 3A) that operates elevator 23 (see also Fig. 3B) that carries proppant from the
   bottom of proppant silo 26 and discharges it into the slagging rotary kiln feed-hopper 22. The
   different material streams are comingled in the feed-hopper 22 before they enter the revolving
   drum of the kiln 24. The proportion or amount of specification proppant that is needed to be
25 added to the material stream from the water/solids tank 14 is adjusted, depending upon the
   changes in the composition of the materials coming from the water/solids separation tank 14.
   This increases uniformity of the proppant material feed mixture that kiln 24 uses in the fusion
   process. In at least one example, if the temperature is too high, the fuel to the burner is
   reduced; if that does not correct it, the amount of proppant to the kiln will be increased.
30 Likewise, if the temperature is too low, the fuel is increased to the burner; and, if that does not
   10170440_1doex

                                                  28
   work, the amount of proppant is decreased. Alternative arrangements will occur to those of
   skill in the art.
            Referring back to Figure 2C, integrator 69 also controls valve 63 to increase or
   decrease the supply of fuel 61 for kiln burner 65.
 5          Referring again to Figure 1, one example of the invention is seen in which separator
    10 is seen feeding the slurry to separator 14, and water from separator 10 is the joined with
   new "make-up" (in tank 17) water to be used in injection in a new fracturing job.           The
   combined flows are treated by an electromagnetic biocide/coalescer 13 of the type described
   in U.S. Patent No. 6,063,267, incorporated herein by reference for all purposes (commercially
10 available as a Dolphin model 2000), which is set, in at least one example, to impart an electro
   magnetic pulse having the following characteristics: selectable, variable, and tuneable
   frequencies in a range between about 10-80 KHz. Such a pulse is sufficient to kill biological
   organisms and to cause a positive charge to be applied to the water, making the dissolved
   solids capable of being precipitated or coalesced in the well.
15          Figures 4 and 5 are side and top views, respectively, of an example trailer-mounted or
   skid-mounted system that includes a set of biocide/coalescers 70a - 701, organized to receive
   fracturing tank water in the type of flow rate used in common shale-fracture operations. Such
   units are run from an electrical control panel 72, that is connected to an overhead power and
   control distribution rack 73 that connects to overhead power feed components 71a - 711.
20 Power is supplied by an engine 75 that turns an electrical generator 77 that is connected to
   power feed 79 for supplying power in a manner known to those of skill in the art.
        Referring now to Figure 2A1, an alternative to the embodiment of Figure 2A as seen in
   which the water level of two-phase separator 14 is at the same as the level and three-phase
   separator 10. In such an embodiment, there is fluid communication through a diaphragm
25 pump 12 and tanks are at atmospheric pressure such that the liquid gas interface is at the same
   level.
        Referring now to Figure 6, according to another example of the invention, a system is
   provided for treating hydrocarbon well fracture water from a hydrocarbon well, system
   comprising a means for separating solids from fracture water comprising a three-phase, four
30 material separator 10, wherein a flow of water with suspended solids results that is passed to a
   fracturing water storage tank 17. From there so-called "make-up water" may be added to
   10170440_1doex

                                                  29
   fracture water storage tank 17 and the flow of water is passed through a means for separating
   the flow of water into a plurality of flows of water (described in more detail below); to a
   means for generating positive charge in the plurality of flows of water (for example, a set of
   biocide coalescers or units as described above), wherein a plurality of flows of positively
 5 charged water results. A means for comingling plurality of flows of positively-charged water
   more evenly distributes the positive charge in the water before it is passed to blender 15 for
   use in subsequent well fracturing operations.
            Figure 7 illustrates an example in which the means for separating further comprises a
   second stage, two-phase separator 14, the two-phase separator comprising            an input for
10 receiving water flow from the three-phase gas oil separator. The water flow from the three
   phase separator is taken from the midsection of the separator, while most solids dropped out
   at the bottom, as described above. However, the water from the three-phase separator includes
   suspended solids that can damage a biocide coalesce or unit. Accordingly, in one example
   embodiment, the water flow from the three-phase separator 10 is passed to the input of a two
15 phase separator 14, which also includes an output for the flow of water with suspended
   smaller suspended solids. Two-phase separator 14 also drops solids out of its lower section in
   the form of a slurry. The slurry from three-phase separator 10 and two-phase separator 14 are
   further processed (for example as described above) or disposed of in some other manner.
            Referring now to Figures 8 and 9, an example of a three-phase, four-material separator
20 90, useful according to some embodiments of the invention and place of three-phase separator
   10, as seen. Separator 90 and includes an input 92, a slurry output 94, a liquid hydrocarbon
   output 98 and a gas output 80. As also seen in Figure 10A, separator 90 is supported by legs
   100 (which includes a foot 101, as seen in Figure lOB) welded to the side of separator 90.
            Referring again to Figure 9, as well as Figure 11 (which is a cross section taken
25 through line A of Figure 9) and Figure 13 (which is a cross-sectional taken along line B of
   Figure 8), a baffle 111 allows water having some suspended solids to exit separator 90 while
   larger solids exit as the slurry at the bottom exit 94. Figure 12 illustrates a cross-section of
   input 92 (taken along line C of Figure 8) where input pipe 92 is supported by support 120
   connected to the bottom of separator 90 and holding input pipe 92 and a saddle.
30          In a further example, there is also provided: means for monitoring an oil/water
   interface level; and means for controlling the oil/water interface level in the first and second
   10170440_1doex

                                                    30
   separator. In one such example, the means for monitoring comprises an oil/water interface
   level indicator and control valve sensor (for example, a cascade control system).
            As illustrated in Figure 18, in some examples, the means for separating the flow of
   water into a plurality of flows of water comprises a manifold 181 having an input port valve
 5 183 to receive the flow of water with suspended solids from a means for separating and a
   plurality of output ports attached to biocide coalescer units 184, each output port having a
   cross-sectional area that is smaller than the cross-sectional area of the input of the manifold.
   In some examples, the sum of the cross-sectional areas of the output ports is greater than the
   cross-sectional area of the input ports, whereby the flow rate exiting the manifold is less than
10 the flow rate entering the manifold. In at least one example, the manifold 181 comprises a
   1:12 manifold (for example, having cross-sectional diameters of 4 inches in the output ports
   and a larger cross sectional diameter in the input ports). In an alternative example, the means
   for separating the flow of water into a plurality of flows of water comprises a water truck as is
   known in the art (not shown) having a plurality of compartments, each compartment being
15 positioned to receive a portion of the flow of water. In operation, water passes through valve
   183 into manifold 181 and the flow is slowed as it is separated into parallel flows through the
   parallel-connected biocide coalescer units 184 to increase residence time for imparting
   electromagnetic flux in order to maximize the positive charges the electromagnetic flux
   imparts to the water. The output of the units 184 is comingled in manifold 186, who's output
20 is controlled by valve 188. The entire assembly of the manifolds and biocide coalescer units
   is, in some examples, mounted on frame 184 which may be lifted by harness 186 onto a pad at
   a well site or onto the bed of a truck for transportation.
            In a further example, the means for generating positive charge comprises means for
   treating each of the plurality of flows of water with electromagnetic flux. At least one such
25 example is seen in Figures 19-28, where the means for treating each of the plurality of flows
   of water with electromagnetic flux comprises: a pipe and at least one electrical coil having an
   axis substantially coaxial with the pipe. In some such examples, the pipe consists essentially
   of non-conducting material. In some such examples, the pipe consists essentially of stainless
   steel. In a variety of examples, there is also provided a ringing current switching circuit
30 connected to the coil. In some such examples, the ringing current switching circuit operates in
   a full-wave mode at a frequency between about 10 kHz to about 80 kHz.
   10170440_1doex

                                                    31
            Specifically, still referring to Figures 19-28, turning first to FIG. 19, an apparatus
   embodying the invention is indicated generally at 910 and comprises basically a pipe unit 912
   and an alternating current electrical power supply 914. The pipe unit 912 includes a pipe 916
   through which liquid to be treated passes with the direction of flow of liquid being indicated
 5 by the arrows A. The pipe 916 may be made of various materials, but as the treatment of the
   liquid effected by the pipe unit 912 involves the passage of electromagnetic flux through the
   walls of the pipe and into the liquid passing through the pipe, the pipe is preferably made of a
   non-electrical conducting material to avoid diminution of the amount of flux reaching the
   liquid due to some of the flux being consumed in setting up eddy currents in the pipe material.
10 Other parts of the pipe unit 912 are contained in or mounted on a generally cylindrical
   housing 918 surrounding the pipe 916.
            The pipe unit 912 is preferably, and as hereinafter described, one designed for
   operation by a relatively low voltage power source, for example, a power source having a
   voltage of 911 V(rms) to 37 V(rms) and a frequency of 60 Hz and, therefore, the illustrated
15 power supply 914 is a voltage step down transformer having a primary side connected to an
   input cord 920 adapted by a plug 922 for connection to a standard mains, such as one
   supplying electric power at 120 V 60 Hz or 240 V 60 Hz, and having an output cord 924
   connected to the secondary side of the transformer and supplying the lower voltage power to
   the pipe unit 912. The pipe unit 912 may be designed for use with pipes 916 of different
20 diameter and the particular output voltage provided by the power source 914 is one selected to
   best suit the diameter of the pipe and the size and design of the related components of the pipe
   unit.
            The pipe unit 912, in addition to the housing 918 and pipe 916, consists essentially of
   an electrical coil means surrounding the pipe and a switching circuit for controlling the flow
25 of current through the coil means in such a way as to produce successive periods of ringing
   current through the coil means and resultant successive ringing periods of electromagnetic
   flux passing through the liquid in the pipe 916. The number, design and arrangement of the
   coils making up the coil means may vary, and by way of example in FIGS. 20 and 21 the coil
   means is shown to consist of four coils, L1, L2-outer, L2-inner and L3 arranged in a fashion
30 similar to that of U.S. Pat. No. 5,702,600, incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
   The coils, as shown in FIGS. 20 and 21, are associated with three different longitudinal
   10170440_1doex

                                                    32
   sections 926, 928 and 930 of the pipe 916. That is, the coil Li is wound onto and along a
   bobbin 932 in turn extending along the pipe section 926, the coil L3 is wound on and along a
   bobbin 934 itself extending along the pipe section 930, and the two coils L2-inner and L2
   outer are wound on a bobbin 936 itself extending along the pipe section 928, with the coil L2
 5 outer being wound on top of the coil L2-inner. The winding of the two coils L2-inner and L2
   outer on top of one another, or otherwise in close association with one another, produces a
   winding capacitance between those two coils which forms all or part of the capacitance of a
   series resonant circuit as hereinafter described.
            Referring to FIG. 20, the housing 918 of the pipe unit 912 is made up of a cylindrical
10 shell 938 and two annular end pieces 940 and 942. The components making up the switching
   circuit are carried by the end piece 940 with at least some of them being mounted on a heat
   sink 944 fastened to the end piece 940 by screws 946. In the assembly of the pipe unit 912,
   the end piece 940 is first slid onto the pipe 916, from the right end of the pipe as seen in FIG.
   20, to a position spaced some distance from the right end of the pipe, and is then fastened to
15 the pipe by set screws 948. The three coil bobbins 932, 936 and 934, with their coils, are then
   moved in succession onto the pipe 916 from the left end of the pipe until they abut one
   another and the end piece 940, with adhesive applied between the bobbins and the pipe to
   adhesively bond the bobbins to the pipe. An annular collar 950 is then slid onto the pipe from
   the left end of the pipe into abutting relationship with the coil L3 and is fastened to the pipe by
20 set screws 960, 960. The shell 938 is then slid over the pipe and fastened at its right end to the
   end piece 940 by screws 962, 962. Finally, the end piece 942 is slid over the pipe 916, from
   the left end of the pipe, and then fastened to the shell 938 by screws 964 and to the pipe by set
   screws 966.
            The basic wiring diagram for the pipe unit 912 is shown in FIG. 22. The input
25 terminals connected to the power source 914 are indicated at 968 and 970. A connecting
   means including the illustrated conductors connects these input terminals 968 and 970 to the
   coils and to the switching circuit 972 in the manner shown with the connecting means
   including a thermal overload switch 974. The arrow B indicates the clockwise direction of
   coil winding, and in keeping with this reference the coil L3 and the coil L2-outer are wound
30 around the pipe 916 in the clockwise direction and the coils Li and L2-inner are wound around
   the pipe in the counterclockwise direction. Taking these winding directions and the illustrated
   10170440_idoex

                                                   33
   electrical connections into account, it will be understood that when a current ic flows through
   the coils in the direction indicated by the arrows C, the directions of the magnetic fluxes
   passing through the centers of each of the coils, and therefore through the liquid in the pipe,
   are as shown by the arrows E, F, G and H in FIG. 22. That is, the fluxes passing through the
 5 centers of the coils Li, L2-inner and L3 move in one direction longitudinally of the pipe and
   the flux passing through the center of the coil L2-outer moves in the opposite direction.
   Depending on the design of the switching circuit 972, it may be necessary or desirable to
   provide a local ground for the switch circuit 972 and when this is the case, the switching
   circuit may be connected with the input terminals 968 and 970 through an isolation
10 transformer 976, as shown in FIG. 22.
            FIG. 23 is a wiring diagram showing in greater detail the connecting means and
   switching circuit 972 of FIG. 22. Referring to FIG. 23, the switching circuit 972 includes a 12
   V power supply subcircuit 976, a comparator subcircuit 978, a timer subcircuit 980, a switch
   982 and an indicator subcircuit 984.
15          The components D2, R5, C5, R6 and ZI comprise the 12 V DC power supply
   subcircuit 976 which powers the other components of the trigger circuit. Resistors RI and R2
   and the operational amplifier U1 form the comparator subcircuit 978. The resistors RI and R2
   form a voltage divider that sends a signal proportional to the applied AC voltage to the
   operational amplifier U 1. The capacitor C1 serves to filter out any "noise" voltage that might
20 be present in the AC input voltage to prevent the amplifier U1 from dithering. The amplifier
   U1 is connected to produce a "low" (zero) output voltage on the line 986 whenever the
   applied AC voltage is positive and to produce a "high" (+12 V) output when the AC voltage is
   negative.
            When the AC supply voltage crosses zero and starts to become positive, the amplifier
25 U1 switches to a low output. This triggers the 555 timer chip U2 to produce a high output on
   its pin 93. The capacitor C2 and R3 act as a high-pass filter to make the trigger pulse
   momentary rather than steady. The voltage at pin 92 of U2 is held low for about one-half
   millisecond. This momentary low trigger voltage causes U2 to hold a sustained high (+12 V)
   on pin 93.
30          The switch 982 may take various different forms and may be a sub-circuit consisting
   of a number of individual components, and in all events it is a three-terminal or triode switch
   10170440_idoex

                                                  34
   having first, second and third terminals 988, 990 and 992, respectively, with the third terminal
   992 being a gate terminal and with the switch being such that by the application of electrical
   signals to the gate terminal 992 the switch can be switched between an ON condition at which
   the first and second terminals are closed relative to one another and an OFF condition at
 5 which the first and second terminals are open relative to one another. In the preferred and
   illustrated case of FIG. 23, the switch 982 is a single MOSFET (Qi). The MOSFET (Q1)
   conducts, that is sets the terminals 988 and 990 to a closed condition relative to one another,
   as soon as the voltage applied to the gate terminal 992 becomes positive as a result of the
   input AC voltage appearing across the input terminals 968 and 970 becoming positive. This in
10 turn allows current to build up in the coils L1 , L2-inner, L2-outer, and L3 . When the time
   constant formed by the product of the resistor R4 and the capacitor C3 has elapsed, the 555
   chip U2 reverts to a low output at pin 93 turning the MOSFET (Q1) to its OFF condition.
   When this turning off of (Q1) occurs, any current still flowing in the coils is diverted to the
   capacitance which appears across the terminals 988 and 990 of (Q1). As shown in FIG. 23,
15 this capacitance is made up of the wiring capacitance Cc arising principally from the close
   association of the two coils L2-inner and L2-outer. This winding capacitance may of itself be
   sufficient for the purpose of creating a useful series resonant circuit with the coils, but if
   additional capacitance is needed, it can be supplied by a separate further tuning capacitor (Ct).
            When the switch (Ql) turns to the OFF or open condition, any current still flowing in
20 the coils is diverted to the capacitance (Cc and/or Ct) and this capacitance in conjunction with
   the coils and with the power source form a series resonant circuit causing the current through
   the coils to take on a ringing wave form and to thereby produce a ringing electromagnetic flux
   through the liquid in the pipe 916. By adjusting the variable resistor R4, the timing of the
   opening of the switch (Ql) can be adjusted to occur earlier or later in each operative half
25 cycle of the AC input voltage. Preferably, the circuit is adjusted by starting with R4 at its
   maximum value of resistance and then slowly adjusting it toward lower resistance until the
   LED indicator 994 of the indicator subcircuit 984 illuminates. This occurs when the peak
   voltage developed across the capacitance (Cc and/or Cr) exceeds 150 V at which voltage the
   two Zener diodes Z2 can conduct. The Zener diodes charge capacitor 962 and the resulting
30 voltage turns on the LED 994. When this indicator LED lights, the adjustment of the resistor
   10170440_idoex

                                                    35
   R4 is then turned in the opposite direction until the LED just extinguishes, and this
   accordingly sets the switch (Q1) to generate a 150 V ringing signal.
            FIG. 24 illustrates the function of the circuit of FIG. 23 by way of wave forms which
   occur during the operation of the circuit. Referring to this Figure, the wave form 996 is that of
 5 the AC supply voltage applied across the input terminals 968 and 970, the voltage being an
   alternating one having a first set of half cycles 998 of positive voltage alternating with a
   second set of half cycles 900 of negative voltage. The circuit of FIG. 23 is one which operates
   in a half wave mode with periods of ringing current being produced in the coils of the pipe
   unit only in response to each of the positive half cycles 998. The wave form 902 represents
10 the open and closed durations of the switch (Q1), and from this it will be noted that during
   each positive half cycle 998 of the supply voltage the switch (Ql) is closed during an initial
   portion of the half cycle and is opened at a time well in advance of the end of that half cycle
   (with the exact timing of this occurrence being adjustable by the adjustable resistor R4).
            The opening and closing of the switch (Q1) produces the current wave form indicated
15 at 904 in FIG. 24 which for each positive half cycle of the supply voltage is such that the
   current through the coils increases from zero during the initial portion of the half cycle, during
   which the switch (Q1) is closed, and then upon the opening of the switch (Ql) the current
   rings for a given period of time. The voltage appearing across the coils of the pipe unit is such
   as shown by the wave form 906 of FIG. 24, with the voltage upon the opening of the switch
20 (Q1) taking on a ringing shape having a maximum voltage many times greater than the
   voltage provided by the power supply 914.
            The frequency of the ringing currents produced in the coils and of the ringing voltages
   produced across the coils can be varied by varying the capacitance (Cc and/or Ct) appearing
   across the switch (Q1) and is preferably set to be a frequency within the range of 10 kHz to 80
25 kHz.
            Parameters of the apparatus of FIGS. 19-24, including nominal pipe size, arrangement
   of coils in terms of number of turns, gage and length, tuning capacitor capacitance and
   associated nominal power supply voltage are given in the fonn of a chart in FIG. 28.
            As mentioned above, the switching circuit illustrated and described in connection with
30 FIGS. 22, 23 and 24 is one which is operable to produce one period of ringing current and
   ringing voltage for each alternate half cycle of the applied supply voltage. However, if
   10170440_1doex

                                                    36
   wanted, the switching circuit can also be designed to operate in a full wave mode wherein a
   period of ringing current and of ringing voltage is produced for each half cycle of the supply
   voltage. As shown in FIG. 25, this can be accomplished by modifying the circuit of FIG. 22 to
   add a second switching circuit 908 which is identical to the first switching circuit 972 except
 5 for facing current wise and voltage wise in the opposite direction to the first circuit 972. That
   is, in FIG. 25 the first circuit 972 operates as described above during each positive half cycle
   of the applied voltage and the second circuit 908 operates in the same way during the negative
   half cycles of the applied voltage, and as a result, the number of periods of current and voltage
   ringing over a given period of time is doubled in comparison to the number of periods
10 produced in the same period of time by the circuit of FIG. 22.
            Also, as mentioned above, the number of coils used in the pipe unit 912 may be varied
   and if wanted, the pipe unit 912 may be made with only one coil without departing from the
   invention. FIGS. 26 and 27 relate to such a construction with FIG. 26 showing the pipe unit to
   have a single coil 910 wound on a bobbin 912 and surrounding the pipe 916. The switching
15 circuit used with the single coil pipe unit of FIG. 26 is illustrated in FIG. 27 and is generally
   similar to that of FIG. 23 except, that because of the single coil 910 producing no significant
   wiring capacitance, it is necessary to provide the tuning capacitor (Ct) across the first and
   second terminals 988 and 990 of the switch (Q1). Further, since the coil means is made up of
   the single coil 910 and located entirely on one side of the switch (Q1), it is unnecessary to
20 provide the isolation transformer 976 of FIG. 23 to establish a local ground for the
   components of the switching circuit.
            In still a further example, seen in Figure 18 means for co-mingling comprises a
   manifold 186 having input ports for a plurality of flows of positively-charged water from
   multiple means for generating positive charge 184 and an output port connected to valve 188
25 directing an output flow of water having positive charges therein to a blender for use in well
   fracturing operations. In a variety of examples, the majority of the suspended solids are less
   than about 100 microns. In some such examples substantially all the suspended solids are less
   than about 100 microns. In a more limited set of examples, the majority of the suspended
   solids are less than about 10 microns. In an even more limited set of examples, substantially
30 all the suspended solids are less than about 10 microns.
   10170440_1doex

                                                   37
            Referring now to Figures 16 and 17, a system is shown for controlling of water/liquid
   hydrocarbon interface in the three-phase separator, where in the system comprises: means for
   establishing a water/liquid hydrocarbon interface in a three-phase separator; means for
   measuring the water/liquid hydrocarbon interface in the three-phase separator, wherein a
 5 water/liquid hydrocarbon interface measurement signal results; means for comparing the
   water/liquid hydrocarbon interface measurement signal to a set point, wherein a comparison
   signal results; means for reducing the flow into the three-phase separator of hydrocarbon well
   fracture water when the comparison signal indicates the water/liquid hydrocarbon interface is
   above the set point and for increasing flow into the three-phase separator when the
10 comparison signal indicates the water/liquid hydrocarbon interface is below the set point,
   wherein the increasing flow comprises hydrocarbon well fracture water from and make-up
   water.
            In at least one example, best seen in Figures 14A and 14B, the means for establishing
   a water/liquid hydrocarbon interface comprises a diaphragm wier 140, and, ideally, the oil
15 water interface is established at the wier-bottom 140b. Controlled by flow meters and control
   valves seen in Figures 15 and 16.
       Referring now to Figure 17, a more detailed example is seen of the interface level control
   of a three phase, four material separator is provided. As seen in the Figure, inlet flow of flow
   back water to the separator is measured by turbine meter (FE- 101) / transmitter (FT- 101) and
20 controlled by flow control valve (FV-101) via flow controller (FIC-101). Make-up water inlet
   flow is measured by orifice plate (FE-103) / dP transmitter (FT-103) and controlled by flow
   control valve (FV-103) via flow controller (FIC-103). Water outflow is measured by orifice
   plate (FE-102) / dP transmitter (FT-102) and controlled by flow control valve (FV-102) via
   flow controller (FIC-102). The oil and water interface level in the separator is measure by
25 magnetic level gauge (LG-100) and also by continuous capacitance level transmitter (LT
   100). Both level devices are mounted on an external level bridle made up of 2 inch diameter
   pipe. The bridle comprises manual valves (HV-1, HV-2, HV-3, HV-4, HV-5, HV-6, HV-9,
   and HV-10) for maintenance on the bridle and attached instrumentation as will occur to those
   of skill in the art. HV- I and HV-2 are used to isolate the bridle from the process. HV-3 and
30 HV-4 are used to drain and vent the bridle respectively. HV-5 and HV-6 are used to isolate
   the level gauge from the process. HV-9 and HV-10 are used to isolate the level transmitter
   10170440_1doex

                                                    38
   chamber from the process.        Each instrument on the bridle is equipped with valves for
   maintenance. HV-7 and HV-8 are a part of the level gauge and are used to drain and vent the
   level gauge respectively. HV- 11 is a part of the level transmitter chamber and is used to drain
   the chamber.
 5          The water/liquid hydrocarbon interface (aka "oil/water interface") level in the
   separator is maintained by level controller (LIC-100) with cascade control to flow-back inlet
   flow controller (FIC-101), make-up water inlet flow controller (FIC-103) and water outflow
   controller (FIC-102).     Cascade control is accomplished by the level controller sending a
   remote set point (RSP) to the associated flow controllers and resetting their set points to
10 maintain interface level.
            All controllers are set for steady state condition to maintain normal liquid level
   (NLL=50%).       Set points for individual controllers are detennined by desired capacity and
   separator sizing.
            In one operational example, as the interface level increases, the level controller resets
15 the water outflow controller to throttle open while resetting the flow-back inlet flow controller
   to throttle back to maintain normal liquid level. An high liquid level (HLL=80%) alarm is
   triggered from an interface level transmitter analog signal to an operator, allowing the
   operator should take appropriate actions to regain control of the interface level or operating
   conditions.
20          As interface level decreases, the level controller resets the water outflow controller to
   throttle back while the resetting flow-back inlet flow controller to throttle open to maintain
   normal liquid level. If interface level decreases to a low liquid level (LLL=10%), the system
   places the make-up water flow controller on cascade control from the interface level
   controller by software switch LX- 100.
25          Referring now to Figure 29, a flow diagram of the use of an example of the invention
   in a hydrocarbon well having a well bore 301 with wellbore cemented casing 303 passing
   through fracture zones 340 that are isolated by packers 341. Coil tubing 309 is inserted by rig
   311 for fracture operations known to those of skill in the art. Perforations 356 are made into
   the shale layer 321. As part of the perforation and plugging operation, packers 341 are placed
30 in the borehole to isolate the different fracture zones 340. The coil tubing 309 is inserted into
   the targeted areas where fracturing is desired. A fluid, in this case largely comprising of
   10170440_I.doex

                                                    39
   water, is pumped through an ion generator 313. The ion generator 313 uses electromagnetic
   fields of influence described herein to generate ionization within the fluid. This now ionized
   fluid 353 is pumped via fracturing pumps 319 into the fracture zones 340.
            The ionized fluid 353 is pumped into the fissures 351 as depicted in Fig. 30. The
 5 ionized fluid 353 is pressurized sufficiently to grow and enlarge the fissure 351. The ionized
   fluid 353 is held at pressure for a predetermined amount of time. While at pressure, the
   ionized fluid 353 interacts with the shale layer 321, in this example layered calcite 350, to
   create layers of aragonite crystals 352. The fracture zone 340 is depressurized by coiled
   tubing 309 in this example. The fracture process can vary depending on the service provider
10 and the environment of the well. For instance, in an open hole application, a frack point
   system may be used instead of a perforate and plug system. These variations on the fracking
   processes possible in a shale formation are well known to a person of ordinary skill in the art.
            During the fracturing operation, fissures 351 within the shale layer 321 are created
   and/or enlarged. The fissures may be created by perforations, high pressure abrasion
15 techniques, or other methods known in the art. These fissures 351, located in the fracture zone
   340, expose layered calcite crystals 350 to the wellbore 301. When the layered calcite 350
   orthorhombic crystal is exposed to the ionized fluid 353, the crystalline insoluble particle
   structure of the layered calcite 350 is transformed into a layered aragonite 352, having an
   orthorhombic crystal line shape. This layered aragonite 352 is in suspension.
20          Ionized fluid 353 has the ability to avoid scaling encrustation, because the particles
   that cause the scaling are now in suspension instead of solution. By exposing the layered
   calcite 350 to ionized fluid 353, the particles form faster than if no ions are present. This
   phenomenon decreases the size of the particles, preventing them from being large enough to
   cause encrustations or scaling on the exposed surface of the fissures 351.
25          Ionized fluid 353, in this example ionized water, also eliminates the problem of non
   biological suspended particle growth because of its effect on avoiding surface nucleated
   precipitation. In addition, the effect of ionized water inhibits corrosion. Paracolloidal particles
   of calcium carbonate (CaCO3) are charged by ionic adsorption, causing them to decrease in
   size such that they are insoluble and remain in suspension. They are transformed into
30 suspended crystalline genns of orthorhombic aragonite of calcium carbonate and remain in
   suspension.
   10170440_idoex

                                                   40
            When the ionized fluid 353 in the fissures 351 at the target fracking zones 340 is
   depressurized with coiled tubing, in this example, the calcium carbonate suspended particles
   352, in this example, aragonite crystals, are removed from the fissures 351 with the flow back
   water or removed by the produced fluids from the formation.
 5          Ionized water has to ability to avoid the buildup of non-biological matter at the
   fissures 351. The water is ionized via electromagnetic fields of influence, using for example a
   Dolphin unit as the ion generator 313, utilizing periodic low frequency waveform, thereby
   causing the electroporation of the signal and amplification of the ringing signal by resonance.
   The low power, high frequency, EM waves eventually kill or rupture the membranes of the
10 microorganisms within the fluid being ionized. Encapsulation of organic debris also occurs as
   a result of these reactions. The micro-organisms cannot reproduce themselves to form biofilm
   which clog the fissures 351. The ionized fluid in this example, which is largely comprise of
   water, is generated by an ion generator 313 by exposing a fluid to electromagnetic fields of
   influence at a full wave in the frequency range of eighty kilohertz (80KHz) to three hundred
15 and sixty kilohertz (360 kHz). In other embodiments the frequency may simply be higher than
   eighty kilohertz (80 kHz). In this example, a frequency of three hundred and sixty kilohertz
   (360 kHz) can cause ringing in a fluid composed mostly of water. In other words, the natural
   frequency of the fluid is being excited. Other fluids which have different natural frequencies
   than water may be excited at those other natural frequencies. The composition of the fluid will
20 determine which frequency the ion generator should operate the electromagnetic fields of
   influence. A frequency greater than a full wave at eighty kilohertz (80 kHz) may have the
   intended effect of ionizing the fluid and minimizing the present of biological organism in the
   fluid.
                 When an excess of water-borne positive ions enters a fissure 351 the positively
25 charged ions have a phsio-chemical effect on the shale's layered calcite 350 deposits. This
   mineralization alters the crystalline structure of the encrustations that have been deposited
   within that matrix. The preferred polymorph of calcium carbonate (CaCO3) is called layered
   calcite 350 (rhombohedral) while others polymorphs are called aragonite (orthorhombic), and
   valerite (hexagonal). Ionizing water via pulsed power at high frequencies incorporates a
30 continuously varying induced electric field driven by a specific low frequency AC waveform
   and a periodic pulsed signal with a specific range of mid-to-high frequencies.
   10170440_1doex

                                                  41
            The low frequency AC waveform affects the method of solid precipitation nucleation
   and the mode of solid precipitation crystal growth. In this way such growth results in the
   precipitation but does not form on surfaces but forms in bulk solution, using microscopic
   suspended particulate, both inorganic and organic, as seed surfaces for nucleation and particle
 5 growth. In fracturing water calcium carbonate is the primary crystalline solid precipitated in
   water, and is usually a surface-nucleating scale. When exposing the fissures 351 to ionized
   fluid 353, the calcium carbonate precipitate incorporates into itself other cations in solution
   including magnesium, silicon, aluminum, iron and is converted into a suspended particle
   together with other constituents.
10          The changes in crystal nucleation kinetics, together with the resulting aragonite
   structure, avoids the formation of surface scale and puts the crystalline structures        into
   suspension as individual or coalesced particles. A difference in the relative value of the
   electromotive forces, between the higher relative positive calcium values and the lower
   radical values, drives the conversion from scale into suspended particles. The positively
15 charged ionized water makes this selective change possible on the layered calcite formations
   surfaces when exposed by the shaped charges in subsurface shale formations. The effect is the
   same for both hard and soft shale.
            In another example, the calcium carbonate scale layers are physically opened up by
   the shaped charges exploding into the well bore before the pressurized water carrying positive
20 ions are forced into the fissures 351. The fissures 351 are pressurized with ionized fluid 353,
   thereby conveying positive ions to the exposed fissures 351. The ionized fluid 353 is allowed
   to remain in the fracture zone 340 for a few days. After period of time the pressurized ionized
   water is depressurized by coiled tubing 309 and the released hydrocarbons, suspended
   particles 352, proppant plus other materials that a person well known in the art might expect
25 are carried out of the fissures 351 by the flow back and produced water from the wellbore.
   While in these fissures 351, the positive ions in, for this example water, selectively interact
   with the layered calcite and change their crystalline structure from calcite (rhombohedral) into
   the preferred aragonite (orthorhombic) polymorph crystal form of suspended particle which
   the flow back water removes from the fissures 351.
30          The depressurization removes layers of encrustations or scale, depicted here as layers
   of suspended particles 352, in the fissures 351 in a layered fashion and opens up the channels
   10170440_1doex

                                                    42
   by permitting a faster rate of gaseous and liquid hydrocarbons to be carried by the water flow
   up to the surface. This removes bottom hole pressure of the fissures, in a layered fashion,
   permits a greater rate of hydrocarbon flow to be achieved initially and for a longer period of
   time than would otherwise be possible. Calcium carbonate in solution exists as colloidal
 5 particles typically in the range of 0.01-100um, each one having an overall electric charge
   known as the zeta potential. The magnitude of this potential is the force by which each
   particle repels the force of like charge. This force must be large enough to overcome the force
   of particles in approaching each other, so that Van der Waals forces bring the particles
   together or coalesce.
10          The positive ions are carried in water together with the magnetic and electric fields
   and interact with a resultant zeta force generated in a direction perpendicular to the plane
   formed by the magnetic and electric field vectors. This is called the zeta principal as depicted
   in Fig. 3 1. This zeta force acts on the current carrying entity, the ion and slows down the
   suspended particles by interaction. Positively charged particles will move in a direction in
15 accord with the Right Hand Rule, where the electrical and magnetic fields are represented by
   the fingers and the zeta force by the thumb. The negatively charged particles will move in the
   opposite direction.
            The result of these zeta forces on the ions is that, in general, positively charged ions
   like calcium and magnesium and negatively charged ions like carbonate and sulfate are
20 directed toward each other with increased velocity. The increased velocity results in an
   increase in the number of collisions between the particles, with the result being the formation
   of insoluble particulate matter. Once a precipitate is formed, it serves as a foundation for the
   further growth of the crystalline structure or polymorph of aragonite or orthorhombic, thereby
   creating the particles in suspension. Fig. 31 illustrates the zeta principle and illustrates the
25 Zeta Potential Effect on suspended particles. Fig. 31 diagrams the positioning of fields and
   force.
            The magnitude of this Zeta Potential defines the force by which each particle repels
   particles of like charge. This zeta potential force is used to overcome the particles to approach
   each other so that the Van der Waals forces will brings the particles together and achieve
30 continued growth. The induced resonating electromagnetic fields produced by the pulsed
   10170440_1doex

                                                    43
   power ion generators 313, thereby reducing the zeta potential and allowing the Van der Waals
   forces to promote particle growth.
            Achieving the desired effect of the zeta potential by the pulsed power signal is shown
   in Figure 31. Zeta potential is the particle effect that prefers one polymorph to another. This is
 5 accomplished by preventing one polymorph from growing and until the other polymorph
   reaches its saturation limit. The growing of a crystalline form that uses suspended particles as
   nucleation seeds in bulk solution also facilitates the incorporation of microbes into the
   suspended precipitates. This effect is called encapsulation.
            The periodic pulsed signal from the ion generator 313 to the water being ionized has a
10 micro/physical and chemical effect on the cell membranes, which is called electroporation or
   the chemical puncturing or rupturing of the cells which kills the micro-organisms. The pulsing
   signal uses the physical principle of resonating frequencies, also referred to as harmonic
   frequencies or ringing frequencies, to amplify the energy that is needed to ionize the fluid
   with relatively low power levels.
15          Ionized fluid 353 also has the ability to prevent the clogging of the fissures 351 with
   particles by flocculation. Ionized water in turn also reduces the problem of clogging due to
   avoiding surface nucleated precipitation. As a result of these interactions the rate of
   hydrocarbon flow will be faster from the bottom hole pressure. This will also extend the life
   of a hydrocarbon well for a longer period of time and increase the percentage of recoverable
20 reserves from a given shale formation. This process permits a greater quantity of
   hydrocarbons to be extracted at faster rate of flow for both gases and liquids.
            In another example, the techniques described above can be used in a reentry operation
   for a well. A wellsite that has been perforated and fracked previously can be reentered at a
   later date in order to boost its production levels. In that case the ionized fluid 353 would be
25 introduced to a shale layer 321 by way of coiled tubing 309 in a typical cracking reentry
   operation. A perforation gun may be run into the well to make perforations 356 at new
   locations. Packers 341 would be put into place in order to seal off new fracture zones 340.
   Then ionized fluid 353, comprising ionized water and proppants, would be pumped down into
   the formation via fracture pumps 319. The ionized fluid 353 is then pressurized in order to
30 create and enlarge the fissures 351 that resulted from the perforation 356. Layers of suspended
   particles 352 would result for the exposure of ionized fluid 353 to the fissures 351. After
   10170440_1doex

                                                 44
   maintaining the pressure in the fracture zone 340 of interest, the pressure would be relieved,
   in this case by using coiled tubing to compromise one or more of the packers 341. The relief
   of pressure would force the suspended particles 352 out of the fissures 351. Such a reentry job
   would increase the production at an already producing well and increase the overall life of the
 5 well.
            It should be kept in mind that the previously described embodiments are only
   presented by way of example and should not be construed as limiting the inventive concept to
   any particular physical configuration. Changes will occur to those of skill in the art from the
   present description without departing from the spirit and the scope of this invention. Each
10 element or step recited in any of the following claims is to be understood as including to all
   equivalent elements or steps. The claims cover the invention as broadly as legally possible in
   whatever form it may be utilized. Equivalents to the inventions described in the claims are
   also intended to be within the fair scope of the claims. All patents, patent applications, and
   other documents identified herein are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.
15
   10170440_1doex

                                                   45
   What is claimed is:
   I.       A system to enhance the recovery of hydrocarbons from a subterranean formation
   comprising hydrocarbon bearing shale comprising calcite having fissures therein, for use at a
 5 well penetrating the formation, the system comprising:
            imparting positively charged ions into aqueous fluid at the well with an apparatus for
   treating liquid with electromagnetic flux powered by a source of alternating current electrical
   power wherein a set of half cycles of positive voltage alternate with a set of half cycles of
   negative voltage and a ringing current switching circuit operates at a frequency exposing the
10 fluid to electromagnetic fields of influence at a frequency higher than eighty kilohertz
   (80 kfHz);
            introducing the fluid comprising positively charged ions into at least some of the
   fissures;
            allowing said ions to transform some calcite crystals comprising the shale along the
15 fissures into aragonite crystals such that some aragonite crystals become suspended in the
   fluid;
            removing some of the fluid suspending the aragonite crystals from the formation;
            separating out at the well aqueous fluid from the aragonite crystals and any other
   particulate materials and hydrocarbons in said removed fluid from the formation;
20          further imparting positively charged ions into said separated aqueous fluid at the well
   with the apparatus for treating liquid with electromagnetic flux;
            introducing again fluid comprising positively charged ions into at least some of the
   fissures;
   10170440_1doex

                                                 46
            allowing said ions to transform some calcite crystals comprising the shale along the
   fissures into aragonite crystals such that some aragonite crystals become suspended in the
   fluid; and
            again removing some of the fluid suspending aragonite crystals from the formation;
 5          wherein each removal of aragonite crystals opens or expands the fissures and
   improves the permeability of the formation allowing an enhanced quantity and rate of
   hydrocarbon production from the formation; and
            wherein the fluid remaining in the formation continues to transform some further
   calcite crystals comprising the shale along the fissures into aragonite crystals such that more
10 aragonite becomes suspended in the fluid, and thereafter some of said remaining fluid
   suspending the aragonite is removed from the formation thereby further improving or
   sustaining the permeability of the formation.
   2.       The system of claim I wherein the apparatus for treating liquid with electromagnetic
15 flux exposes the aqueous liquid to electromagnetic fields of influence at a full wave in the
   frequency range of eighty kilohertz (80 kHz) to three hundred and sixty kilohertz (360 kHz).
   3.       The system of claim 1 wherein at least some of the fissures were created by fracturing
   the formation and the aqueous fluid was used in the fracturing.
20
   4.       The system of claim 1 wherein the electromagnetic field of influence is pulsed at a full
   wave of up to three hundred and sixty times per second.
   10170440_1doex

                                            47
5.       The system of claim 1 wherein the electromagnetic field of influence is pulsed at a
half wave of up to one hundred eighty kHz.
10170440_1doex

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
