                         ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
A polymer composition comprising star macromolecules is provided. Each star
macromolecule has a core and five or more arms, wherein the number of arms within a
star macromolecule varies across the composition of star molecules. The arms on a star
are covalently attached to the core of the star; each arm comprises one or more
(co)polymer segments; and at least one arm and/or at least one segment exhibits a
different solubility from at least one other arm or one other segment, respectively, in a
reference liquid of interest.

     STAR MACROMOLECULES FOR PERSONAL AND HOME CARE
                CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. Application No.
12/926,143, filed October 27, 2010, which is further a continuation-in-part of U.S.
Application No. 12/799,411, filed April 23, 2010, which itself claims further priority
from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/214,397, filed April 23, 2009. All of the
foregoing related applications, in their entirety, are incorporated by reference herein.
                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      The present invention relates to multi-arm star macromolecules which are used
as rheology modifiers, including use in the cosmetic, personal care and home care
compositions.
                            BACKGROUND AND PRIOR ART
[0003]      Most personal care products on the market contain many types of polymers
that vary by structure, chemistry, and raw material source (synthetic or natural) that are
combined to provide products with many different desired functions. One class of
polymer additives is targeted at altering or modifying the rheological properties of the
product that are very important for consumer appeal. Often, additives that provide
sufficient viscosity are needed, especially for those formulations where the viscosity
without additives is close to that of the pure solvent (water). However, merely increasing
viscosity is not sufficient, and in reality, the modifiers should be selected to provide
certain desired rheological properties for the formulation that depend on its nature, the
mode of delivery, type of flow, and the aesthetic appeal of final application. Typically,
low molecular weight surfactants are used to modify rheological properties but they have
to be used at large concentrations. Resulting in relatively high cost, and an adverse impact
on the environment (e.g., water pollution).
[0004]      The thickeners used in cosmetic and body care preparations have to meet
stringent requirements. First and foremost, they have to show high compatibility and also
-if possible--biodegradability so that many substances have to be ruled out from the outset
for use in cosmetics. In addition, they should be universally useable in aqueous,
emulsoidal, alcoholic and oil-containing bases, be readily processable and lead to a
                                                 1

rheology which enables the product to be easily applied so that the preparations can be
removed and distributed under clean and simple conditions.
[0005]       Thickeners that are designed molecular level to provide the desired properties
would be expected to be compatible with many other auxiliaries, more particularly with
salts and surfactants. The thickener itself and the other auxiliaries should also lend
themselves to ready incorporation into the formulation. The thickened preparations are
also expected to show stable rheology and an unchanging physical and chemical quality
even in the event of long-term storage and changes in pH and temperature. Finally, the
thickeners should be inexpensive to produce without causing significant environmental
pollution.
[0006]       In view of this complex requirement profile, it is clear why, even today, there
is still a demand for new thickeners in the cosmetics field.
                             SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007]       Accordingly, in one aspect the invention provides a polymer composition
comprising star macromolecules, each star macromolecule having a core and five or more
arms, wherein the number of arms within a star macromolecule varies across the
composition of star molecules; and the arms on a star are covalently attached to the core
of the star; each arm comprises one or more (co)polymer segments; and at least one arm
and/or at least one segment exhibits a different solubility from at least one other arm or
one other segment, respectively, in a reference liquid of interest.
[0008]       The use of the polymer composition in personal care products and home care
products is also provided.
[0009]       In one aspect of the invention, there is a process of forming a mikto star
macromolecule comprising:
i) creating a reaction mixture comprising a plurality of first polymeric segments having an
ATRP-functional terminal group and a plurality of second monomers, wherein at least a
portion of the first polymeric segments are formed by polymerizing a plurality of first
monomers, non-limiting examples of first monomers include hydrophobic monomers;
ii) forming a second polymeric segment extending from said first polymeric segment by
activating the ATRP-functional terminal group on said first polymeric segment to initiate
polymerization of a portion of the second monomers, to form a plurality of block
copolymeric arms;
                                                2

iii) during the polymerization of the second monomers, introducing a plurality of second
monomer initiators having an ATRP functional terminal group into the reaction mixture;
iv) activating the ATRP-functional terminal group on said second monomer initiator to
initiate polymerization of a second portion of the second monomer, to form a plurality of
homopolymeric arms; and
v) crosslinking at least a portion of the block copolymeric arms and at least a portion of
the homopolymeric arms to form at least one mikto star macromolecule.
[0010]       In one aspect of the invention, there is a star macromolecule that forms a gel
when dissolved in water at a concentration of at least 0.2 wt.% and is formed by:
i) creating a reaction mixture comprising a plurality of first polymeric segments having
an ATRP-functional terminal group and a plurality of second monomers, wherein at least
a portion of the first polymeric segments are formed by polymerizing a plurality of first
monomers;
ii) forming a second polymeric segment extending from said first polymeric segment by
activating the ATRP-functional terminal group on said first polymeric segment to initiate
polymerization of a portion of the second monomers, to form a plurality of block
copolymeric arms;
iii) during the polymerization of the second monomers, introducing a plurality of second
monomer initiators having an ATRP functional terminal group into the reaction mixture;
iv) activating the ATRP-functional terminal group on said second monomer initiator to
initiate polymerization of a second portion of the second monomer, to form a plurality of
homopolymeric arms; and
v) crosslinking at least a portion of the block copolymeric arms and at least a portion of
the homopolymeric arms;
wherein:
a) the gel has a dynamic viscosity of at least 20,000 cP; and
b) the star macromolecule has a molecular weight of 150,000 g/mol and 600,000 g/mol.
[0011]       In one aspect of the invention, there is a star macromolecule polymer
composition comprising one or more star macromolecules prepared by an improved,
efficient arm-first living-controlled radical polymerization method, wherein the one or
more star macromolecules are represented by Formula X:
                         Formula X       [(P 1)qi-(P 2 )q2]t-Core-[(P3)q3]r
wherein:
                                                 3

Core     represents a crosslinked polymeric segment;
P1       represents a hydrophobic homopolymeric segment comprised of repeat units of
monomeric residues of polymerized hydrophobic monomers;
P2       represents a hydrophilic homopolymeric segment comprised of repeat units of
monomeric residues of polymerized hydrophilic monomers;
P3       represents a hydrophilic homopolymeric segment comprised of repeat units of
monomeric residues of polymerized hydrophilic monomers;
qI       represents the number of repeat units in P1 and has a value between 1 and 50;
q2       represents the number of repeat units in P2 and has a value between 30 and 500;
q3       represents the number of repeat units in P3 and has a value between 30 and 500;
r        represents the number of homopolymeric arms covalently attached to the Core;
t        represents the number of copolymeric arms covalently attached to the Core; and
wherein the molar ratio of r to t is in the range of between 20:1 and 2:1.
[0012]        In one aspect of the invention, there is a star macromolecule having a
molecular weight of between 150,000 g/mol and 600,000 g/mol that forms a clear
homogeneous gel when dissolved in water at a concentration of at least 0.2 wt.%
wherein the gel has:
i) a dynamic viscosity of at least 20,000 cP;
ii) a salt-induced break value of at least 60%;
iii) a pH-induced break value of at least 80%;
iv) a shear-thinning value of at least 10; and/or
v) an emulsion value of >12 hours.
[0013]        In one aspect of the invention, there is a clear homogeneous gel, comprising a
star macromolecule having a molecular weight of between 150,000 g/mol and 600,000
g/mol, comprises the following properties:
i) a dynamic viscosity of at least 20,000 cP;
ii) a salt-induced break value of at least 60%;
iii) a pH-induced break value of at least 80%;
iv) a shear-thinning value of at least 10; and/or
v) an emulsion value of >12 hours;
wherein the clear homogeneous gel is formed when the star macromolecule is dissolved
in water at a concentration of at least 0.2 wt.%.
[0014]        In one aspect of the invention, there is an emulsifier-free emulsion comprising:
a water-soluble star macromolecule having:
                                                 4

i)   molecular weight of at least 150,000 g/mol; and
ii) a dynamic viscosity of at least 20,000 cP at a concentration of 0.4 wt.%.
[0015]       In one aspect of the invention, there is an emulsion comprising:
a water-soluble star macromolecule having:
i) a molecular weight of at least 150,000 g/mol; and
ii) a dynamic viscosity of at least 20,000 cP at a concentration of 0.4 wt.%.
[0016]       In one aspect of the invention, there is a thickening agent that forms a clear
homogeneous gel when dissolved in water at a concentration of at least 0.2 wt.%, wherein
the gel has:
i) a dynamic viscosity of at least 20,000 cP;
ii) a salt-induced break value of at least 60%;
iii) a pH-induced break value of at least 80%;
iv) a shear-thinning value of at least 10; and/or
v) an emulsion value of greater than 12 hours.
[0017]       In one aspect of the invention, the star macromolecule, emulsfier, gel,
emusilfier-free emulsion, emulsion and/or thickening agent, including those formed by
the one-pot process, ATRP, CRP, and/or combinations of one or more of these processes,
may be used to provide a certain level of control over viscosity and consistency factors in
many aqueous and oil based systems including, for example, water- and solvent-based
coating compositions, paints, inks, antifoaming agents, antifreeze substances, corrosion
inhibitors, detergents, oil-well drilling-fluid rheology modifiers, additives to improve
water flooding during enhanced oil recovery, dental impression materials, cosmetic and
personal care applications including hair styling, hair sprays, mousses, hair gels, hair
conditioners, shampoos, bath preparations, cosmetic creams, cosmetic gels, lotions,
ointments, deodorants, powders, skin cleansers, skin conditioners, skin emollients, skin
moisturizers, skin wipes, sunscreens, shaving preparations, and fabric softeners.
[0018]       In one aspect of the invention, there is a macromolecule, comprising: a
plurality of arms comprising at least two types of arms, wherein a first-arm-type extends
beyond a second-arm-type and said first-arm-type has a hydrophobic segment on its distal
end, wherein at least a portion of the hydrophobic segment may extend beyond the length
of the second-arm-types either by the size of the monomeric segment or segments (which
may be varied by length of monomeric residue, degree of polymerization, and/or both) for
which the hydrophobic segment is attached. Recognizing that the "length" of an arm or
segment and the "extending beyond" limitation may be theoretical, meaning that while it
                                                5

is not emperically measured it is understood to "extend beyond" and/or have a longer
"length"relative to the length of the second-arm-type if the degree of polymerization is
greater for monomeric residues of the same type or of the same theoretical length.
[0019]       In one aspect of the invention, there is a star macromolecule, comprising: a
plurality of arms comprising at least two types of arms, wherein the degree of
polymerization of a first-arm-type is greater than the degree of polymerization of a
second-arm-type, and wherein said first-arm-type has a distal end portion that is
hydrophobic. In another aspect of the invention, this star macromolecule may be formed
by first forming or obtaining the hydrophobic portion and then forming the remaining
portion of the first-arm-type from the end of the hydrophobic portion and the second-arm
type in a one-pot synthesis wherein the poylmerization of the second portion of the first
arm-type is commenced prior to the initialization of the second-arm-type but there is at
least some point wherein portions, e.g., substantial portions, of the first-arm-type and
second-arm-type are being polymerically extended simultaneously.
[0020]       In one aspect of the invention, there is an oil-soluble star macromolecule,
comprising: a plurality of different arms comprising at least two types of arms, wherein a
first-arm-type extends beyond a second-arm-type and said first-arm-type has a
hydrophilic segment on its distal end.
[0021]       In one aspect of the invention, there is an oil-soluble star macromolecule,
comprising: a plurality of arms comprising at least two types of arms, wherein the degree
of polymerization of a first-arm-type is greater than the degree of polymerization of a
second-arm-type, and wherein said first-arm-type has a hydrophilic segment on its distal
end.
[0022]       In one aspect of the invention, there is a star macromolecule, comprising: a
plurality of arms comprising at least two types of arms, wherein the degree of
polymerization of a first-arm-type is greater than the degree of polymerization of a
second-arm-type, and wherein said first-arm-type has a distal end portion that is
hydrophobic and the proximal portion of the first-arm-type and second-arm-type are the
same with the only difference between the first-arm-type and the second-arm-type being
that the first-arm-type has a hydrophobic portion on its distal end. In another aspect of
the invention, this star macromolecule may be formed by first forming or obtaining the
hydrophobic portion and then forming the remaining portion of the first-arm-type from
the end of the hydrophobic portion and the second-arm-type simultaneously in a one-pot
synthesis.
                                                6

[0023]      In an aspect of the invention, the star macromolecules may have an HLM of
greater than 0.85, for example greater than 0.87. or 0.9 or 0.93 or 0.95 or 0.97 or 0.98.
[0024]      In an aspect of the invention, the star macromolecules may have a calculated
HLM of greater than 0.85, for example greater than 0.87. or 0.9 or 0.93 or 0.95 or 0.97 or
0.98 and a viscosity of greater than 60,000 cP at a pH between 7 to 10.5 and a molecular
weight of between 200,000 g/mol and 550,000 g/mol and a shear-thinning value of at
least 10 and, optionally, a salt-induced break value of at least 60%.
                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0025]      The features and advantages of the present invention may be better understood
by reference to the accompanying Figures, in which:
[0026]      Figure 1: Illustration of the structure of a segmented homo-arm star
macromolecule and two different types of mikto-arm star macromolecules.
[0027]      Figure 2: GPC curve for the polystyrene macroinitiator formed in step 1 of the
synthesis of an exemplary (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule.
[0028]      Figure 3: GPC curves for the polystyrene macroinitiator formed in step 1 of
the synthesis of an exemplary (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule and GPC curve for block
copolymer formed after chain extension with tBA in step 2 of the synthesis.
[0029]      Figure 4: GPC curves of the PSt-b-tBA block copolymer and the star
macromolecule formed after core formation reaction is step 3 of the formation of an
exemplary (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule.
[0030]      Figure 5: Image showing the thickening properties of (PSt-b-PAA) star
macromolecule.
[0031]      Figure 6: Viscosity of aqueous solution of (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule
vs. shear rate.
[0032]      Figure 7: Viscosity of aqueous solution of (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule
vs. concentration.
[0033]      Figure 8: Viscosity of an aqueous solution and a water/windex (1/1 v/v)
solution of (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule vs. shear rate.
[0034]      Figure 9: Viscosity of an aqueous solution and a water/windex (1/1 v/v)
solution of Carbopol EDT 2020 vs. shear rate.
[0035]      Figure 10: GPC Curves for preparation of the precursor to a PAA star. Solid
line PtBA M,    = 18,900 PDI=1.14; Dashed line (PtBA)x star with Mn,app 112,600
PDI=1.36
                                                7

[0036]      Figure 11: Viscosity of aqueous solution of (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule
and (PAA) star macromolecule vs. shear rate.
[0037]      Figure 12: Images demonstrating the emulsifying properties of (PSt-b-PAA)
star macromolecule.
[0038]      Figure 13: Synthesis of [(PSt-b-PtBA) / (PtBA)] star macromolecule using
arm-first method.
[0039]      Figure 14: GPC curves for C 18-PtBA arm star macromolecule, Solid line C18
PtBA arm with M, =19,200 PDI=1.16; dashed line (C 18-PtBA)x star macromolecule
Mn,app =  95,600 PDI=1.48.
[0040]      Figure 15. GPC curves for C 12 -PtBA arm star macromolecule, Solid Line C 12
PtBA M, =17,500 PDI=1.22; Dashed line (C 12-PtBA)x Mn,app 113,900 PDI=1.53.
[0041]      Figure 16: is a graph comparing viscosity of Advantomer and Carbopol ETD
2020 at varying thickening agent weight %.
[0042]      Figure 17: is a graph comparing viscosity of Advantomer and Carbopol ETD
2020 at varying shear rates.
[0043]      Figure 18: is a graph comparing viscosity of Advantomer and Carbopol ETD
2020 at varying NaCl weight%.
[0044]      Figure 19: is a graph comparing viscosity of Advantomer and Carbopol ETD
2020 at varying pH.
[0045]      Figure 20: is a graph comparing viscosity of Advantomer and Carbopol ETD
2020 at varying H 2 0 2 weight %.
[0046]      Figure 21: is a graph comparing viscosity of Advantomer and Carbopol ETD
2020 at varying temperatures.
[0047]      Figure 22: is a graph comparing viscosity of Advantomer and Carbopol ETD
2020 at varying NaCl weight%.
[0048]      Figure 23: GPC curves for the reaction product resulting from step 2 of
Example 9.
[0049]      Figure 24: GPC curves for the reaction prodcut resulting from step 3 of
example 9.
                  DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0050]      The term "solubility" or "soluble" is understood to mean that when a
component is mixed into a solvent and tested, at STP in a 1 cm cuvette, it has a light
                                              8

transmittance value, at a wavelength at or around a UV/Vis minimum wavelength for the
mixture, of at least 40%, for example, at least 50%, 70%, 85%, or at least 95%.
[0051]       The term "clear" as is used to describe a homogenous gel or homogenous
solution is understood to mean that when the gel or solution is tested, at STP in a 1 cm
cuvette, it has a light transmittance value, at a wavelength at or around a UV/Vis
minimum wavelength for the gel or solution, of at least 40%, for example, at least 50%,
70%, 85%, or at least 95%.
[0052]       The term "water-soluble monomer" is understood to mean a monomer having
at least about 10 wt. % solubility in water at STP. For example, a water soluble monomer
may have at least 15 wt.%, 20 wt.%, 25 wt. %, or at least 30 wt. % solubility in water at
STP.
[0053]       The term "water-insoluble monomer" is understood to mean a monomer
having less water solubility than a water soluble monomer, for example, less that about 5
wt.%, such as less than 1 wt.% or 0.5 wt.% solubility in water at STP.
[0054]       The term "water-soluble star macromolecule" is understood to mean a star
macromolecule that is soluble in water, pH adjusted if necessary to a pH of no greater
than 8 with sodium hydroxide, at a concentration of at least 5g/L, for example, between
8g/L to 100g/L, such as, at least 10g/L, 12g/L, 15g/L, or at least 20g/L. For example, a
water-soluble star macromolecule having an aqueous solubility of at least 1Og/L may
include the introduction of at least 1Og of the star macromolecule into approximately 1 L
of water, neutralizing the mixture, if necessary, by adjusting the pH of the resulting
mixture to about pH 8 (e.g., with the addition of base, such as sodium hydroxide), and
vigorously stirring at a temperature no greater than 100 C for no more than about 60
minutes, to achieve dissolution of the star macromolecule, and testing the solubility at
STP.
[0055]       The term "oil-soluble star macromolecule" is understood to mean a star
macromolecule that is soluble in mineral oil at a concentration of at least 5g/L, for
example, between 8g/L to 100g/L, such as, at least lOg/L, 12g/L, 15g/L, or at least 20g/L
of mineral oil. For example, an oil-soluble star macromolecule having an oil solubility of
at least 1Og/L may include the introduction of at least 1Og of the star macromolecule into
approximately 1 L of mineral oil, and vigorously stirring at a temperature no greater than
100 0 C for no more than about 60 minutes, to achieve dissolution of the star
macromolecule, and testing the solubility at STP.
                                                9

[0056]      The term "hydrophilic" is understood to mean, in relation to a material, such
as a polymeric arm, or a polymeric segment of a polymeric arm, that the material is water
soluble and comprises hydrophilic segments having an HLB equal to or greater than 8, for
example, an HLB equal to 16-20, or equal to or greater than 18, 19, or 19.5. In certain
embodiments, the hydrophilic segment may comprise at least 75 mol% of water-soluble
monomer residues, for example, between 80 mol% to 100 mol% or at least 85 mol%, 90
mol%, 95 mol%, or at least 97 mol% water-soluble monomer residues.
[0057]      The term "hydrophobic" is understood to mean, in relation to a material, such
as a polymeric arm, or a polymeric segment of a polymeric arm, that the material is water
insoluble and comprises hydrophobic segments having an HLB less than 8, for example,
an HLB less than 7. In certain embodiments, the hydrophobic segment may comprise at
least 75 mol% of water-insoluble monomer residues, for example, between 80 mol% to
100 mol% or at least 85 mol%, 90 mol%, 95 mol%, or at least 97 mol% water-insoluble
monomer residues.
[0058]      The term "monomer residue" or "monomeric residue" is understood to mean
the residue resulting from the polymerization of the corresponding monomer. For
example, a polymer derived from the polymerization of an acrylic acid monomer (or
derivatives thereof, such as acid protected derivatives of acrylic acid including but not
limited to methyl or t-butyl ester of acrylic acid), will provide polymeric segments,
identified as PAA, comprising repeat units of monomeric residues of acrylic acid, i.e.,
CH(CO 2 H)CH 2-". For example, a polymer derived from the polymerization of styrene
monomers will provide polymeric segments, identified as PS, comprising repeat units of
monomeric residues of styrene, i.e., "-CH(C6H5 )CH 2-." For example, a polymer derived
from the polymerization of monomeric divinylbenzene monomers will provide polymeric
segments comprising repeat units of monomeric residues of divinylbenzene, i.e.,       "
CH 2CH(C 6H5)CHCH 2-."
[0059]      The term "emulsifier" is understood to mean a component that comprises an
appreciable weight percent of an amphiphilic compound having a molecular weight of
less than 5,000 MW. Emulsifiers are usually linear organic compounds that contain both
hydrophobic portions (tails) and hydrophilic portions (heads), i.e., are amphiphilc.
Examples of emulsifiers include but are not limited to: alkyl benzenesulfonates,
alkanesulfonates, olefin sulfonates, alkylethersulfonates, glycerol ether sulfonates,
.alpha.-methyl ester sulfonates, sulfofatty acids, alkyl sulfates, fatty alcohol ether sulfates,
glycerol ether sulfates, hydroxy mixed ether sulfates, monoglyceride (ether) sulfates, fatty
                                               10

acid amide (ether) sulfates, mono- and dialkylsulfosuccinates, mono- and
dialkylsulfosuccinamates,sulfotriglycerides, ether carboxylic acids and salts thereof, fatty
acid isethionates, fatty acid sarcosinates, fatty acid taurides, acyl lactylates, acyl tartrates,
acyl glutamates, acyl aspartates, alkyl oligoglucoside sulfates, protein fatty acid
condensates (particularly wheat-based vegetable products) and alkyl (ether) phosphates,
alkylbetaines, alkylamidobetaines, aminopropionates, aminoglycinates,
imidazoliniumbetaines and sulfobetaines.
[0060]       The term "emulsifier-free" is understood to mean a composition or mixture
wherein the formulation is substantially deviod of any emulsifiers, for example less than
0.1 wt.% of emulsifier, relative to the total composition, or less than 0.05 wt.% of
emulsifier, relative to the total composition, or less than 0.01 wt.% of emulsifier, relative
to the total composition, or a formulation where there is no emulsifier.
[0061]       The term "STP" is understood to mean standard conditions for temperature
and pressure for experimental measurements, wherein the standard temperature is a
temperature of 25'C and the standard pressure is a pressure of 1 atm.
Structure of the Polymer Composition
[0062]       Multi-arm star macromolecules are shown schematically in Figure 1
[0063]       In one embodiment, the arms in a star macromolecule are comprised of two or
more (co)polymer segments selected to modify the rheology of the reference liquid of
interest. The star macromolecule structure is represented by the following formula [F
(M1)p 1 -(M2)p 2 ].-C wherein
    i. [F-(M1)p 1 -(M2)p2] represents an arm comprised of a segmented (co)polymer chain
       wherein each (co)polymer segment,
   ii. (M1)pI- and (M2)p 2- are compositionally distinct adjacent (co)polymer segments
       where each segment is comprised of one or more monomers with homo, random,
       gradient or block (co)polymer structure and where p l and p2 represent the degree
       of polymerization of each copolymer segment,
  iii. F- represents an optionally functional group or mixture of functional groups present
       on the arm chain-end,
  iv. (M1)pi is not soluble or not fully soluble in the reference liquid of interest,
   v. (M2)p 2 is soluble or mostly soluble in the reference liquid of interest,
                                                11

  vi. and C represents the crosslinked core of the star macromolecule which is comprised
       of crosslinker (Mx), crosslinker (Mx) and monomer (My), crosslinker (Mx) and
       (M2), or a mixture of (Mx), (My) and (M2), and
 vii. n represents the average number of arms covalently attached to the core of the star
       macromolecule.
[0064]       In another embodiment, the star macromolecule structure can be represented
by the following formula,
[F-(M1)pl-(M2)p2]n-C-[(M3)p3-F]m wherein
    i.  [F-(M1)p 1 -(M2)p2] represents an arm comprised of a segmented (co)polymer chain,
   ii. (M1)pI- and (M2)p 2- are compositionally distinct adjacent (co)polymer segments
       where each segment is comprised of one or more monomers with homo, random,
       gradient or block (co)polymer structure and where p l and p2 represent the degree
       of polymerization of each copolymer segment,
  iii. F- represents an optionally functional group or mixture of functional groups present
       on the arm chain-end,
  iv. (M1)pi is not soluble or not fully soluble in the reference liquid of interest,
   v. (M2)p 2 is soluble or mostly soluble in the reference liquid of interest,
  vi. and C represents the crosslinked core of the star macromolecule which is comprised
       of crosslinker (Mx), crosslinker (Mx) and monomer (My), crosslinker (Mx) and
       (M2), or a mixture of (Mx), (My) and (M2), and
 vii. n represents the average number of arms covalently attached to the core of the star
       macromolecule.
viii. (M3)p 3 is a (co)polymer segment which is comprised of one or more monomers with
       homo, random, gradient or block (co)polymer structure with a degree of
       polymerization p3 and
  ix. m is the number of (M3)p 3 (co)polymer arms covalently attached to the core,
   x. (M3)p 3 is soluble or mostly soluble in the reference liquid of interest and
  xi. M2 and M3 can be comprised of the same or different (co)monomers.
[0065]       In a further embodiment, polymer composition comprises star macromolecules
in which the structure of a star can be represented by the following formula,
[F-(M1)pi]s-C-(M3)p3-F]m wherein
    i. [F-(M1)p 1 -(M2)p2] represents an arm comprised of a segmented (co)polymer chain,
                                               12

   ii. (M1)pI- is a (co)polymer segment where each segment is comprised of one or more
       monomers with homo, random, gradient or block (co)polymer structure with a
       degree of polymerization p l,
  iii. F- represents an optionally functional group or mixture of functional groups present
       on the arm chain-end,
  iv. (M1),  1 is not soluble or not fully soluble in the reference liquid of interest,
   v. C represents the crosslinked core of the star macromolecule which is comprised of
       crosslinker (Mx), crosslinker (Mx) and monomer (My), crosslinker (Mx) and (M2),
       or a mixture of (Mx), (My) and (M2), and
  vi. (M3)p 3 is a (co)polymer segment which is comprised of one or more monomers with
       homo, random, gradient or block (co)polymer structure with a degree of
       polymerization p3 and
 vii. (M3)p 3 is soluble or mostly soluble in the reference liquid of interest and
viii. m is the number of (M3)p 3 (co)polymer arms covalently attached to the core, and
  ix. s is the average number of (M1)pi (co)polymer arms covalently attached to the core.
[0066]       In an embodiment, the polymer composition, the number of arms on any
particular star varies across the population of star macromolecules in each composition,
due to the synthetic process used for the synthesis of the composition. This process is
called "arm first" method and is described in details herein below. Due to variation in the
number of arms in star macromolecules, the number of arms n, m and s are referred as an
average number of arms.
[0067]       Star macromolecules with a single peak in the GPC curve with a
polydispersity index (PDI) above 1.0 and below 2.5 is preferred.
[0068]       As used herein, the term "reference liquid of interest" means the liquid to
which the polymer composition will be added. Suitable examples of reference liquids
include, but are not limited to, water, oil or mixture thereof or water with additives which
include but are not limited to; surfactants, oils, fats and waxes, emulsifiers, silicone
compounds, UV protectors, antioxidants, various water soluble substances, biogenic
agents, deodorants, odor absorbers, antiperspirants, and germ and enzyme inhibitors.
Such agents are disclosed in US patents 6,663,855 and US 7,318,929 and are herein
incorporated by reference to provide definitions for those terms.
[0069]       Arms of a star can possess the same composition or be different (e.g. star
macromolecule with formula (1) vs. (2) or (3), these star are shown in Figure 1). The
                                                13

difference can be in composition or molecular weight or both (e.g. different monomer
units M1, M2, M3 and/or different degree of polymerization pl, p2, p3).
[0070]      Term "(co)polymer" is defined as a polymer derived from two (or more)
monomeric species (monomer units)
[0071]      More preferred specific monomer units as a building blocks of M1, M2, M3
and My include those selected from protected and unprotected acrylic acid, methacrylic
acid, ethacrylic acid, methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, .alpha.-butyl acrylate, iso-butyl
acrylate, t-butyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, decyl acrylate, octyl acrylate, methyl
methacrylate, ethyl methacrylate, n-butyl methacrylate, iso-butyl methacrylate, t-butyl
methacrylate, 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate, decyl methacrylate, methyl ethacrylate, ethyl
ethacrylate, n-butyl ethacrylate, iso-butyl ethacrylate, t-butyl ethacrylate, 2-ethylhexyl
ethacrylate, decyl ethacrylate, 2,3-dihydroxypropyl acrylate, 2,3-dihydroxypropyl
methacrylate, 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate, 2-hydroxypropyl acrylate, hydroxypropyl
methacrylate, glyceryl monoacrylate, glyceryl monoethacrylate, glycidyl methacrylate,
glycidyl acrylate, acrylamide, methacrylamide, ethacrylamide, N-methyl acrylamide,
N,N-dimethyl acrylamide, N,N-dimethyl methacrylamide, N-ethyl acrylamide, N
isopropyl acrylamide, N-butyl acrylamide, N-t-butyl acrylamide, N,N-di-n-butyl
acrylamide, N,N-diethylacrylamide, N-octyl acrylamide, N-octadecyl acrylamide, N,N
diethylacrylamide, N-phenyl acrylamide, N-methyl methacrylamide, N-ethyl
methacrylamide, N-dodecyl methacrylamide, N,N-dimethylaminoethyl acrylamide,
quaternised N,N-dimethylaminoethyl acrylamide, N,N-dimethylaminoethyl
methacrylamide, quatemised N,N-dimethylaminoethyl methacrylamide, N,N
dimethylaminoethyl acrylate, N,N-dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate, quaternised N,N
dimethyl-aminoethyl acrylate, quaternised N,N-dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate, 2
hydroxyethyl acrylate, 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate, 2-hydroxyethyl ethacrylate, glyceryl
acrylate, 2-methoxyethyl acrylate, 2-methoxyethyl methacrylate, 2-methoxyethyl
ethacrylate, 2-ethoxyethyl acrylate, 2-ethoxyethyl methacrylate, 2-ethoxyethyl
ethacrylate, maleic acid, maleic anhydride and its half esters, fumaric acid, itaconic acid,
itaconic anhydride and its half esters, crotonic acid, angelic acid, diallyldimethyl
ammonium chloride, vinyl pyrrolidone vinyl imidazole, methyl vinyl ether, methyl vinyl
ketone, maleimide, vinyl pyridine, vinyl pyridine-N-oxide, vinyl furan, styrene sulphonic
acid and its salts, allyl alcohol, allyl citrate, allyl tartrate, vinyl acetate, vinyl alcohol,
vinyl caprolactam, vinyl acetamide, vinyl formamide and mixtures thereof.
                                                  14

[0072]      Even more preferred monomer units as a building parts of M1, M2, M3 and
My are those selected from methyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate,.methyl ethacrylate,
ethyl acrylate, ethyl methacrylate, ethyl ethacrylate, n-butyl acrylate,. n-butyl
methacrylate, n-butyl ethacrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate, 2
ethylhexyl ethacrylate, N-octyl acrylamide, 2-methoxyethyl acrylate, 2-hydroxyethyl
acrylate, N,N-dimethylaminoethyl acrylate, N,N-dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate,
acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, N-t-butylacrylamide, N-sec-butylacrylamide, N,N
dimethylacrylamide, N,N-dibutylacrylamide, N,N-dihydroxyethyllacrylamide 2
hydroxyethyl acrylate, 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate, benzyl acrylate, 4
butoxycarbonylphenyl acrylate, butyl acrylate, 4-cyanobutyl acrylate, cyclohexyl
acrylate, dodecyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, heptyl acrylate, iso-butyl acrylate, 3
methoxybutyl acrylate, 3-methoxypropyl acrylate, methyl acrylate, N-butyl acrylamide,
N,N-dibutyl acrylamide, ethyl acrylate, methoxyethyl acrylate, hydroxyethyl acrylate,
diethyleneglycolethyl acrylate, styrene (optionally substituted with one or more C.sub.1
C.sub. 12 straight or branched chain alkyl groups), alpha-methylstyrene, t-butylstyrene, p
methylstyrene, and mixtures thereof.
[0073]      Monomer units within the arms may be connected with C-C covalent bonds.
This is believed to make them hard to degrade so that the star macromolecule may
perform as efficient thickening agent in a harsh environment (very high/low pH or in the
presence of strong oxidizing agents).
[0074]      When "C" represents the crosslinked core of the star macromolecule it may be
comprised of crosslinker (Mx), crosslinker (Mx) and monomer (My), crosslinker (Mx)
and (M2), or a mixture of (Mx), (My) and (M2).
[0075]      Suitable crosslinkers (Mx) encompass all of the compounds which are
capable, under the polymerization conditions, of bringing about crosslinking. These
include but are not limited di-, tri-, tetra-functional (meth)acrylates, di-, tri- and tetra
functional styrenes and other multi- or poly-functional crosslinkers.
[0076]      Some examples of the crosslinking agents may include but are not limited to
1,2-divinylbenzene, 1,3-divinylbenzene and 1,4-divinylbenzene, 1,2-ethanediol
di(meth)acrylate, 1,3-propanediol di(meth)acrylate, 1,4butanediol di(meth)acrylate, 1,5
hexanediol di(meth)acrylate, divinylbenzene, ethyleneglycol di(meth)acrylate,
propyleneglycol di(meth)acrylate, butyleneglycol di(meth)acrylate, triethyleneglycol
di(meth)acrylate, polyethyleneglycol di(meth)acrylate, polypropyleneglycol
di(meth)acrylate, polybutyleneglycol di(meth)acrylate, and allyl(meth)acrylate, glycerol
                                                15

di(meth)acrylate, trimethylolpropane tri(meth)acrylate, pentaerythritol
tetra(meth)acrylate, allyl methacrylate, allyl acrylate.
[0077]       The terms 'mostly soluble', 'not fully soluble', and 'not soluble' are used to
describe the extent which a composition which is capable of being dissolved in a
reference liquid of interest.
[0078]       The term 'mostly soluble' is used to describe a composition which is capable
dissolves completely with exception of a slight cloudiness in the reference liquid of
interest. The term 'not fully soluble' is used to describe a composition which disperses
with a cloudiness in the reference liquid of interest. The term 'not soluble' is used to
describe a composition which does not disperse and remains as a solid in the reference
liquid of interest. A list of solvents and non-solvent for polymers can be found in
"Polymer Handbook,      4 th Ed." edited by Brandrup J.; Immergut, Edmund H.; Grulke, Eric
A.; Abe, Akihiro; Bloch, Daniel R., John Wiley & Sons: 2005.
[0079]       Multi-arm stars macromolecules are the preferred topology for an embodiment
of the present invention as they can adopt a globular shape wherein the inner segment,
(M2)p2 of each arm covalently attached to the core, can chain extend in a selected solvent
to attain a highly swollen stable structure. The dispersant medium can be water, oil or
mixture thereof. The degree of polymerization p2 of the segment (M2), should be higher
than that of p l of segment (M1) to attain a highly swollen stable structure. A star
macromolecule with p2 > (3 x p1) is more preferred.
[0080]       In one embodiment, a star macromolecule described with formula (2) and
shown in Figure 1B, comprising a fraction of segmented (co)polymer arms [F-(M1)pi
(M2)p2], the average number of arms, n, should be greater than two per star, preferentially
greater than three, and can comprise a mole fraction between 0.5 and 100% of the arms in
the average star macromolecule. The ratio of n to m is more preferably between 100 and
0.1.
[0081]       In one embodiment, in a star macromolecule described with formula (3) and
shown in Figure IC comprising a fraction of arms [F-(M1)p 1 ] the average number of
arms, o, should be greater than two per star, preferentially greater than three, and can
comprise a mole fraction between 0.5 and 100% of the arms in the average star
macromolecule. The ratio of o to m is more preferably between 100 and 0.1.
[0082]       An embodiment of the present invention can be exemplified by a multi-arm
star macromolecule wherein the average number of arms in the star macromolecule is
between 5 and 500, preferentially between 10 and 250.
                                                16

[0083]      In one embodiment, the star macromolecule has a core which contains
additional functionality and/or expanded free volume. 'Expended free volume' of the core
is defined as the core with lower crosslink density. The free volume in the core is
generated when during the crosslinking process crosslinker Mx with monomer M2 or My
is used. If M2 or My are monomers with functional groups, these groups will be
incorporated in the core.
[0084]      In one embodiment, the star macromolecule may store and release in
controlled rate the small molecules. 'Small molecules' are fragrances, UV absorbers,
vitamins, minerals, dyes, pigments, solvents, surfactants, metal ions, salts, oils, or drugs.
These small molecules can be stored inside the core of the star macromolecule and next
released. Each small molecule has some affinity to the core, is soluble in the core
environment. Higher affinity of the small molecule to the core will result in the lower rate
of release from star macromolecule. The affinity may be increased or decreased through
non-covalent forces including H-bonding, electrostatic, hydrophobic, coordination and
metal chelating interactions.
[0085]      In one embodiment, the star macromolecule displays shear thinning behavior.
'Shear thinning' is defined as is an effect where viscosity decreases with increasing rate
of shear stress. The extent of shear thinning behavior is characterized using a Brookfield
type viscometer where viscosities are measured under different shear rates.
[0086]      In one embodiment, the star macromolecule comprises a functional group
which exhibits H-bonding, coordination, hydrophobic, metal chelating and/or electrostatic
forces. "F" represents an optionally functional group or mixture of functional groups
present on the arm chain-end. Functional groups (F) encompass all of the compounds
capable of interacting through non-covalent forces including H-bonding, electrostatic,
hydrophobic, coordination and metal chelating.
[0087]       Some examples of F end groups capable of H-bonding include but are not
limited to modified bases adenine, thymine, guanine, cytosine, or derivatives thereof,
peptides etc. Some examples of endgroups capable of electrostatic interactions include
but are not limited to carboxylate, phosphate, sulfonate, secondary-, tertiary- and
quatemary-amines. Some examples of endgroups capable of hydrophobic interactions
include but are not limited to C1-C30 aliphatic groups, benzyl and aliphatic benzyl
groups, saturated and unsaturated hydrophobes. Some examples of endgroups capable of
coordination interactions include but are not limited to metal ions and/or metal ion
ligands. Some examples of endgroups capable of metal chelating interactions include
                                              17

derivatives of diethylenetriamine-N,N,N',N',N"-pentaacetic acid (DTA),
ethylenedinitrilotetraacetic acid (EDTA), or nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA).
[0088]      In one embodiment, the star macromolecule comprises a functional group F
which is designed to interact with small molecule surfactant micelles. 'Interacts with' is
defined as any intermolecular force between two molecules. These intermolecular forces
include electrostatic, hydrogen bonding, hydrophobic, steric, dipole-dipole, pi-pi, or other
intermolecular forces.
[0089]       Surfactants represent a class of molecules with a hydrophobic tail and a
hydrophilic head. Some examples of surfactants include but are not limited to linear
alkylbenzenesulfonate salts (LAS), alkyl ether sulfate salts (AEOS), alkylpolyglycosides
(APG), alcohol ethoxylates, fatty acid glucoamides, betaines, alpha-olefinsulfonate salts,
polysorbates, PEGs, alkylphenol ethoxylates, esterquats, imidizolium salts, diamido
quaternary ammonium salts, etc.
[0090]      In one embodiment, the star macromolecule arms comprise a (co)polymer
segment that exhibits an upper, or higher, critical solution temperature (UCST or HCST)
whereby the star macromolecule is soluble in a liquid at higher temperature, say above
44'C, then at the lower use temperature the outer shell polymer segments become
insoluble and self assemble to form a shear sensitive gel or in another embodiment the
invention the outer shell of the star macromolecule arms comprise a (co)polymer segment
that exhibits a lower critical solution temperature (LCST), say 5'C, whereby the star
macromolecule is soluble in a liquid at lower temperature then at the use temperature the
outer shell polymer segments become insoluble and self assemble to form a shear
sensitive gel. In the case of a LCST it is envisioned that a copolymer segment with an
LCST below 10 C, preferable below 5'C would be optimal. A non-limiting example
would be a copolymerization of BuMA and DMAEMA and preparation of copolymers
with designed LCST. A copolymer with 10% BuMA has a LCST close to 00 C and one
would use less BuMA or a less hydrophobic monomer such as MMA to increase the
LCST to ~5'C. Indeed the Tg of the segment of the star can be selected to allow
dissolution of the star in room temperature aqueous media.
[0091]      In one embodiment, a star macromolecule further comprise a personal care
and cosmetics formulation and/or product. Personal care and cosmetic products include
but are not limited to a shampoo, conditioner, hair lotion, tonic, hair spray, hair mousse,
hair gel, hair dyes, moisturizer, suntan lotion, color cosmetic, body lotion, hand cream,
baby skin-care product, facial cream, lipstick, mascara, blush, eyeliner, baby shampoo,
                                               18

baby moisturizer, baby lotion, shower gel, soap, shaving product, deodorant, bath cream,
body wash, serum, cream, solid, gel, lubricant, gelly, balm, tooth paste, whitening gel,
disposable towel, disposable wipe or ointment.
[0092]      In one embodiment a star macromolecule further comprise a home care
formulation and/or product. Home care products include but are not limited to a surface
cleaner, window cleaner, laundry detergent, toilet cleaner, fabric cleaner, fabric softener,
dish detergent, cleaning stick, stain stick, spray cleaners, sprayable formulations,
lubricant, disposable towel or disposable wipe.
[0093]      The polymer chains that comprise the arms are preferably provided with a
molecular mass of greater than or equal to 500 which can range up to 2,000,000. This
numbers correspond to p1, p2, p3 in the range of 5 up to 20,000 preferably in the range of
8 to 2,000.
[0094]      In one example, the star macromolecules comprising segmented copolymers
arms are directed at use in aqueous media. The stars comprise a crosslinked core, and
arms comprising of water soluble copolymer (M2)p2 and a hydrophobic (co)polymer
(M1)pi. Therefore in a in a non-limiting example the stars comprise a crosslinked core,
and arms comprising an water soluble (co)polymer (e.g. poly(acrylic acid), poly(2
hydroxyethyl acrylate), poly(N-isopropylacrylamide), poly(ethylene glycol) methacrylate,
quaternized poly(dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate), etc.) and a hydrophobic (co)polymer
(e.g. polystyrene or substituted polystyrenes, poly(alkyl(meth)acrylate), etc.) or a
hydrocarbon based segment. Suitable hydrocarbon based segments can comprise low
molecular weight a-olefin. Lower molecular weight a-olefins are commercially available
and higher molecular weight species can be prepared by telomerization of ethylene or
ethylene propylene mixtures. [Kaneyoshi, H.; Inoue, Y.; Matyjaszewski, K.
Macromolecules 2005, 38, 5425-5435.]
[0095]      In an embodiement, the polymer compositions can self assemble in solution to
provide a certain level of control over viscosity and consistency factors in many aqueous
and oil based systems where control over the rheology is a concern. Applications
include; water- and solvent-based coating compositions, paints, inks, antifoaming agents,
antifreeze substances, corrosion inhibitors, detergents, oil-well drilling-fluid rheology
modifiers, additives to improve water flooding during enhanced oil recovery, dental
impression materials, cosmetic and personal care applications including hair styling, hair
conditioners, shampoos, bath preparations, cosmetic creams, gels, lotions, ointments,
deodorants, powders, skin cleansers, skin conditioners, skin emollients, skin moisturizers,
                                               19

skin wipes, sunscreens, shaving preparations, and fabric softeners, with the rheology
modifier providing characteristics of high gel strength, highly shear thinning
characteristics, forms versatile low viscosity soluble concentrations, and synergistic
interactions with added agents to adjust their rheology profile to optimize properties such
as sedimentation, flow and leveling, sagging, spattering, etc.
[0096]       One non-limiting field of applications that can exemplify the utility of the
disclosed star macromolecules is cosmetic and personal care compositions such as hair
styling sprays, mousses, gels and shampoos, frequently contain resins, gums and adhesive
polymers to provide a variety of benefits, for example, film-forming ability, thickening,
sensory properties and hair shaping and setting. Polymers designed for rheological
control, as thickening agents, in such compositions generally focus on linear or graft
copolymers which contain various monomers in an alternating, random or block
configuration.
[0097]       Suitable hydrophobic monomers that may be used to form an arm or segment
of an arm, such as a polymeric segment of an arm, of a star macromolecule may include,
but is not limited to methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, n-butyl acrylate, iso-butyl acrylate, t
butyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, decyl acrylate, octyl acrylate; methyl methacrylate;
ethyl methacrylate; n-butyl methacrylate; iso-butyl methacrylate; t-butyl methacrylate; 2
ethylhexyl methacrylate; decyl methacrylate; methyl ethacrylate; ethyl ethacrylate; n
butyl ethacrylate; iso-butyl ethacrylate; t-butyl ethacrylate; 2-ethylhexyl ethacrylate;
decyl ethacrylate; 2,3-dihydroxypropyl acrylate; 2,3-dihydroxypropyl methacrylate; 2
hydroxypropyl acrylate; hydroxypropyl methacrylate; glycidyl methacrylate; glycidyl
acrylate, acrylamides, styrene; styrene optionally substituted with one or more C1 - C12
straight or branched chain alkyl groups; or alkylacrylate. For example, the hydrophobic
monomer may comprise styrene; alpha-methylstyrene; t-butylstyrene; p-methylstyrene;
methyl methacrylate; or t-butyl-acrylate. For example, the hydrophobic monomer may
comprise styrene. In certain embodiments, the hydrophobic monomer may comprise a
protected functional group.
[0098]       Suitable hydrophilic monomers that may be used to form an arm or segment of
an arm, such as a polymeric segment of an arm, of a star macromolecule may include, but
is not limited to, protected and unprotected acrylic acid, such as methacrylic acid,
ethacrylic acid, methyl acrylate, ethyl acrylate, A-butyl acrylate, iso-butyl acrylate, t-butyl
acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl acrylate, decyl acrylate, octyl acrylate; methyl methacrylate; ethyl
methacrylate; n-butyl methacrylate; iso-butyl methacrylate; t-butyl methacrylate; 2
                                              20

ethylhexyl methacrylate; decyl methacrylate; methyl ethacrylate; ethyl ethacrylate; n
butyl ethacrylate; iso-butyl ethacrylate; t-butyl ethacrylate; 2-ethylhexyl ethacrylate;
decyl ethacrylate; 2,3-dihydroxypropyl acrylate; 2,3-dihydroxypropyl methacrylate; 2
hydroxyethyl acrylate; 2-hydroxypropyl acrylate; hydroxypropyl methacrylate; glyceryl
monoacrylate; glyceryl monoethacrylate; glycidyl methacrylate; glycidyl acrylate;
acrylamide; methacrylamide; ethacrylamide; N-methyl acrylamide; N,N-dimethyl
acrylamide; N,N-dimethyl methacrylamide; N-ethyl acrylamide; N-isopropyl acrylamide;
N-butyl acrylamide; N-t-butyl acrylamide; N,N-di-n-butyl acrylamide; N,N
diethylacrylamide; N-octyl acrylamide; N-octadecyl acrylamide; N,N-diethylacrylamide;
N-phenyl acrylamide; N-methyl methacrylamide; N-ethyl methacrylamide; N-dodecyl
methacrylamide; N,N-dimethylaminoethyl acrylamide; quaternised N,N
dimethylaminoethyl acrylamide; N,N-dimethylaminoethyl methacrylamide; quaternised
N,N-dimethylaminoethyl methacrylamide; N,N-dimethylaminoethyl acrylate; N,N
dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate; quatemised N,N-dimethyl-aminoethyl acrylate;
quaternised N,N-dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate; 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate; 2
hydroxyethyl methacrylate; 2-hydroxyethyl ethacrylate; glyceryl acrylate; 2
methoxyethyl acrylate; 2-methoxyethyl methacrylate; 2-methoxyethyl ethacrylate; 2
ethoxyethyl acrylate; 2-ethoxyethyl methacrylate; 2-ethoxyethyl ethacrylate; maleic acid;
maleic anhydride and its half esters; fumaric acid; itaconic acid; itaconic anhydride and
its half esters; crotonic acid; angelic acid; diallyldimethyl ammonium chloride; vinyl
pyrrolidone vinyl imidazole; methyl vinyl ether; methyl vinyl ketone; maleimide; vinyl
pyridine; vinyl pyridine-N-oxide; vinyl furan; styrene sulphonic acid and its salts; allyl
alcohol; allyl citrate; allyl tartrate; vinyl acetate; vinyl alcohol; vinyl caprolactam; vinyl
acetamide; or vinyl formamide. For example, the hydrophilic monomer may comprise
protected and unprotected acrylic acid, such as methacrylic acid, ethacrylic acid, methyl
acrylate, ethyl acrylate, A-butyl acrylate, iso-butyl acrylate, t-butyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl
acrylate, decyl acrylate, octyl acrylate; methyl acrylate; methyl methacrylate; methyl
ethacrylate; ethyl acrylate; ethyl methacrylate; ethyl ethacrylate; n-butyl acrylate; n-butyl
methacrylate; n-butyl ethacrylate; 2-ethylhexyl acrylate; 2-ethylhexyl methacrylate; 2
ethylhexyl ethacrylate; N-octyl acrylamide; 2-methoxyethyl acrylate; 2-hydroxyethyl
acrylate; N,N-dimethylaminoethyl acrylate; N,N-dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate;
acrylic acid; methacrylic acid; N-t-butylacrylamide; N-sec-butylacrylamide; N,N
dimethylacrylamide; N,N-dibutylacrylamide; N,N-dihydroxyethyllacrylamide; 2
hydroxyethyl acrylate; 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate; benzyl acrylate; 4
                                                 21

butoxycarbonylphenyl acrylate; butyl acrylate; 4-cyanobutyl acrylate; cyclohexyl
acrylate; dodecyl acrylate; 2-ethylhexyl acrylate; heptyl acrylate; iso-butyl acrylate; 3
methoxybutyl acrylate; 3-methoxypropyl acrylate; methyl acrylate; N-butyl acrylamide;
N,N-dibutyl acrylamide; ethyl acrylate; methoxyethyl acrylate; hydroxyethyl acrylate; or
diethyleneglycolethyl acrylate. For example, the hydrophilic monomer may comprise
protected and unprotected acrylic acid, such as methacrylic acid, ethacrylic acid, methyl
acrylate, ethyl acrylate, a-butyl acrylate, iso-butyl acrylate, t-butyl acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl
acrylate, decyl acrylate, octyl acrylate; 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate; N-isopropylacrylamide;
ethylene glycol methacrylate; (polyethylene glycol) methacrylate; or quaternized
dimethylaminoethyl methacrylate. For example, the hydrophilic monomer may comprise
acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate, acrylamide, vinyl pyrrolidone,
vinyl pyridine, styrene sulphonic acid, PEG-methacrylate, 2-(dimethylamino)ethyl
methacrylate, 2-(trimethylamino)ethyl methacrylate, 2-acrylamido-2-methylpropane
sulphonic acid. For example, the hydrophilic monomer may comprise acrylic acid.
[0099]       Suitable monomers that may be used to form a core of a star macromolecule
may include, but are not limited to, a multifunctional monomer, for example, a
hexafunctional monomer, a pentafunctional monomer, a tetrafunctional monomer, a
trifunctional monomer, or a difunctional monomer. For example, a crosslinker may be a
hydrophobic monomer or a hydrophilic monomer, such as a hydrophobic multifunctional
monomer or a hydrophilic multifunctional monomer, for example, a hydrophobic
difunctional monomer or a hydrophilic difunctional monomer. For example, the
crosslinker may be a hydrophobic crosslinker, including, but not limited to, 1,2
divinylbenzene; 1,3-divinylbenzene; 1,4-divinylbenzene; 1,2-ethanediol di(meth)acrylate;
1,3-propanediol di(meth)acrylate; 1,4butanediol di(meth)acrylate; 1,5-hexanediol
di(meth)acrylate; divinylbenzene; ethyleneglycol di(meth)acrylate; di(ethylene glycol)
diacrylate (DEGlyDA); propyleneglycol di(meth)acrylate; butyleneglycol
di(meth)acrylate; triethyleneglycol di(meth)acrylate; polyethyleneglycol di(meth)acrylate;
polypropyleneglycol di(meth)acrylate; polybutyleneglycol di(meth)acrylate;
allyl(meth)acrylate; glycerol di(meth)acrylate; trimethylolpropane tri(meth)acrylate;
pentaerythritol tetra(meth)acrylate; allyl methacrylate; or allyl acrylate. For example, the
crosslinker may be di(ethylene glycol) diacrylate (DEGlyDA) or divinylbenzene. For
example, the crosslinker may be divinylbenzene.
[00100]      Suitable star macromolecules may include, but are not limited to, a mikto star
macromolecule, a water-soluble star macromolecule, a gel-forming star macromolecule,
                                               22

emulsifier/thickening agent star macromolecules or combinations thereof. In certain
embodiments, the star macromolecule may have a molecular weight of greater than
100,000 g/mol, for example, between 100,000 g/mol and 2,000,000 g/mol, such as
between 125,000 g/mol and 1,750,000 g/mol; between 150,000 g/mol and 1,750,000
g/mol; between 200,000 g/mol and 1,500,000 g/mol; between 225,000 g/mol and
1,250,000 g/mol; between 125,000 g/mol and 1,000,000 g/mol; between 125,000 g/mol
and 900,000 g/mol; between 125,000 g/mol and 800,000 g/mol; between 125,000 g/mol
and 700,000 g/mol; between 150,000 g/mol and 650,000 g/mol; between 200,000 g/mol
and 600,000 g/mol; between 225,000 g/mol and 650,000 g/mol; between 250,000 g/mol
and 550,000 g/mol; between 350,000 g/mol and 500,000 g/mol; between 300,000 g/mol
and 500,000 g/mol; or between 350,000 g/mol and 750,000 g/mol.
[00101]      Suitable star macromolecules may have a polydispersity index (PDI) of less
than 2.5, for example, a PDI of less that 2.0, such as less than 1.7. For example, a star
macromolecule may have a PDI of between 1.0 to 2.5, such as between 1.0 and 2.3;
between 1.0 and 2.0; between 1.0 and 1.9; between 1.0 and 1.8; between 1.0 and 1.7;
between 1.0 and 1.6; between 1.0 and 1.5; between 1.0 and 1.4; between 1.0 and 1.3;
between 1.0 and 1.2; between 1.0 and 1.1; between 1.05 and 1.75; between 1.1 and 1.7;
between 1.15 and 1.65; or between 1.15 and 1.55.
[00102]      Suitable star macromolecules may comprise arms that are of the same type or
a different type and are homopolymeric, copolymeric, comprise multiple block segment,
random segments, gradient segments and or no particular segments. In certain
embodiments, the star macromolecule may comprise, for example, one or more arm
types, such as, two or more, three or more, four or more, or five or more arm-types.
Suitable arm types may include, but are not limited to, homopolymeric arms, copolymeric
arms, such as random copolymeric arms or block copolymeric arms, or combinations
thereof. For example, a star macromolecule may comprise homopolymeric arms and
copolymeric arms, such as block copolymeric arms. Suitable arm types may also include,
but are not limited to, hydrophilic arms, hydrophobic arms, or amphiphilic arms. In
certain embodiments, a star macromolecule arm may comprise hydrophilic polymeric
segments comprising hydrophilic monomeric residues, hydrophobic polymeric segments
comprising hydrophobic monomeric residues, amphiphilic polymeric segments
comprising amphiphilic monomeric residues, or combinations thereof. For example, in
certain embodiments, a star macromolecule may comprise homopolymeric arms and
                                              23

copolymeric arms, such as hydrophilic homopolymeric arms and copolymeric arms
comprising hydrophilic polymeric segments and hydrophobic polymeric segments.
[00103]      Suitable star macromolecules may also comprise arms that are covalently
linked to the core of the star macromolecule. In certain embodiments, the arms of a star
macromolecule may be covalently linked to the core of the star macromolecule via
crosslinking, such as crosslinking with a crosslinker, for example, a hydrophobic
difunctional crosslinker or a hydrophilic difunctional crosslinker. For example, arms of a
star macromolecule, such as homopolymeric arms and block copolymeric arms of a mikto
star macromolecule, may be covalently linked together to form a core by crosslinking an
end of the arms with a crosslinker, such as with a hydrophobic difunctional crosslinker or
a hydrophilic difunctional crosslinker.
[00104]      Suitable star macromolecules may also comprise arms of varying length
and/or degree of polymerization. In certain embodiments, for example, a star
macromolecule may comprise homopolymeric arms and block copolymeric arms,
wherein the homopolymeric arms of a shorter length and/or a lesser degree of
polymerization in relation to the block copolymeric arms. In certain embodiments, for
example, a star macromolecule may comprise homopolymeric arms and block
copolymeric arms, wherein the block copolymeric arms of a longer length and/or a
greater degree of polymerization in relation to the homopolymeric arms. In certain
embodiments, a star macromolecule may comprise hydrophilic homopolymeric arms and
block copolymeric arms, comprising hydrophobic polymeric segments distal to the star
core and hydrophilic polymeric segments that are proximal to the core of the star, wherein
a distal portion of the hydrophilic polymeric segments of the copolymeric arm extends
beyond a distal portion of the hydrophilic homopolymeric arms. For example, a star
macromolecule may comprise hydrophilic homopolymeric arms comprising polymerized
hydrophilic monomeric residues and block copolymeric arms comprising hydrophobic
polymeric segments distal to the core of the star and hydrophilic polymeric segments that
are proximal to the core of the star, wherein the distal hydrophobic polymeric segments
extend beyond the most distal portion, in relation to the core, of the hydrophilic
homopolymeric arms, and/or wherein a distal portion of the proximal hydrophilic
polymeric segments of the copolymeric arm extend beyond the most distal portion, in
relation to the core, of the hydrophilic homopolymeric arms. In certain embodiments, a
star macromolecule may comprise hydrophilic homopolymeric arms and block
copolymeric arms, comprising hydrophobic polymeric segments distal to the star core and
                                             24

hydrophilic polymeric segments that are proximal to the star core, wherein the degree of
polymerization of the hydrophilic polymeric segments of the copolymeric arm is greater
than, for example, 20% greater than, such as between 30% to 300% greater than, between
40% to 250%, between 50% to 200%, or between 75% to 250% greater than, the degree
of polymerization of the hydrophilic homopolymeric arms, such that a distal portion of
the hydrophilic polymeric segments of the copolymeric arm extends beyond the a distal
portion of the hydrophilic homopolymeric arms.
[00105]     In certain embodiments, a star macromolecule may comprise hydrophilic
homopolymeric arms comprising polymerized hydrophilic monomeric residues and block
copolymeric arms comprising hydrophobic polymeric segments distal to the core of the
star and hydrophilic polymeric segments proximal to the core of the star, wherein the
polymerized hydrophilic monomeric residues of the homopolymeric arm and the
hydrophilic polymeric segments of the copolymeric arm may be derived from the same
hydrophilic monomers, and may have the same or different degree of polymerization, for
example, a degree of polymerization of between 50 to 500 monomeric residues, such as,
between 50 to 400 monomeric residues; between 50 to 300 monomeric residues; between
50 to 200 monomeric residues; between 100 to 250 monomeric residues; between 125 to
175 monomeric residues; or between 150 to 300 monomeric residues. For example, a star
macromolecule may comprise hydrophilic homopolymeric arms comprising polymerized
hydrophilic monomeric residues and block copolymeric arms comprising hydrophobic
polymeric segments distal to the core of the star and hydrophilic polymeric segments
proximal to the core of the star, wherein the polymerized hydrophilic monomeric residues
of the homopolymeric arm and the hydrophilic polymeric segments of the copolymeric
arm may be derived from the same hydrophilic monomers, and may have the same degree
of polymerization, and wherein the hydrophibic polymeric segments of the copolymeric
arm may have a degree of polymerization of between 1 to 60 monomeric residues, such as
between 1 to 50 monomeric residues; between 1 to 45 monomeric residues; between 5 to
40 monomeric residues; between 8 to 35 monomeric residues; between 10 to 30
monomeric residues; between 12 to 25 monomeric residues; between 14 to 20 monomeric
residues; between 15 to 30 monomeric residues; or between 5 to 20 monomeric residues.
[00106]     Suitable star macromolecules may have a wide range of total number of arms,
for example, a star macromolecule may comprise greater than 15 arms. For example, a
suitable star macromolecule may comprise between 15 and 100 arms, such as between 15
and 90 arms; between 15 and 80 arms; between 15 and 70 arms; between 15 and 60 arms;
                                             25

between 15 and 50 arms; between 20 and 50 arms; between 25 and 45 arms; between 25
and 35 arms; between 30 and 45 arms; or between 30 and 50 arms.
[00107]      Suitable star macromolecules may have more than one arm type, such as two
or more different arm types, where in a molar ratio of the different arm types may be
between 20:1 and 1:1. For example, a star macromolecule comprising two different arm
types, such as a homopolymeric arm, for example, a hydrophilic homopolymeric arm, and
a copolymeric arm, for example, a copolymeric arm comprising hydrophilic polymeric
segments and hydrophobic polymeric segments, may have a molar ratio of the two
different arm types between 20:1 to 2:1, such as between 15:1 to 2:1; between 10:1 to 2:1;
between 9:1 to 2:1; between 8:1 to 2:1; between 7:1 to 2:1; between 6:1 to 2:1; between
5:1 to 2:1; between 4:1 to 2:1; between 3:1 to 2:1; between 2:1 to 1:1; between 8:1 to 3:1;
between 7:1 to 2:1; or between 5:1 to 3:1.
[00108]      Suitable star macromolecules may include, but is not limited to, comprising
arms having a molecular weight of greater than 10,000 g/mol. For example, a star
macromolecule may comprise arms having a molecular weight of between 10,000 g/mol
and 200,000 g/mol, such as between 10,000 g/mol and 175,000 g/mol; between 10,000
g/mol and 150,000 g/mol; between 10,000 g/mol and 125,000 g/mol; between 10,000
g/mol and 100,000 g/mol; between 10,000 g/mol and 90,000 g/mol; between 10,000
g/mol and 80,000 g/mol; between 10,000 g/mol and 70,000 g/mol; between 60,000 g/mol
and 50,000 g/mol; between 10,000 g/mol and 40,000 g/mol; between 10,000 g/mol and
30,000 g/mol; between 10,000 g/mol and 20,000 g/mol; between 20,000 g/mol and
175,000 g/mol; between 20,000 g/mol and 100,000 g/mol; between 20,000 g/mol and
75,000 g/mol; between 20,000 g/mol and 50,000 g/mol; between 15,000 g/mol and
45,000 g/mol; or between 15,000 g/mol and 30,000 g/mol.
[00109]      Suitable arms of a star macromolecule may include, but is not limited to, arms
having an HLB value of at least 17 (wherein the HLB is calculated per the formula set
forth in the test procedures). For example, suitable arms of a star macromolecule may
have an HLB value of greater than 17.25, such as greater than 18.5; at least 19; between
17.5 to 20; between 17.5 to 19.5; between 18 to 20; between 18.5 to 20; between 19 to 20;
between 19.5 to 20; between 18 to 19.5; between 18.5 to 19.75; between 18.2 to 19.2; or
between 18.75 to 19.5.
[00110]      Suitable hydrophobic polymeric segments of a copolymeric arm of a star
macromolecule may include, but is not limited to, hydrophobic polymeric segments
having an HLB value of less than 8. For example, suitable hydrophobic polymeric
                                             26

segments may have an HLB value of less than 7, such as less than 6; less than 5; less than
4; less than 3; less than 2; or about 1.
[00111]      Suitable arms of a star macromolecule may include, but is not limited to, arms
having a polydispersity index (PDI) value of less than 2.5. For example, suitable arms of
a star macromolecule may have PDI value of less than 2.25, such as less that 2.0; less
than 1.7; between 1.0 to 2.5, such as between 1.0 and 2.3; between 1.0 and 2.0; between
1.0 and 1.9; between 1.0 and 1.8; between 1.0 and 1.7; between 1.0 and 1.6; between 1.0
and 1.5; between 1.0 and 1.4; between 1.0 and 1.3; between 1.0 and 1.2; between 1.0 and
1.1; between 1.05 and 1.75; between 1.1 and 1.7; between 1.15 and 1.65; or between 1.15
and 1.55.
[00112]      Suitable cores of a star macromolecule may be formed by or derived from, but
is not limited to, crosslinking of a plurality of arms and a crosslinker. For example, a core
may be formed by or derived from crosslinking of a plurality of homopolymeric arms and
a plurality of copolymeric arms with a crosslinker, such as a mutlifunctional monomer
crosslinker, for example, a hydrophobic difunctional monomer crosslinker. In certain
embodiments, the core may be formed or derived from crosslinking a plurality of
hydrophilic homopolymeric arms and a plurality of copolymeric arms, comprising block
hydrophilic polymeric segments and block hydrophobic polymeric segments, with a
crosslinker, such as a hydrophobic difunctional monomer crosslinker, for example
divinylbenzene, wherein the molar ratio of the homopolymeric arms to the copolymeric
arms may be between 20:1 to 2:1.
[00113]      Suitable star macromolecules may include, but is not limited to, comprising a
core having a molecular weight of greater than 3,000 g/mol. For example, a star
macromolecule may comprise a core having a molecular weight of between 3,000 g/mol
and 50,000 g/mol, such as between 3,000 g/mol and 45,000 g/mol; between 3,000 g/mol
and 40,000 g/mol; between 3,000 g/mol and 30,000 g/mol; between 3,000 g/mol and
20,000 g/mol; between 3,000 g/mol and 15,000 g/mol; between 5,000 g/mol and 40,000
g/mol; between 6,000 g/mol and 30,000 g/mol; between 7,000 g/mol and 25,000 g/mol;
between 8,000 g/mol and 20,000 g/mol; between 5,000 g/mol and 15,000 g/mol; between
7,000 g/mol and 12,000 g/mol; between 5,000 g/mol and 9,000 g/mol; between 8,000
g/mol and 10,000 g/mol; or between 9,000 g/mol and 15,000 g/mol.
[00114]      Suitable star macromolecules may be used to form a clear, homogeneous gel
when dissolved in water at a concentration of at least 0.05 wt.% at a pH of about 7.5 at
STP. For example, a star macromolecule may form a clear, homogeneous gel when
                                               27

dissolved in water at a concentration of between 0.05 wt.% to 3 wt.%, such as between
0.1 wt.% to 2.5 wt.%; between 0.1 wt.% to 2 wt.%; between 0.2 wt.% to 2.0 wt.%;
between 0.2 wt.% to 1.5 wt.%; between 0.2 wt.% to 1.0 wt.%; between 0.2 wt.% to 2.5
wt.%; between 0.3 wt.% to 2.5 wt.%; between 0.4 wt.% to 2.0 wt.%; between 0.5 wt.% to
2.0 wt.%; between 0.6 wt.% to 2.0 wt.%; between 0.7 wt.% to 1.5 wt.%; between 0.8
wt.% to 1.2 wt.%; between 0.9 wt.% to 1.1 wt.%; between 0.5 wt.% to 2.5 wt.%; between
0.75 wt.% to 1.5 wt.%; or between 0.8 wt.% to 1.6 wt.%.
[00115]     Suitable star macromolecules, in accordance with the pH Efficiency Range
Test Procedure described below herein, may be used to form a clear, homogeneous gel,
wherein the star macromolecule at a concentration of 0.4 wt.%, may have a viscosity of at
least 20,000 cP, at a pH of between about 4 to about 12, for example, at a pH of between
about 5 to about 11.5 such as at a pH of between about 5 to about 11; between about 5 to
about 10.5; between about 5 to about 10; between about 5 to about 9.5; between about 5
to about 9; between about 5 to about 8.5; between about 5 to about 8; between about 6 to
about 11; between about 5.5 to about 10; between about 6 to about 9; between about 6.5
to about 8.5; between about 7 to about 8; between about 7.5 to about 8.5; or between
about 6.5 to about 7.5.
[00116]     In certain embodiments, for example, suitable star macromolecules, in
accordance with the pH Efficiency Range Test Procedure described below herein, may be
used to form a clear, homogeneous gel, wherein the star macromolecule at a
concentration of 0.4 wt.%, may have a viscosity of at least 20,000 cP at a pH between
about 5.5 to about 11. For example, at a pH between about 5.5 to about 11 may have a
viscosity of at least 30,000 cP, such as, at least 40,000 cP; between 20,000 cP to 250,000
cP; between 20,000 cP to 250,000 cP; between 20,000 cP to 225,000 cP; between 20,000
cP to 200,000 cP; between 20,000 cP to 175,000 cP; between 20,000 cP to 150,000 cP;
between 20,000 cP to 125,000 cP; between 30,000 cP to 250,000 cP; between 30,000 cP
to 200,000 cP; between 40,000 cP to 175,000 cP; or between 40,000 cP to 150,000 cP.
For example, a gel at a pH between about 6 to about 11 may have a viscosity of at least
20,000 cP, such as, at least 30,000 cP; at least 40,000 cP; between 20,000 cP to 250,000
cP; between 20,000 cP to 250,000 cP; between 20,000 cP to 225,000 cP; between 20,000
cP to 200,000 cP; between 20,000 cP to 175,000 cP; between 20,000 cP to 150,000 cP;
between 20,000 cP to 125,000 cP; between 30,000 cP to 250,000 cP; between 30,000 cP
to 200,000 cP; between 40,000 cP to 175,000 cP; or between 40,000 cP to 150,000 cP.
For example, at a pH between about 7 to about 10.5 may have a viscosity of at least
                                               28

60,000 cP, such as at least 70,000 cP; between 60,000 cP to 250,000 cP; between 60,000
cP to 225,000 cP; between 60,000 cP to 200,000 cP; between 60,000 cP to 175,000 cP;
between 60,000 cP to 150,000 cP; between 60,000 cP to 125,000 cP; between 60,000 cP
to 115,000 cP; between 60,000 cP to 105,000 cP; or between 60,000 cP to 100,000 cP.
For example, at a pH between about 7.5 to about 9.0 may have a viscosity of at least
95,000 cP, such as at least 100,000 cP; between 95,000 cP to 250,000 cP; between 95,000
cP to 225,000 cP; between 95,000 cP to 200,000 cP; between 95,000 cP to 175,000 cP;
between 95,000 cP to 150,000 cP; between 95,000 cP to 125,000 cP; between 95,000 cP
to 115,000 cP; or between 95,000 cP to 105,000 cP.
[00117]      Suitable star macromolecules, in accordance with the Dynamic Viscosity &
Shear-Thinning Test Procedure described below herein, may be used to form a clear,
homogeneous gel, wherein the star macromolecule at a concentration of 0.4 wt.%, may
have a viscosity of less than 5,000 cP at a shear rate of 4 sec-1 , such as a viscosity of less
than 4,000 cP. For example, the star macromolecule at a concentration of 0.4 wt.%, may
have a viscosity have a viscosity of less than 5,000 cP at a shear rate of 6 sec- , such as a
viscosity of less than 4,000 cP or less than 3,000 cP. For example, a gel may have a
viscosity of less than 15,000 cP at a shear rate of 0.7 sec-1 , such as a viscosity of less than
14,000 cP or less than 13,000 cP. Suitable gels may include, but is not limited to, gels
having shear-thinning value of at least 5, such as a shear-thinning value of at least 6, or
between 5 to 15, such as between 5 to 15; between 7 to 12; between 8 to 10; or between 6
to 13.
[00118]      Suitable star macromolecules, in accordance with the Dynamic Viscosity &
Shear-Thinning Test Procedure described below herein, include those that have a shear
thinning value of at least 15, such as a shear-thinning value of between 15 to 100, such as
between 15 to 90; between 20 to 80; between 25 to 70; between 25 to 50; or between 30
to 40.
[00119]      Suitable star macromolecules, in accordance with the Salt-Induced Break Test
Procedure described below herein, include those that have a salt-induced break value of at
least 50%, such as a salt-induced break value of between 65% to 100%, such as between
75% to 100%; between 80% to 95%; between 75% to 90%; between 50% to 85%;
between 70% to 95%; or between 60% to 100%.
[00120]      Suitable star macromolecules, in accordance with the pH Efficiency Range
Test Procedure described below herein, include those that have a pH-induced break value
of at least 15%, such as a pH-induced break value of between 15% to 100%, such as
                                              29

between 25 % to 100%; between 30% to 95 %; between 40% to 90%; between 50% to
85%; between 70% to 95%; between 80% to 97%; between 90% to 99%; between 95% to
100%; or between 60% to 100%.
[00121]       Suitable star macromolecules, in accordance with the Dynamic Viscosity &
Shear-Thinning Test Procedure described below herein, include those that have a
dynamic viscosity value, of greater than 20,000 cP at 1 rpm, and at a concentration of
0.2wt.%, such as a dynamic viscosity value of greater than 24,000 cP; greater than 28,000
cP; or greater than 30,000 cP at a concentration of 0.2wt.%.
[00122]       Suitable emulsions may include, but is not limited to, emulsions that are
emulsifier-free and wherein the emulsion is thickened by a star macromolecule. For
example, the star macromolecule that may be included in the emulsifier-free emulsion
may be a water-soluble star macromolecule, wherein the water-soluble star
macromolecule emulsifies the emulsifier-free emulsion.
[00123]       Suitable star macromolecules, include star macromolecules that have an
emulsion value of greater than 60 minutes, for example, greater than 3 hours, such as
greater than 6 hours; greater than 10 hours; greater than 20 hours; greater than 40 hours;
or greater than 100 hours.
[00124]       Suitable star macromolecules, according to Formula X, may include star
macromolecules wherein P1, P2, and/or P3 comprise hydrophobic monomers, hydrophilic
monomers, amphiphilic monomers, or combinations thereof. For example, P1 comprises
hydrophobic monomers, P2 comprises hydrophilic monomers, and P3 comprises
hydrophilic monomers. For example, star macromolecules, according to Formula X, may
include star macromolecules wherein ql may have a value of between 1 to 100, for
example, between 1 to 60, such as, between 1 to 45; between 5 to 40; between 8 to 35;
between 10 to 30; between 12 to 25; between 14 to 20; between 15 to 30; or between 5 to
20; and q2 and/or q3 have a value of between 50 to 500, for example, between 50 to 400,
such as, between 50 to 300; between 50 to 200; between 100 to 250; between 125 to 175;
or between 150 to 300. For example, star macromolecules, according to Formula X, may
include star macromolecules wherein r or t, or the sum of r and t, may be greater than 15,
such as between 15 and 100; between 15 and 90; between 15 and 80; between 15 and 70;
between 15 and 60; between 15 and 50; between 20 and 50; between 25 and 45; between
25 and 35; between 30 and 45; or between 30 and 50. For example, star macromolecules,
according to Formula X, may include star macromolecules wherein the molar ratio of r to
t is in the range of between 20:1 to 2:1, such as between 15:1 to 2:1; between 10:1 to 2:1;
                                              30

between 9:1 to 2:1; between 8:1 to 2:1; between 7:1 to 2:1; between 6:1 to 2:1; between
5:1 to 2:1; between 4:1 to 2:1; between 3:1 to 2:1; between 2:1 to 1:1; between 8:1 to 3:1;
between 7:1 to 2:1; or between 5:1 to 3:1. For example, star macromolecules, according
to Formula X, may include star macromolecules wherein the core may be derived from
crosslinker monomers, such as hydrophobic crosslinker monomers. For example, star
macromolecules, according to Formula X, may include star macromolecules wherein the
core may comprise crosslinker monomereric residues, such as hydrophobic crosslinker
monomeric residues. For example, star macromolecules, according to Formula X, may
include star macromolecules wherein the arm [(P1)qi-(P 2 )2]t may be homopolymeric or
copolymeric, such as block copolymeric.
[00125]      Suitable star macromolecules, may include, but is not limited to, star
macromolecules formed by crosslinking the arms with a crosslinker, such as crosslinking
homopolymeric arms and block copolymeric arms with a hydrophobic crosslinker. For
example, the homopolymeric arms and the copolymeric arms of a star macromolecule
may be covalently attached to the core via crosslinkage with a crosslinker. For example,
a core of a prepared star macromolecule may be prepared by crosslinking an end of a
homopolymeric arm with an end of a copolymeric arm, such as an end of a hydrophilic
homopolymeric arm with a hydrophilic end of a copolymeric arm. For example, the core
of a prepared star macromolecules may be formed by crosslinking an ATRP-functional
terminal group end of a homopolymeric arm with an ATRP-functional terminal group end
of a copolymeric arm.
[00126]      Suitable initiators that may be used to form the star macromolecules disclosed
herein, may include, but is not limited to, nitroxide initiators, such as stable nitroxide
initiators, for example, 2,2,6,6-Tetramethylpiperidine- 1-oxyl, sometimes called TEMPO;
transition metal complexes, such cobalt containing complexes; ATRP initiators,
comprising halides, such as, bromide, chloride, or iodide, and transition metal sources,
such as, copper, iron, ruthenium transition metal sources; iodide with RCTP catalysts,
such as germanium or tin catalysts; RAFT initiators, such as dithioesters,
dithiocarbamates, or xanthates; ITP catalysts, comprising iodides; tellurium compounds
(e.g., TERP); stibine compounds (e.g., SBRP); or bismuth compounds (e.g., BIRP). For
example, in certain embodiments, an initiator may further comprise a monomeric residue,
a polymeric segment comprising monomeric residues, or a small-molecule. For example,
in certain embodiments, an initiator may comprise an ATRP initiator, wherein the ATRP
initiator serves as a terminal functional group. For example, in certain embodiments, an
                                               31

initiator may comprise an ATRP-functional terminal group, comprising an ATRP
initiator, such as halides and transition metal sources.
[00127]      Suitable materials comprising the star macromolecules disclosed herein,
include, but is not limited to, lotions, such as cosmetic lotions, personal care lotions, body
lotions, emulsifier-free body lotions; serums, such as anti-aging serums; sunscreens, such
as SPF 30 sunscreens, SPF 35 sunscreens, SPF 40 sunscreens, SPF 50 sunscreens;
creams, such as face-creams, cosmetic creams; hair products, such as shampoos, hair
styling products, hair sprays, mousses, hair gels, hair conditioners, bath preparations;
gels, such as cosmetic gels or personal care gels; skin application products, such as
ointments, deodorants, personal care powders, skin cleansers, skin conditioners, skin
emollients, skin moisturizers, skin wipes, shaving preparations; fabric softeners; dental
impression materials; or variations thereof.
[00128]      Suitable materials comprising an emulsifier-free emulsion, wherein the
emulsion is thickened by a star macromolecule disclosed herein, may include, but is not
limited to, lotions, such as cosmetic lotions, personal care lotions, body lotions,
emulsifier-free body lotions; serums, such as anti-aging serums; sunscreens, such as SPF
30 sunscreens, SPF 35 sunscreens, SPF 40 sunscreens, SPF 50 sunscreens; creams, such
as face-creams, cosmetic creams; hair products, such as shampoos, hair styling products,
hair sprays, mousses, hair gels, hair conditioners, bath preparations; gels, such as
cosmetic gels or personal care gels; skin application products, such as ointments,
deodorants, personal care powders, skin cleansers, skin conditioners, skin emollients, skin
moisturizers, skin wipes, shaving preparations; fabric softeners; dental impression
materials; or variations thereof.
[00129]      In an embodiment, examples of suitable lotion formulations include body
lotion formulations, comprising an emulsifier-free emulsion, wherein the emulsion is
thickened by a star macromolecule disclosed herein, may include, but is not limited to,
formulations comprising one or more of the following: Deionized Water; Disodium
EDTA; 1,3-Butylene Glycol; Glycerin; Allantoin; Urea; TEA 99%; Edible Olive Oil
(N.F.); Shea Butter; Wickenol 171; Squalane; Crodamol CAP; Crodamol STS; Crodacol
C; Tween 20; Lipo GMS 470; PEG 100 Stearate; Cetyl Palmitate; Crodamol PTIS;
Crodafos CES; DC 1401; Evening Primrose Oil; Vitamin E Acetate; D-Panthenol;
Distinctive HA2; Diocide; or derivatives or combinations thereof.
[00130]      In an embodiment, examples of suitable lotion formulations include
emulsifier-free personal care lotion formulations, comprising an emulsifier-free emulsion,
                                               32

wherein the emulsion is thickened by a star macromolecule disclosed herein, may include,
but is not limited to, formulations comprising one or more of the following: Deionized
Water; Disodium EDTA; 1,3-Butylene Glycol; Glycerin; Allantoin; Urea; TEA 99%;
Edible Olive Oil (N.F.); Wickenol 171; Myritol 318; Squalane; Crodamol PTIS;
Isododecane; Evening Primrose Oil; Vitamin E Acetate; D-Panthenol; Distinctive HA2;
Diocide; or derivatives or combinations thereof.
[00131]      In an embodiment, examples of suitable formulations include serum
formulations, such as anti-aging serum formulations, comprising an emulsifier-free
emulsion, wherein the emulsion is thickened by a star macromolecule disclosed herein,
may include, but is not limited to, formulations comprising one or more of the following:
Deionized Water; Disodium EDTA; Glycerin; 1,3-Butylene Glycol; Caffeine; Allantoin;
Triethanolamine 99%; Crodamol STS; Myritol 318; Wickenol 171; Tween 20; Crodaphos
CES; BVOSC; Vitamin E Acetate; Vitamin A Palmitate; Vitamin D3; Gransil IDS; D
Panthenol; DC Upregulex; DC Skin Bright MG; Actiphyte ofJapanese Green Tea G;
Actiphyte of Grape Seed G; DC Hydroglide; Diocide; or derivatives or combinations
thereof.
[00132]      In an embodiment,suitable formulations include sunscreen formulations,
comprising an emulsifier-free emulsion, wherein the emulsion is thickened by a star
macromolecule disclosed herein, may include, but is not limited to, formulations
comprising one or more of the following: Deionized Water; Disodium EDTA; Glycerin;
Triethanolamine 99%; Homomethyl Salicylate; Ethylhexyl Salicylate; Avobenzone;
Benzophenone 3; Myritol 318; Lexfeel 7; Octocrylene; Cetyl Alcohol; PEG-15
Cocamine; Lipo GMS 470; Crodafos CS-20; Vitamin E Acetate; Aloe Vera Leaf Juice;
Diocide; or derivatives or combinations thereof.
[00133]      In an embodiment, examples of suitable formulations include face cream
formulations, comprising an emulsifier-free emulsion, wherein the emulsion is thickened
by a star macromolecule disclosed herein, may include, but is not limited to, formulations
comprising one or more of the following: Deionized Water; Disodium EDTA; 1,3
Butylene Glycol; Glycerin; Caffeine; Allantoin; Triethanolamine 99%; Myritol 318;
Octyl Palmitate; Wickenol 171; Crodaphos CES; Cetyl Alcohol; Pationic SSL; Cetyl
Palmitate; Vitamin E Acetate; BVOSC; Lexfeel 7; Lipo GMS 470; Vitamin A/D3 in Corn
Oil; DC 1401; Actiphyte ofJapanese Green Tea G; Actiphyte of Grape Seed G; DC
Hydroglide; Diocide; or derivatives or combinations thereof.
                                             33

Synthesis of the Rheology Modifier
[00134]     Although any conventional method can be used for the synthesis of the multi
arm star macromolecules of the invention, free radical polymerization is the preferred and
living/controlled radical polymerization (CRP) is the most preferred process.
[00135]     CRP has emerged during the past decade as one of the most robust and
powerful techniques for polymer synthesis, as it combines some of the desirable attributes
of conventional free radical polymerization (e.g., the ability to polymerize a wide range of
monomers, tolerance of various functionality in monomer and solvent, compatibility with
simple industrially viable reaction conditions) with the advantages of living ionic
polymerization techniques (e.g., preparation of low polydispersity index (PDI   = M/Ma)
polymer and chain-end functionalized homo- and block (co)polymers). The basic concept
behind the various CRP procedures is the reversible activation of a dormant species to
form the propagating radical. A dynamic and rapid equilibrium between the dormant and
the active species minimizes the probability of bimolecular radical termination reactions
and provides an equal opportunity for propagation to all polymer (or dormant) chains.
[00136]     CRP procedures can be classified into three main groups based on the
mechanism of reversible activation: (a) stable free radical polymerization (SFRP, Scheme
la), (b) degenerative chain transfer polymerization (DT, Scheme 1b), and (c) atom
transfer radical polymerization (ATRP, Scheme Ic).
                       (a) Stable free radical polymerization (SFRP)
                                        ka     (N)kI
                           P'-X           ],      P  9   + OX
                                        kda
                       (b) Degenerative chain transfer polymerization (DT)
                           PflX  -1   P
                                         n
                                     - k Initiator
                                    P-X0 ++P
                                                 kex       CN
                                                                  k
                                                                  'k
                                                              P n .. PflX
                       (c) Atom transfer radical polymerization (ATRP)
                                                      kak
                                                     kda
Scheme 1. Three main groups of controlled radical polymerization based on the
mechanism of reversible activation: (a) stable free radical polymerization (SFRP), (b)
degenerative chain transfer polymerization (DT), and (c) atom transfer radical
polymerization (ATRP).
                                                     34

[00137]     As shown in Scheme 1 various capping agents, X, are used for the different
CRP procedures and they are summarized in Scheme 2. They include stable nitroxides
(Scheme 2a), transition metal complexes (Scheme 2b), halides with transition metal
catalysts (Scheme 2c), iodine with catalysts (Scheme 2d), sulfur compounds (Scheme 2e),
iodine (Scheme 2f), and organometal compounds (Scheme 2g).
                       (a) Nitroxides (NMP)
                             X= -O-N:         (TEMPO)      etc.
                       (b) Transition metal complexes
                             X = -Co          etc.
                       (c) Halides with transition metals (ATRP)
                             X = -Br, CI, 1+ Metal (Cu, Fe, Ru, etc.)
                       (d) Iodide with catalysts (RCTP)
                             X = -1 + Ge, Sn, etc.
                       (e) Dithioester, dithiocarbamate, and xanthate (RAFT)
                             X = -Sc=s
                                    Z     ( Z= Ph, CH 3 , NEt 2, OEt, etc.
                       (f) Iodine (ITP)
                             X = -1
                       (g) Tellurium, stibine, and bismuth compounds
                            (TERP, SBRP, and BIRP)
                              X= -RR'
                                 (R = Te , Sb, or Bi, R'= CH    3, etc.
        Scheme 2. Examples of capping agent X.
[00138]     Star polymers are nano-scale materials with a globular shape. As illustrated in
Figure 1, stars formed by the "arm first" procedure, discussed in detail below, can have a
crosslinked core and can optionally possess multiple segmented arms of similar
composition. Stars can be designed as homo-arm stars or mikto-arm stars. Figure 1 A
represents a homo-arm star with block copolymer arms. Mikto-arm stars have arms with
different composition or different molecular weight; Figure 1 B and 1 C. Both homo-arm
stars and mikto-arm stars can optionally possess a high-density of peripheral
functionality.
[00139]     Synthesis of star polymers of the invention can be accomplished by "living"
polymerization techniques via one of three strategies: 1)core-first" which is accomplished
by growing arms from a multifunctional initiator;2)"coupling-onto" involving attaching
                                                      35

preformed arms onto a multifunctional core and the 3) arm-first" method which involves
cross-linking preformed linear arm precursors using a divinyl compound
[00140]     While all above controlled polymerization procedures are suitable for
preparation of an embodiment of the disclosed self assembling star macromolecules.
Other embodiments are also exemplified, for example, the preparation of the self
assembling multi-arm stars with narrow MWD, in contrast to prior art using ATRP. The
reason for the use of the Controlled Radical Polymerization process (CRP) known as
ATRP; disclosed in U.S. Patents 5,763,546; 5,807,937; 5,789,487; 5,945,491; 6,111,022;
6,121,371; 6,124,411: 6,162,882: and U.S. Patent Applications 09/034,187; 09/018,554;
09/359,359; 09/359,591; 09/369,157; 09/126,768 and 09/534,827, and discussed in
numerous publications listed elsewhere with Matyjaszewski as co-author, which are
hereby incorporated into this application, is that convenient procedures were described for
the preparation of polymers displaying control over the polymer molecular weight,
molecular weight distribution, composition, architecture, functionality and the preparation
of molecular composites and tethered polymeric structures comprising radically
(co)polymerizable monomers, and the preparation of controllable macromolecular
structures under mild reaction conditions.
[00141]     An aspect of the present invention relates to the preparation and use of multi
arm star macromolecules by an "arm first" approach, discussed by Gao, H.;
Matyjaszewski, K. JACS; 2007, 129, 11828. The paper and cited references therein are
hereby incorporated by reference to describe the fundamentals of the synthetic procedure.
The supplemental information available within the cited reference provides a procedure
for calculation of the number of arms in the formed star macromolecule.
[00142]     It is expected that biphasic systems such as a miniemulsion or an ab initio
emulsion system would also be suitable for this procedure since miniemulsion systems
have been shown to function as dispersed bulk reactors [Min, K.; Gao, H.;
Matyjaszewski, K. Journalof the American Chemical Society 2005, 127, 3825-3830]
with the added advantage of minimizing core-core coupling reactions based on
compartmentalization considerations.
[00143]     In one embodiment star macromolecules are prepared with composition and
molecular weight of each segment predetermined to perform as rheology modifiers in
aqueous based solutions. The first formed segmented linear (co)polymer chains are chain
extended with a crosslinker forming a crosslinked core.
                                              36

[00144]      In another embodiment a simple industrially scalable process for the
preparation of star macromolecules is provided wherein the arms comprise segments
selected to induce self assembly and wherein the self assemblable star macromolecules
are suitable for use as rheology control agents in waterborne and solvent-borne coatings,
adhesives, cosmetics and personal care compositions.
[00145]      The invention is not limited to the specific compositions, components or
process steps disclosed herein as such may vary.
[00146]      It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is only for the
purpose of describing the particular embodiments and is not intended to be limiting.
[00147]      The procedure for the preparation of star macromolecules may be exemplified
by (co)polymerization of linear macromolecules, including macroinitiators (MI) and
macromonomers (MMs), with a multi-vinyl cross-linker, a divinyl crosslinker is
employed in the exemplary examples disclosed herein, to form a core of the star. The
formation of the core of the star can also be formed through a copolymerization reaction
wherein a monovinyl monomer is added to expand the free volume of the core to allow
incorporation of additional arms into the congested core forming environment or to
provide sufficient free volume within the core of the star to encapsulate functional small
molecules. A molecule that functions as an initiator and a monomer, an inimer, can also
be employed in the preparation of the core of the star macromolecule. When added to the
reaction it functions to form a three arm branch in the core of the molecule and hence acts
in a manner similar to the added monomer to increase the free volume within the star
core.
[00148]      The volume fraction of the core of the star can be controlled by appropriate
selection of the crosslinker molecule or by conducting a copolymerization between the
crosslinker and a vinyl monomer or an inimer. The composition of the core can be
selected to provide an environment to encapsulate small molecules, such as fragrances,
and control the rate of diffusion of the fragrance from the self assembled thickening agent
after deposition on a part of the human body.
[00149]      The core of the star polymers may contain additional functionality. This
additional functionality can be of direct utility in certain applications or can be employed
to tether or encapsulate further functional materials such as fragrances, stimuli responsive
molecules or bio-responsive molecules to the core of the star by chemical or physical
interactions.
                                                37

[00150]     The star macromolecules can be prepared in dilute solution when reaction
conditions and crosslinker are chosen to avoid or reduce star-star coupling reactions.
[00151]     The synthesis of multi-arm star polymers where the periphery of the star
polymers contains additional functionality is possible. This functionality can be
introduced by use of an initiator comprising the desired a-functionality in the residue of
the low molecular weight initiator remaining at the u-chain end of each arm.
[00152]     An embodiment of the present invention can be exemplified by the preparation
of a multi-arm star macromolecule wherein the number of arms in the star macromolecule
is between 5 and 500, preferentially between 10 and 250, with segments selected to
induce self assembly when the star macromolecule is dispersed in a liquid wherein the
self assemblable star macromolecules are suitable for use as thickening agents or
rheology modifiers in cosmetic and personal care compositions at low concentrations of
the solid in the thickened solution, preferably less than 5 wt%, and optimally less than 1
wt%. The dispersion medium can comprise aqueous based systems or oil based systems.
[00153]     The structure of an exemplary new thickening agent, or rheology modifier, of
one embodiment, is a multiarm segmented star macromolecule wherein the core is
prepared by controlled radical polymerization using an arm-first method. Scheme 3
provides a simple four step procedure that can be employed for preparation of an initial
non-limiting exemplifying case the procedure is an atom transfer radical polymerization
arm first macroinitiator method. In this approach the precursor of the arm(s) comprise a
linear copolymer chain with a single terminal activatable group, as will be understood by
one skilled in the art, having this disclosure as a guide, the activatable arm precursor will
have a o-terminal functionality that under the conditions of the polymerization procedure
can reversibly generate a radical. Scheme 3 illustrates the concept by sequential
polymerization of styrene and tBA. These monomers are purely exemplary monomers
and should not limit the applicability of the procedure in any manner since other
monomers of similar phylicity can be employed. In Scheme 3 the polystyrene segment
can be considered the outer shell of the star and the final poly(acrylic acid) segments the
inner water soluble shell and the segment formed by chain extending the linear copolymer
macroinitiators by reaction with the divinylbenzene crosslinker the core of the star.
                                               38

              St
               p    -       -     controlled
                          ARGET ATRIP               Crosslinking             hydrolysis
         ICAR ATRP
                              tBA                      DVB
                      PSt                PSt-b-PtBA                 St
                                                                     Star                  Star
                                                                 PSt-b-PtBA             PSt-b-PAA
         Step 1           Step 2                        Step 3              Step 4
Scheme 3. Multistep synthesis of PSt-b-PAA block copolymer stars
[00154]       Similar structures can also be prepared using the macromonomer method or a
combination of the macromonomer and macroinitiator method in a controlled
polymerization process, or even through free radical copolymerization conducted on
macromonomers, as known to those skilled in the art. [Gao, H.; Matyjaszewski, K. Chem.
-Eur.J. 2009, 15, 6107-6111.]
[00155]      Both the macromonomer and macroinitiator procedures allow incorporation of
polymer segments prepared by procedures other than CRP [WO 98/01480] into the final
star macromolecule. Polymer segments can comprise segments that are bio-degradable of
are formed from monomers prepared from biological sources.
[00156]      As noted above the first formed ATRP macroinitiator can be prepared by
conducting a sequential ATRP (co)polymerization of hydrophobic and hydrophilic
monomers or precursors thereof or can be prepared by other polymerization procedures
that provide a functional terminal atom or group that can be converted into an ATRP
initiator with a bifunctional molecule wherein one functionality comprises a transferable
atom or group and the other functionality an atom or group that can react with the
functionality first present on the (co)polymer prepared by a non-ATRP procedure. [WO
98/01480]
[00157]      In aqueous solutions, the composition and molecular weight of the outer shell
of hydrophobes, or agents that participate in molecular recognition, can be selected to
induce self-assembly into aggregates and act as physical crosslinkers. Above a certain
concentration, corresponding to the formation of a reversible three dimensional network,
the solutions will behave as physical gels thereby modifying the rheology of the solution.
[00158]      In one embodiment, the polymer compositions of the invention have
significantly lower critical concentration for network (gel) formation compared to
                                                      39

networks formed with block copolymers, graft and stars with a low specific number of
attached arms due to:
     *  multi-arm structure (many transient junctions possible between hydrophobic parts
        of the stars)
     e  very high molecular weight of each star (5 thousand to 5 million or higher) allows
        high swelling ratio of the molecules in solution
     "  molecular organization on larger scales (>1 pLm)
100159]     Whereas the examples above and below describe the preparation and use of
block copolymers as arms with a well defined transition from one segment to the
adjoining segment a segmented copolymer with a gradient in composition can also be
utilized. The presence of a gradient can be created by addition of a second monomer
prior to consumption of the first monomer and will affect the volume fraction of
monomer units present in the transition form one domain to another. This would affect
the shear responsiveness of the formed star macromolecule.
[00160]      Star macromolecules with narrow polydispersity comprising arms with block
copolymer segments can be formed with as few as 5 arms by selecting appropriate
concentration of reagents, crosslinker and reaction temperature.
[00161]      Star macromolecules can be prepared in a miniemulsion or reverse
miniemulsion polymerization system. The first formed block copolymers are used as
reactive surfactants for star synthesis by reaction with a selected crosslinker in
miniemulsion.
                                              40

                                         EXAMPLES
Abbreviation    Name                                  Form    Purity   Commercial Source
St              styrene                               liquid  99%      Sigma Aldrich
tBA             tertiary-butyl acrylate               liquid  98%      Sigma Aldrich
AA              acrylic acid (formed by deprotection) NA      NA       NA
HEA             hydroxyethyl acrylate                 liquid  96%      Sigma Aldrich
DEBMM           diethyl 2-bromo-2-methylmalonate      liquid  98%      Sigma Aldrich
TPMA            tris(2-pyridylmethyl)amine            solid   95%      ATRP Solutions
AIBN            2,2'-Azobis(2-methylpropionitrile)    solid   98%      Sigma Aldrich
Sn(EH) 2        tin(II) 2-ethylhexanoate              liquid  95%      Sigma Aldrich
DVB             divinylbenzene                        liquid  80%      Sigma Aldrich
TFA             trifluroacetic acid                   liquid  99%      Sigma Aldrich
THF             tetrahydrofuran                       liquid  99.9%    Sigma Aldrich
NaOH            sodium hydroxide                      solid   98%      Sigma Aldrich
EBiB            Ethyl a-bromoisobutyrate              liquid  98%      Sigma Aldrich
                Methylene chloride                    liquid  99.6%    Sigma Aldrich
                Acetonitrile                          liquid  99.8%    Sigma Aldrich
NaCl            Sodium chloride                       solid   99.7%    Fisher Chemical
DMAEMA          2-(dimethylamino)ethyl methacrylate
PEGMA           (polyethylene glycol) methacrylate
NIPAM           N-isopropylacrylamide
Example 1: Synthesis, purification and properties of star thickening agent
[00162]     The initial examples of a star thickening agents with the structure shown
below in Figure 1 as structure A, are star macromolecules with PSt-b-PAA arms or PSt-b
P(HEA) arms.
[00163]     Example 1: Preparation of a (PSt-b-PAA)x Star Macromolecule.
[00164]     The simple four step procedure was developed for the preparation of a
poly(acrylic acid) based star macromolecule is described in Scheme 3. 1 kg of the star
macromolecule with PSt-b-PtBA arms was prepared as follows.
[00165]     STEP 1: Synthesis of a polystyrene macroinitiator using ICAR ATRP. The
reaction conditions are St / DEBMM / CuBr 2 / TPMA / AIBN         = 50 / 1 / 0.002 / 0.003 /
0.05 in bulk at T   = 60 C, t = 10.2 h. The reaction was run to ~30% conversion resulting
in the molecular weight of the hydrophobic, polystyrene segment      =  1600 which is
equivalent to an average degree of polymerization (DP) of 16.
[00166]     The GPC trace obtained for the macroinitiator is shown in Figure 2.
[00167]     STEP 2: Synthesis of polystyrene-b-poly(t-butyl acrylate) segmented block
copolymer macroinitiator. The reaction conditions for the synthesis of PSt-b-PtBA
                                               41

macroinitiator arm are: tBA / PSt / CuBr 2 / TPMA / Sn(EH) 2    = 200 / 1 / 0.01 / 0.06 /
0.008 in anisole (0.5 volume eq. vs. tBA), T=55 C, t=18.0 h. A higher molecular weight
precursor of the water soluble segment was targeted to allow significant degree of
swelling of the inner shell of the final functional star macromolecule. The final molecular
weight of the poly(t-butyl acrylate) segment in the block copolymer was ~15,400 which is
equivalent to a DP    =120.   The GPC curves of the polystyrene macroinitiator and the
formed block copolymer macroinitiator is shown in Figure 3 and clearly indicates that a
clean chain extension had occurred.
[00168]       STEP 3: Synthesis of the (PSt-b-PtBA)x star macromolecule.
[00169]      A multi-arm star macromolecule was prepared by conducting a further chain
extension reaction with the block copolymer macroinitiator formed in step 2. The
reaction was conducted with a mole ratio of block copolymer to divinylbenzene of 1:12 in
anisole. The reaction conditions are: DVB / PSt-b-PtBA / CuBr 2 / TPMA / Sn(EH) 2         = 12
/ 1 / 0.02 / 0.06 / 0.1 in anisole (38 volume eq. vs. DVB), T = 80 C, t = 21.0 h). The
GPC curves and results of the star forming reaction are provided in Figure 4. It can be
seen that a multi-arm star macromolecule with a crosslinked core was formed. The GPC
molecular weight of the star was 102,700 with a PDI 1.29, which would indicate an
average of six arms but this is an underestimate of the actual number of arms since the
star molecule is a compact molecule. Indeed in this situation the number of arms in the
star molecule is close to 30.
[00170]      The number of arms can be modified by conducting the core forming reaction
with a different ratio of crosslinking agent to arm precursor or by running the reaction
with a different concentration of reagents.
[00171]       STEP 4: Deprotection of the (PSt-b-PtBA)x star macromolecule to (PSt-b
PAA)x star block copolymer to provide water soluble poly(acrylic acid) segments in the
multi-arm star macromolecule. The PSt-b-PtBA arms of the star macromolecule were
transformed to PSt-b-PAA arms using a new procedure. Polymer was dissolved in
methylene chloride and trifluoroacetic acid to deprotect tBu groups, the reaction was
performed at room temperature for 60.0 h. Then polymer was decanted and washed 3
times with acetonitrile. Polymer was then solubilized in THF and precipitated into
acetonitrile. The star macromolecule was dried in vacuum oven for 3 days at 50 C. The
amount of polymer obtained after purification was 550 g, which would correspond to full
conversion of PtBA to PAA.
                                               42

Example 2: Properties of (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule as a thickening agent
[001721     The thickening properties of the final star macromolecule were investigated in
aqueous solution. 100 mg of (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule was dissolved in 0.5 ml of
THF and transferred to 10 ml of water. Solution was then neutralized with 2 ml of basic
water (with NaOH). After few minutes of stirring gel was formed, see image in Figure 5.
[00173]     The rheological properties of the multi-arm star built with a longer
poly(acrylic acid (PAA) hydrophilic internal core segment and a short hydrophobic
polystyrene (PSt) peripherial segment were then investigated. The viscosity of aqueous
solutions containing different concentrations of the star macromolecule vs. shear rate
were measured; using a Brookfield LVDV-E, Spindle #31(or #34, #25) at a T         = 25 'C,
and the results are presented in Figure 6. It is clear that even very low concentrations of
the star macromolecule in water (<0.6 weight%) the apparent viscosity of the sample is
very high (in the range of 50,000 to 100,000 centipoise (cP)).
[00174]     In comparison, leading thickening agents on the market for personal care
products (e.g. natural nonionic vegetable derived liquid thickener Crothix Liquid by
CRODA or synthetic acrylate based copolymer DOW CORNING RM 2051) are used at
the level of 2-5 weight% and only increase the viscosity of a water based solution up to
5,000 - 20,000 cP.
[00175]     Figure 7 presences the viscosity of aqueous solution of a (PSt-b-PAA) star
macromolecule vs. concentration. The measurement was conducted on a Brookfield
LVDV-E with spindle #31(or #34, #25) at a temperature        = 25 C and rate = 1 RPM. It
can be seen that for this particular star macromolecule 0.3 weight% concentration of star
macromolecule in water is a minimum amount for gel formation and that higher
concentrations significantly increase the viscosity of the resulting solution.
[00176]     Tests indicated that the thickening agent provided formulations that exhibited
a lack of tackiness, a very pleasant feel on the skin.
Example 3: Properties of (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule as thickening agents in
harsh environments
[00177]     The thickening properties of the final star macromolecule were investigated in
aqueous solution in the presence of an oxidizing agent and at high pH. Figure 8 presents
the viscosity of an aqueous solution of (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule and the viscosity
of water/windex (1/1 v/v) solution of (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule and Figure 9
presents the results obtained with Carbopol EDT 2020 in the same media. The pH of the
                                               43

aqueous solution was 6-7 while for the water/Windex solution pH        =  9-10. (Measurement
of viscosity was conducted using a Brookfield LVDV-E, Spindle #31 (or #34, #25), T        =
25 C.) It can be seen that viscosity of water/windex solution is higher than that of water
solution. The performance of (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule as thickening agent is not
diminished in this harsh environment presented by the windex/water solution with a pH =
9-10 resulting from the presence of high amount of ammonia-D. In comparison, the
thickening properties of the leading thickener on the market, Carbopol EDT 2020, were
decreased in similar conditions and Figure 9 shows that the viscosity of water/windex
solution is lower than that of pure aqueous solution.
[00178]     It is envisioned that the poor performance of Carbopol vs. (PSt-b-PAA) star
macromolecule as thickening agent in water/Windex solution is a consequence of the high
amount of ester bonds in its structure which can interact with the ionic species present in
such harsh environment or can be even degraded. On the other side (PSt-b-PAA) star
macromolecule has only C-C bonds, which make this thickening agent stable in
water/Windex solution and overall thickening performance is not decreased.
Example 4: Properties of (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule vs. (PAA) star
macromolecule as thickening agents
[00179]     A (PAA) star macromolecule was synthesized in order to compare its
properties to those determined for the (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule. Synthesis of
(PAA) star was performed in similar way as for synthesis of (PSt-b-PAA) star
macromolecule but starting with pure PtBA arms.
[00180]     The final (PAA) star had similar molecular weight, number of arms and
molecular weight distribution to the (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule, Figure 10. The
only one difference between two star macromolecules is the outer shell which comprises
of PSt with degree of polymerization 16 in (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule whereas this
star macromolecule posses pure PAA homo-polymeric arms. Figure 11 presents the
viscosity of aqueous solutions of (PSt-b-PAA) star and (PAA) star macromolecules. The
measurement was conducted using a Brookfield LVDV-E fitted with a #31 spindle at a
temperature   = 25 C and pH    = 7. It can be seen that viscosity of star macromolecule with
a hydrophobic outer shell has very strong thickening properties, where the pure (PAA)
star has low thickening effect on water.
[00181]     Therefore one can conclude that in order to thicken aqueous based media the
proposed multi-arm star macromolecules have to have a blocky structure, with a
                                               44

hydrophilic inner shell and a hydrophobic outer shell. Without wishing to be limited by a
proposed mechanism we believe these results in aqueous media can be explained by the
induced self-assembly of the hydrophobic segments into aggregates, the hydrophobes act
as "junctions" between aggregates, and above a certain concentration, a three-dimensional
reversible physical network is formed with a behavior similar to conventional gels.
Example 5: (PSt-b-PAA) star macromolecule as thickening and emulsifying agent
[00182]     Due to its very well-defined structure, (PSt-b-PAA) multi-arm star
macromolecule may act not only as a thickening agent but also as efficient emulsifying
agent. Figure12 presents images demonstrating the emulsifying properties of (PSt-b
PAA) star macromolecule. First photograph shows mixture of water with 2 volume % of
pure lemon oil. After vigorous mixing, water and oil quickly separated into two phases.
The second photograph presents water with 2 volume % of lemon oil and 0.6 weight % of
thickening agent. After vigorous mixing, the phase separation did not occur and thicken
properties did not decrease. Solutions were shaken for 1 min and photographs were taken
2 h after mixing.
[00183]     Its hydrophobic core (as well as hydrophobic outer shell) may act as a storage
place for small organic molecules (e.g. vitamins, fragrances, sunblock agents, etc.). This
provides for the possibility for delivery of functional organic molecules, e.g. fragrance for
slow release or UV absorbing molecules in sunscreens to any part of the body in a
pleasant feeling emulsion.
[00184]     In order to provide an equivalent response for non-polar media the phylicity of
the inner and outer shells would have to be reversed.
Example 6: Mikto-arm star macromolecules
[00185]     A multi-arm star macromolecule was synthesized. The procedures for forming
the arms PSt-b-PtBA and PtBA were similar to that described in Example 1. Next, two
different arms were crosslinked together to form a star macromolecule. Reaction
conditions for core forming crosslinking reaction:       DVB / [PSt-b-PtBA / PtBA] / CuBr2 /
TPMA / Sn(EH)2      =  17 / 1 / 0.02 / 0.06 / 0.2 in anisole (38 volume eq. vs. DVB), (1667
ppm of Cu) T=95 0 C, t= 53.0 h, PSt-b-PtBA / PtBA = 1 / 4. Next, PtBA was transformed
to PAA by deprotection with acid as described in Step 4 in Example 1.
                                                 45

[00186]      Figure 13 shows the GPC curves of the arms and the formed mikto-arm star
macromolecule before and after purification by precipitation. Schematic 13B shows a
representation of such a mikto-arm star macromolecule.
[00187]      Synthesis of stars with lower amounts of the outer PSt block was successfully
performed. Two stars were synthesized, one with 50% and one with 20% of PSt-b-PAA
arms and 50% and 80% pure PAA arms (WJ-08-006-234 and WJ-06-235) by the
procedures detailed above. Studies show that these star macromolecules can be dispersed
directly in warm water. Thickening properties of these two new stars were as good as first
exemplary star with 100% of PSt-b-PAA arms.
[00188]      Stars with different outer hydrophobic shells can be prepared. One example
that provides an outer shell which exhibits a Tg below use temperature is a star prepared
with a PnBA outer shell.
[00189]      Another approach which can reduce the cost of the preparing an outer
hydrophobic shell is conversion of commercially available a-olefins to an ATRP initiator
by reaction with a halo-alky(meth)acrylylhalide.
Example 7: Stars with different hydrophobic segments
[00190]      One parameter which may significantly change viscosity of thickening agent
as well as its interaction with surfactant in shampoo formulations is the type of
hydrophobic unit capped at the peripheral end of a fraction of the arms of the star
macromolecule. Two additional stars were synthesized in order to compare to (PSti 6
PAA 12 0)x (before deprotection: Mn,app=10 2 ,7 0 0 g/mol, PDI=1.29) star macromolecule.
[00191]      These stars include:
        A) C18-PAA1 4 6)x: Mn,app= 95,600 g/mol, PDI=1.48,
        B) C 12 -PAAi 3 4 ) x: Mn,app =113,900 g/mol, PDI=1.53,
[00192]      Each star was prepared in three steps:
        i)       preparation of PtBA arm,
        ii)      crosslinking arms into star macromolecule,
        iii)     deprotection of tBu groups. All of the stars had relatively low PDI with
                 low amount of unreacted arms (<15 wt%).
[00193]      A new PtBA macroinitiator was prepared from an initiator containing a linear
C18 alkyl chain for preparation of the (CI 8 -PAA1 4 6)x star. The synthesis of this arm
precursor C 18-PtBA-Br was accomplished using ARGET ATRP of tBA using C18 alkyl
                                                46

chain functionalized EBiB. The conditions and properties of synthesized polymer are
shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Experimental conditions and properties of PtBA prepared by ARGET ATRP.a
                        Molar ratios                   Cu     Time    Conv.           b         M,/
   Entry                                                                     Mn, thco   Mn, GPC
             tBA   I   CuBr 2        L      RA       [ppm]    (min)    (%)                      Mn
 08-006-       300   1  0.015         0.06    0.1        50     1380      47  18200      19700  1.19
    160                            TPMA
a 1=  CI 8-EBiB, L= Ligand, RA = reducing agent         =  Sn(EH) 2; [tBA]o=4.67 M; T=60 0C, in
anisole (0.5 volume equivalent vs. monomer); bMn, theo=([M]O/[Cl 8 -EBiB]o) x conversion
[00194]      This macroinitiator was than crosslinked using DVB into a star
macromolecule. After deprotection of tBu groups by stirring the reaction for 3 days in the
presence of TFA resulting in transformation to PAA units star was precipitated from
CH 2Cl 2 . The viscosity of resulting (Ci 8 -PAA)x star and the (C1 2-PAA)x star can be
compared to (PSt-b-PAA)x in water and shampoo formulations.
Example 8: Stars with an inner P(HEA) shell
[00195]      P(HEA) star macromolecules that comprise water soluble non-ionizable
hydrophilic segments selected to make the star macromolecules compatible with solutions
further comprising dissolved/dispersed salts that are additionally stable over a broad
range of pH.
[00196]      The PSt-b-PHEA arm precursor was prepared using ICAR ATRP. Conditions
for the polymerizations and characterization of the resulting polymer are shown in Table
2. Polymerization was well controlled and well-defined block copolymer was prepared
with relatively low (PDI=1.26 and 1.20) . This is the first example of successful ICAR
ATRP for acrylate type monomer. PSt-b-PHEA arm precursor was purified by
precipitation into ethyl ether and dried under vacuum over two days at 50 0C.
                                                  47

Table 2. Experimental conditions and properties of PSt-b-PHEA prepared by ICAR
ATRP.a
                           Molar ratios                   Cu     Time      Conv.             b         M/
   Entry                                                                            Mn, thco   Mn, GPC
              HEA     I    CuBr 2       L     RA        [ppm]    (min)      (%)                        Mn
 08-006-         200    1    0.04        0.04   0.1        200      1200       63     16100     30400   1.26
    155                               TPMA
 08-006-         300    1    0.05        0.05  0.05        167      1230       54    20300      42300   1.20
    158                               TPMA
"1=PSt (08-006-29, Mn=1600 g/mol, PDI=1.20), L= Ligand, RA        =  reducing agent =  AIBN; [HEA] 0 =5.44
           0
M; T=65 C, in DMF (0.7 volume equivalent vs. monomer);
b Mn, theo([M]O/[PSt]O) x conversion.
[00197]       Different crosslinking agents were investigated, including DVB and in run 08
006-159 di(ethylene glycol) diacrylate (DEGlyDA) and in run 08-006-161 DEGlyDA
with small amount of HEA monomer. The reaction was not fully controlled when
conversion of the added divinyl crosslinker was driven to high conversion as a
consequence of star-star core coupling reactions resulted in gel formation. However at
lower conversion of the crosslinker and under more dilute conditions star macromolecules
were formed.
Example 9: Preparation of a (PSt1 5-b-PAA           2 90 / PAAs1 5 0)Z30 Miktoarm Star
Macromolecule (referenced herein as Advantomer)
[00198]       The simple four step procedure was developed for the preparation of a
poly(acrylic acid) based miktoarm star macromolecule and is described in Scheme 4. 1
kg of the miktoarm star macromolecule with PSt-b-PAA and PAA arms (molar ratio of
arms 4/1) was prepared as follows.
                                                    48

            STEP 1                                       STEP 2
                                                                ARGET ATRP
  St       ICAR ATRP           ARGETATRP
                                   tBA                      at certain conversion
                                                                   + EtBiB
                        Pst                PSt-b-PtBA                             PSt-b-PtBA
                                                                                  and PtBA
              STEP 3                        STEP4
        Controlled
       crosslinking                         hydrolysis
           DVB
                           Star                                       Star
              [(PSt-b-PtBA), / (PtBA),] -DVB          [(PSt-b-PAA). / (PAA),] -DVB
Scheme 4. Multistep synthesis of [PSt-b-PAA / PAA] miktoarm stars copolymers
[00199]          STEP 1: Synthesis of a Polystyrene Macroinitiator (PSt) having 15 DP
[002001          A polystyrene macroinitiator was formed using ICAR ATRP by introducing
the following components into the reaction vessel at the following molar ratio: St /
DEBMM / CuBr 2 / TPMA / AIBN = 50 / 1 / 0.002 / 0.003 / 0.05 in bulk at T = 60 C, t=
10.2 h. The reaction was run to -30% conversion. The resulting reaction product was
purified to obtain the PSt in powder form. A portion of the PSt powder was dissolved in
THF and passed through the GPC column. The GPC trace obtained for the macroinitiator
is shown in Figure 2. The measured molecular weight of the hydrophobic, polystyrene
segment = 1600 which is equivalent to an average degree of polymerization (DP) of about
15-16 and the PDI was measured to be 1.24.
[00201]          STEP 2: One-Pot Synthesis of Polystyrene-b-Poly(t-Butyl Acrylate) and
Poly(t-Butyl Acrylate) Macroinitiator
[00202]          The following components were introduced into the reaction vessel in the
following molar ratio: tBA / PSt (from step 1)/ CuBr 2 / TPMA / Sn(EH) 2 = 200 / 0.2 /
0.01 / 0.06 / 0.1, in anisole (0.5 volume eq. vs. tBA), T=55 C. About 2.0 hours after the
reaction was initiated, the conversion of the tBA reached about 6 % and a portion of the
PSt-b-PtBA was recovered and measured by GPC with the following results Mn = 19,800
g/mol; PDI = 1.16. It was determiend that the following PSt 15 -b-PtBA14 0 copolymeric
block was obtained. Then, 0.8 molar ratio amount, relative to the initially introduced
components, of Ethyl 2-bromoisobutyrate (EBiB) was injected into the polymerization
                                                             49

mixture. The reaction was continued and stopped after about 19.8 h. The reaction product
was purified and the product was analyzed by GPC. Based on the GPC measured values
the final molecular weight of the product was determined to be poly(t-butyl acrylate)
segment in the block copolymer was ~37,200 g/mol (PSt 1 5 -b-PtBA 290) and the molecular
weight of poly(t-butyl acrylate) initiated from EBiB was 19,200 g/mol which is
equivalent to a DP =150. The overall molecular weight of mixture of arms resulted in M"
= 20,800 g/mol and PDI     = 1.27. The GPC curves of the polystyrene macroinitiator and
the mixture of formed block copolymer arms PSt 15 -b-PtBA 29 0 and poly(t-butyl acrylate)
arms PtBA1 50 are shown in Figure 23. The signal from block copolymer is overlapping
with signal from homopolymer but this result clearly indicates that a clean chain
extension from PSt had occurred.
[00203]      STEP 3: Synthesis of the (PSt-b-PtBA / PtBA)        30 Miktoarm Star
Macromolecule.
[00204]     A mikto multi-arm star macromolecule was prepared by conducting a further
chain extension reaction with the block copolymer and homopolymer macroinitiators
formed in step 2. The reaction was conducted with a mole ratio of macroinitiators to
divinylbenzene of 1:16 in anisole. The following components were introduced into the
reaction vessel in the following molar ratio: DVB / [PSt-b-PtBA / PtBA] (from step 2) /
CuBr 2 / TPMA / Sn(EH) 2     = 16 / 1 / 0.02 / 0.07 / 0.15 in anisole (38 volume eq. vs. DVB),
T  = 95 'C, t = 20.6 h. The reaction product was purified and the product was analyzed by
GPC. The GPC curves and results of the star forming reaction are provided in Figure 24.
It can be seen that a multi-arm star macromolecule with a crosslinked core was formed.
The GPC apparent molecular weight of the star was 109,400 with a PDI 1.52, which
would indicate an average of six arms but this is an underestimate of the actual number of
arms since the star molecule is a compact molecule. Indeed in this situation, the number
of arms in the star molecule is close to 30.
[00205]     The number of arms can be modified by conducting the core forming reaction
with a different ratio of crosslinking agent to arm precursor or by running the reaction
with a different concentration of reagents.
[00206]      STEP 4: Deprotection of the (PSt-b-PtBA / PtBA) to (PSt-b-PAA / PAA)
[00207]     Deprotection of the (PSt-b-PtBA / PtBA)       30 star macromolecule to (PSt-b
PAA / PAA) 3o star block copolymer to provide water soluble poly(acrylic acid) segments
in the mikto multi-arm star macromolecule. The PSt-b-PtBA / PtBA arms of the
miktoarm star macromolecule were transformed to PSt-b-PAA / PAA arms with the
                                                50

following procedure. Polymer was dissolved in methylene chloride and trifluoroacetic
acid to deprotect tBu groups, the reaction was performed at room temperature for 60.0 h.
Then polymer was decanted and washed 3 times with acetonitrile. Polymer was then
solubilized in THF and precipitated into acetonitrile. The star macromolecule was dried in
vacuum oven for 3 days at 50 C. The amount of polymer obtained after purification was
550 g, which would correspond to full conversion of PtBA to PAA.
Test Results Table - comparing the star macromolcule formed in Example 9
(Advantomer) against commerically available thickening agent, Carbopol ETD 2020.
                                    Advantomer
Properties                          (as formed in         Carbopol ETD 2020
                                _ __ Example 9)        _
Dynamic Viscosity (@lrpm) 25,830 cP @ 0.2wt%             48,000 cP @ 0.2wt%
Salt-Induced Break Value          87.8% @ 0.7wt%           52.4% @ 0.4wt%
pH-Induced Break Value            99.3% @ 0.4wt%           12.6% @ 0.2wt%
Sheer-Thinning Value               32.7@ 0.2wt%              12.9@ 0.2wt%
Strong Gel                               Yes                      Yes
Emulsion Value                        > 12 hours                < 5 min.
HLM                                     >0.96                     N/A
Test Procedures
[002081       Sample Preparation
[00209]      Aqueous gel compositions were prepared at various concentrations (e.g., 0.2
wt.%, 0.25 wt%, 0.4 wt.% 0.6 wt.%, 0.7 wt.% and 1.0 wt.%) by heating and stirring, as
necessary (e.g., vigorously mixing at a temperature of about 60 'C) the sample material
(e.g., a star macromolecular powder or Carbopol ETD 2020) into water pH adjusted, as
necessary, (e.g., a pH of about 7.5 with addition of sodium hydroxide) to obtain a
homogenous mixture.
[00210]      Dynamic Viscosity & Shear-Thinning Test Procedure
[00211]      A portion of the sample preparation was introduced into a Brookfield LVDV
E Digital Viscometer, using spindle #31 for mixing, at STP, over a wide range of rates
(e.g, 0.3-100 rpm) and the shear rate and viscosity was recorded. Viscosity measurements
were taken in the following sequence without stopping the instrument, 0.3, 0.5, 1, 2, 5,
10, 20, 30, 50, and 100rpm. The dynamic viscosity was determined as the viscosity in
                                              51

centipoise (cP) at 0.3 rpm. A shear-thinning value was determined by dividing the
dynamic viscosity value at 0.3 rpm by the dynamic viscosity value at 20rpm.
                                                             Viscosity [cP]
                                                  Advantomer            Carbopol
    Shear Rate [s'1               rpm                0.2 wt%             0.2 wt%
           0.102                   0.3                 67100              85000
            0.17                   0.5                 46980              65600
            0.34                     1                 25830              48000
            0.68                    2                  13880              23300
             1.7                    5                   6580               15800
             3.4                    10                  3620               10400
             6.8                   20                   2050               6600
            10.2                   30                   1480               4800
             17                    50                   1000               3300
             34                    100                   690               2250
Salt-Induced Break Test Procedure
[00212]       A portion of the sample preparation was introduced into 20 ml glass
scintillation vial. A measured portion of NaCl was added into the vial (e.g., 0.05 wt.%
relative to the total weight of the sample in the vial. After the NaCl addition was
complete, the vial was closed and shaken for 10 min. Then, the viscosity of the sample
was measured in accordance with the Dynamic Viscosity & Shear-Thinning Test
Procedure, above, and the dynamic viscosity at 1 rpm was recorded. This procedure was
repeated for differing concentrations of NaCl. The results are presented in Figures 18 &
22. The salt-induced break value, in percent, is determined by the following equation:
[00213]        Initial Dynamic Viscosity (0% NaCl) -Dynamic Viscosity (0.05 wt.%
NaCl)/Initial Dynamic Viscosity (0% NaCl) x 100%.
pH Efficiency Range Test Procedure
[00214]       An aqueous gel composition at 0.4 wt.% was prepared for the star
macromolecule of Example 9, at a starting pH of around 5 and a separate aqueous gel
composition at 0.2 wt.% aqueous gel composition of Carbopol ETD 2020, at a starting pH
of around 3, was prepared by mixing and heating, as necessary (e.g., vigorous mixing at
a temperature of about 60 'C). Then, the viscosity of the sample was measured in
                                               52

accordance with the Dynamic Viscosity & Shear-Thinning Test Procedure, above, and the
dynamic viscosity at 1 rpm was recorded. This procedure was repeated for differing pH
values, adjusted by addition of sodium hydroxide. The results are presented in Figure 19.
The ph-induced break value, in percent, is determined by the following equation:
[00215]       Dynamic Viscosity (at 1 rpm) at pH 7.5 -Dynamic Viscosity (at 1 rpm) at pH
5/ Dynamic Viscosity (at 1rpm) at pH 7.5 x 100%.
Emulsion Test Procedure
[002161      340mL of water was added to a 500ml beaker and stirred vigorously with an
overhead stirrer. 1.6 g of the material to be tested for emulsifying effect was added and
heated to 80C. The solution was pH adjusted with 400 mg of NaOH and stirring
continued until a homogeneous gel was obtained. 60ml sunflower oil was added while
vigorous stirring was continued with an overhead stirrer at 80C for 10min or until
homogenous emulsion is obtained. The mixture was allowed to cool to room
temperature. Once the system cools to room temperature start timer. The emulsion value
is the time, in minutes, it takes for the system to form two visible layers (phase
separation).
Strong Gel Test Procedure
[00217]      10 ml portion of the sample preparation material was introduced into a 20 ml
glass scintillation vial. After the transfer was complete, the vial was placed on a surface
and remained undisturbed for about 20 minutes at STP. The vial was then gently inverted
(turned-upside down) and placed on the surface and a timer started. If after 5 minutes,
there is no visible flow then the sample is said to be a strong gel.
[00218]      Hydrophilic-Lipophilic (HLB) Arm/Segment Calculation
[00219]      HLB = 20 * Mh / M
where Mh is the molecular mass of the hydrophilic portion of the polymeric arm or
segment, and M is the molecular mass of the whole polymeric arm or segment.
[00220]      Hydrophilic-Lipophilic Macromolecule Calculation
                        SMWOCHLB,       / 20              0. 3MW     + -, MW"
                HLM  =                        divided by                7-1
where
     MWITis the molecular weight for the respective arm,
                                               53

   HLBa is the HLB, as calculated from the HLB arm calculation, for the respective arm,
   and
   MWcore is the molecular weight for the core, and
   M is the total number of arms.
[00221]     The disclosed star macromolecules can find utility in a spectrum of
applications including, but not limited to; personal care: including
shampoos/conditioners, lotions, serums, creams, solids, gelly, cosmetics: including
mascara, blush, lip stick, powders, perfumes and home care: including cleaners for
windows, household and work surfaces, toilet areas, laundry, and in dish and dishwasher
applications.
                                              54

CLAIMS
1.       A star macromolecule represented by Formula X:
                        Formula X       [(P 1)qi-(P 2 )q2]t-Core-[(P 3 )q3],
wherein:
     Core      represents a crosslinked polymeric segment;
     P1        represents a homopolymeric segment comprised of repeat units of
               monomeric residues of polymerized hydrophobic monomers;
     P2        represents a homopolymeric segment comprised of repeat units of
               monomeric residues of polymerized hydrophilic monomers;
     P3        represents a homopolymeric segment comprised of repeat units of
               monomeric residues of polymerized hydrophilic monomers;
     ql        represents the number of repeat units in P1 and has a value between 1 and
               50;
     q2        represents the number of repeat units in P2 and has a value between 30
               and 500;
     q3        represents the number of repeat units in P3 and has a value between 30
               and 500;
     r         represents the number of homopolymeric arms covalently attached to the
               Core;
     t         represents the number of copolymeric arms covalently attached to the
               Core; and
wherein the molar ratio of r to t is in the range of between 20:1 and 2:1.
2.       The star macromolecule of claim 1, wherein the one or more star
macromolecules have a molecular weight of between 150,000 g/mol and 600,000
g/mol.
3.       The star macromolecule of claim 1, wherein the sum total number of arms (r +
t) is between 15 and 45.
                                               55

4.        The star macromolecule of claim 1, wherein the molar ratio of r to t is in the
range of between 8:1 and 3:1.
5.        The star macromolecule of claim 1, wherein both q2 and q3 have a value greater
than 100, and wherein q2 is greater than q3.
6.        The star macromolecule of claim 1, wherein the arms represented by [(P1)qi
(P 2 )q2] have an HLB value greater than 18.
7.        The star macromolecule of claim 1, wherein the P1 homopolymeric segment is
a hydrophobic homopolymeric segment having an HLB value of less than 7.
8.        The star macromolecule of claim 1, wherein the core comprises a hydrophobic
crosslinked polymeric segment.
9.        The star macromolecule of claim 1, wherein the star macromolecule is a water
soluble mikto star macromolecule.
10.       The star macromolecule of claim 1, wherein the star macromolecule, when
dissolved in water at a concentration of at least 0.2 wt.%, forms a clear, homogeneous
gel having a viscosity of at least 20,000 cP.
11.       A star macromolecule having a molecular weight of between 150,000 g/mol and
600,000 g/mol that forms a clear, homogeneous gel when dissolved in water at a
concentration of at least 0.2 wt.%;
wherein the gel has:
          i)    a dynamic viscosity of at least 20,000 cP;
          ii)   a salt-induced break value of at least 60%;
          iii)  a shear-thinning value of at least 10; and/or
          iv)   an emulsion value of greater than 12 hours.
                                               56

12.     The star macromolecule of claim 11, wherein the gel-forming star
macromolecule has a viscosity of greater than 40,000 cP at a pH between 6 to 11.
13.     The star macromolecule of claim 11, wherein the gel-forming star
macromolecule has a viscosity of less than 5,000 cP at a shear rate of 4 sec-1 .
14.     The star macromolecule of claim 11, wherein the gel-forming star
macromolecule has a PDI of less than 2.5.
15.     The star macromolecule of claim 11, wherein the gel-forming star
macromolecule is a water-soluble mikto star macromolecule.
16.     The star macromolecule of claim 11, wherein the gel-forming star
macromolecule has between 15 to 45 arms.
17.     The star macromolecule of claim 11, wherein the arms of the gel-forming star
macromolecule comprise hydrophilic homopolymeric arms and copolymeric arms,
comprising hydrophilic polymeric segments and hydrophobic polymeric segments.
18.     The star macromolecule of claim 17, wherein the arms of the gel-forming star
macromolecule have an HLB of between 18 and 20.
19.     An emulsion comprising:
a water-soluble star macromolecule having:
     i)    a molecular weight of at least 150,000 g/mol; and
     ii)   a dynamic viscosity of at least 20,000 cP at a concentration of 0.4 wt.%.
20.     The emulsion of claim 19, wherein the emulsion is an emulsifier-free emulsion.
                                            57

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
