Abstract
An electrical barrier 10 is mounted to a support surface 220. An active conductor 210 is
disposed on top of the support surface 220, with an electrically insulating material 230
interposed between the active conductor 210 and the support surface 220.              The active
conductor 210 is a highly conductive material. A voltage is supplied by a power source 120
through the active terminal 122 to the active conductor 210. The active conductor is disposed
flush, slightly below or slightly above a support surface and protects against pests and vermin.

80       7/7
      FIGURE 7
                 80
   80          95
      FIGURE 8

                                                   1
ELECTRICAL BARRIER
Field of the Invention
[1]      The present invention relates to an electrical device for warding off animals. More
particularly, the present invention relates to a ground laid electrical barrier for warding off
vermin (pests).
Background of the Invention
[2]      There exists a number of means by which to prevent, or at least deter, unwanted
animals from entering homes and other areas. Such means include mechanical traps, poison,
and ultrasonic emitters.
[3]      One disadvantage associated with mechanical traps and poisons is that they inevitably
result in the killing of the animal. The dead animal needs therefore to be disposed of, and the
trap or poison reset/refilled. Further, it is not always desirable to kill the animal as many
animals serve an important function in the local ecosystem around the area. Still further,
mechanical traps and poisons are effectively only as a point defence means. They are of
limited effectiveness when a perimeter or barrier is to be defended.
[4]      Ultrasonic emitters on the other hand do not harm the animal. However, they are
effective only on certain animals and have a limited ranged. Further, the perimeter of their
effectiveness cannot be accurately set.
[5]      The present invention seeks to overcome or substantially ameliorate at least some of
the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
[6]      It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the common
general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Invention
[7]      The present invention provides an electrical barrier comprising:
         an elongated support track comprising a base and an upper wall which is arched
between lateral edges of the base, wherein the upper wall comprises at plurality of spaced
parallel recesses extending along its length,
         a first active conductor for conducting an electrical potential disposed along one of the
         recesses,
         a secondary conductor for conducting an electrical potential disposed along another of
         the recesses, the second conductor spaced from the first active conductor, and

                                                 2
         a power source for providing a potential difference between the first active conductor
         and the secondary conductor.
[8]      In one embodiment, the electrical barrier further comprises a third active conductor for
conducting an electrical potential disposed along one of the recesses, wherein the second
conductor is disposed between the first and third active conductors, and wherein the power
source supplies a potential difference between the third active conductor and the secondary
conductor.
[9]      In another embodiment, the support track is made from non-conducting material.
[10]     In another embodiment, the support track is made from conducting material, and
wherein the first, second and third conductors are electrically insulated from the support track.
[11]     In another embodiment, the base comprises at least one indexing flute, and the
electrical barrier further comprises alignment pins to be received in the indexing flutes for
connecting adjacent support tracks
[12]     In another embodiment, the support track comprises a perimeter barrier for bounding
a protected area.
[13]     In another embodiment, the power source provides a first potential difference between
the first active conductor and the support track.
[14]     In another embodiment, the power source provides a second potential difference
between the secondary conductor and the support track.
[15]     In another embodiment, the first potential difference is greater than the second
potential difference.
[16]     In another embodiment, the conductors have different widths.
[17]     According to a another embodiment, the present invention provides an electrical
barrier comprising an active conductor for conducting an electrical potential, the active
conductor adapted to be disposed flush, slightly below or slightly above a support surface and
electrically insulated from the support surface.
[18]     In a preferred embodiment, the active conductor comprises an elongate member for
extending across an area.
[19]     In a preferred embodiment, the active conductor comprises a perimeter strip for
bounding a protected area.
[20]     In a preferred embodiment, the electrical barrier further comprises a power source for
providing electrical potential to the active conductor.

                                               3
[21]    In a preferred embodiment, the electrical barrier further comprises an insulating
material for supporting the active conductor on the support surface.
[22]    In a preferred embodiment, the insulating material comprises a non-conductive
material co-extensive with the active conductor.
[23]    In another preferred embodiment, the insulating material comprises spaced non
conductive members for supporting the active conductor.
[24]    In a preferred embodiment, the active conductor is 0.1 mm to 25 mm wide.
[25]    In a preferred embodiment, the active conductor is 0.1 mm to 10 mm in height.
[26]    In a preferred embodiment, the insulating material is 0.1 mm to 25 mm wide.
[27]    In a preferred embodiment, the insulating material is 0.1 mm to 10 mm in height.
[28]    In a preferred embodiment, the power source is adapted to provide a differential
voltage between the conductor and the support surface.
[29]    In a preferred embodiment, the electrical barrier further comprises at least one
additional active conductor.
[30]    In a preferred embodiment, the support surface is a support plate electrically
connected to Earth in use.
[31]    In a preferred embodiment, the electrical barrier further comprises a secondary
conductor disposed on the support surface spaced from the active conductor.
[32]    In a preferred embodiment, the electrical barrier further comprises a further insulating
material for supporting the secondary conductor on the support surface.
[33]    In another preferred embodiment, the secondary conductor is directly disposed on the
support surface.
[34]    In a preferred embodiment, the secondary conductor has an electrical potential in use.
[35]    In a preferred embodiment, a first potential difference exists between the active
conductor and Earth.
[36]    In a preferred embodiment, a second potential difference exists between the
secondary conductor and Earth.
[37]    In a preferred embodiment, the first potential difference is greater than the second
potential difference.
[38]    In another preferred embodiment, the first potential difference is smaller than the
second potential difference.

                                                 4
[39]    In a preferred embodiment, a third potential difference exists between the active
conductor and the secondary conductor.
[40]    In a preferred embodiment, the electrical barrier comprises a plurality of spaced active
conductors.
[41]    In a preferred embodiment, the electrical barrier comprises a plurality of spaced
secondary conductors.
[42]    In a preferred embodiment, the active conductor is a wire or a flat metal strip. The
active conductor can however be any conductive material.
[43]    In a preferred embodiment, wherein the secondary conductor is a wire or a flat metal
strip.
[44]    In a preferred embodiment, the insulating material is selected from the group consisting
of: wood, rubber, plastic, ceramic, non-conductive putty, silicone, glazed coating, paint, epoxy,
polymeric material, insulation tape, polyethylene sheet, linoleum and glazed ceramic tile or
any combination thereof.
[45]    In a preferred embodiment, one or more of the plurality of active conductors has a
width different to that of the remaining active conductors.
[46]    In a preferred embodiment, the plurality of active conductors are adapted to be
disposed at different heights from the support surface in use.
[47]    In a preferred embodiment, wherein the plurality of active conductors are adapted to
be disposed at increasing heights from the support surface in use.
[48]    In a preferred embodiment, one or more of the plurality of secondary conductors has
a width different to that of the remaining secondary conductors.
[49]    In a preferred embodiment, the active conductors interpose the secondary conductors.
[50]    In a preferred embodiment, a spacing between adjacent conductors is between 0.4 cm
and 30 cm.
[51]    In a preferred embodiment, the spacing between adjacent conductors is non-uniform.
[52]    In a preferred embodiment, the plurality of active conductors and plurality of secondary
conductors are physically integrated as a strip.
[53]    In a preferred embodiment, the strip terminates at a first end in a plurality of plugs, one
for each active conductor and secondary conductor in the strip.
[54]    In a preferred embodiment, the strip terminates at a second end in a plurality of ports,
one for each active conductor and secondary conductor in the strip.

                                                  5
[55]     In a preferred embodiment, the electrical barrier comprises a plurality of strips, a first
strip electrically connected to a second strip by the plugs of the first strip and the ports of the
second strip.
[56]     In a preferred embodiment, the support plate comprises at least one lateral ridge
extending along the active conductor.
[57]     The present invention in another aspect provides an electrical barrier comprising a
conductor disposed to be flush, slightly below or slightly above a support surface and
electrically isolated from the support surface, the electrical barrier adapted to provide a
differential voltage between the conductor and the support surface.
[58]     In another embodiment, the electrical barrier further comprises a support track for
supporting the active conductor.
[59]     In another preferred embodiment, the track in comprises a base and at least one
indexing flute.
[60]     In another embodiment, the electrical barrier further comprises alignment pins to be
received in the indexing flutes for connecting adjacent tracks
[61]     In another preferred embodiment, the track comprises an upper wall having at least
one recess for receiving the active conductor.
[62]     In another preferred embodiment, the upper wall comprises three spaced parallel
recesses for receiving active conductors.
[63]     In another preferred embodiment, the upper wall is arched.
[64]     Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[65]     Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present
invention, preferred embodiments of the present invention will now be described, by way of
examples only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[66]     Fig. 1 is a schematic top view of an electrical barrier according to a first preferred
embodiment of the present invention;
[67]     Fig. 2 is a cross section view of the electrical barrier along line A-A of Fig. 1;
[68]     Fig. 3 is a schematic top view of an electrical barrier according to a second preferred
embodiment of the present invention;
[69]     Fig. 4 is a cross section view of the electrical barrier along line A-A of Fig. 3;
[70]     Fig. 5 is a perspective view of an example electrical barrier set to protect an area;

                                                   6
[71]     Fig. 6 is a schematic perspective view of an electrical barrier according to a third
preferred embodiment of the present invention
[72]     Fig. 7 shows a track 80 for an electrical barrier according to another embodiment; and
[73]     Fig, 8 (a) to (c) shows the use of alignment pins for aligning and connecting the tracks
of Figure 7.
Description of Embodiments
[74]     It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference numerals
in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
[75]     Referring to Fig. 1, an electrical barrier 10 according to a first preferred embodiment of
the present invention is illustrated. The electrical barrier 10 comprises a rectangular perimeter
strip 100 bounding a protected area 110. The perimeter strip 100 is connected to a power
source 120 and includes an electrically conducting material.
[76]     The protected area 110 can be any surface, such as a ground surface, a vertical or
inclined wall, a ceiling, a curved surface, a vehicle surface or any combination thereof.
[77]     Referring to Fig. 2, a cross section of the perimeter strip 100 along line A-A of Fig. 1 is
illustrated. The perimeter strip 100 includes an active conductor 210 insulated from Earth by
an insulating material 230. Returning to Fig. 1, the active conductor 210 is connected to an
active terminal 122 of the power source 120.
[78]     Returning to Fig. 2, a construction of the electrical barrier 10 is described. The electrical
barrier 10 is mounted to a support surface 220 which can be any support surface such as
concrete, wood, steel, masonry, fibreglass, carbon fibre, etc. The active conductor 210 is
disposed on top of the support surface 220, with the electrically insulating material 230
interposed between the active conductor 210 and the support surface 220. The support
surface 220 can alternatively be made of an electrically conductive material such as an
elongate metal plate. The metal plate is configured to form a stable and wide contact patch
with the surface beneath it.
[79]     The active conductor 210 is a highly conductive material such as copper, iron, or steel
and in the embodiment is in the form of a flat strip, preferably 0.1 mm to 25 mm wide and 0.1
mm to 10 mm thick. Alternatively, the active conductor 210 can be round cross-section wire
shaped of 0.1 mm to 10 mm in diameter.
[80]     The electrical insulating material 230 is non-conductive and co-extensively supports
the active conductor 210 along its length. The electrical insulating material 230 may be a solid
material such as wood, rubber, ceramic, plastic, or other non-conductive material, or may be
an initially liquid or gel-like material such as silicone paste or putty which solidifies. The

                                                 7
electrical insulating material 230 in the embodiment is similarly dimensioned as the active
conductor 210 and thus spaces the active conductor 210 from the support surface 220 by a
distance of 0.1 mm to 10 mm. The thickness of the electrical insulating material 230 is chosen
to optimally ensure that a pest will contact the active conductor 210 whilst a part of the pest is
in contact with the support surface 220. The insulating material can also comprise glazed
coating, paint, epoxies and polymeric materials such as insulation tape or polyethylene sheet
which spaces the active conductor 210 from the support surface 220 by a distance of 0.1 mm
to 10 mm.
[81]    The active conductor 210 and the electrically insulating material 230 may also be
integrated as a single material, such as a flexible printed circuit board, film or printed tape.
[82]    A voltage supplied by the power source 120 through the active terminal 122 to the
active conductor 210 has a potential higher and/or lower than Earth (support surface 220)
such that a potential difference exists between the active conductor 210 and Earth (support
surface 220). A neutral terminal 124 of the power source 120 is connected to Earth (support
surface 220). The power source 120 may be a DC source or an AC source.
[83]     In operation, the perimeter strip 100 is laid around a surface area (the protected area
110) to be kept free of ground/surfaced based animals such as insects, marsupials, mammals,
reptiles and general vermin and pests. The active conductor 210 is connected to the power
source 120, and the power source 120 is activated to provide the perimeter strip 100 with a
potential. As the active conductor 210 of the perimeter strip 100 is insulated from Earth by the
insulating material 230, the circuit comprising the active terminal 122 and the active conductor
210 with the neutral terminal 124 and support surface 220 is open, and no current flows
therebetween.
[84]    The circuit is caused to be closed when an animal bridges the active conductor 210
and Earth (support surface 220). Upon bridging the active conductor 210 and Earth (support
surface 220), the animal's body connects the active conductor 210 to Earth and causes a
current to flow through the animal's body to/from the active conductor 210. The passing of the
current through the animal's body causes a discomfort to the animal in the form of an electrical
shock. This discomfort, together with the surprise of the shock, discourages the animal from
proceeding further forward towards the protected area 110 and is likely to startle the animal
backwards away from the protected area 110.
[85]    An electrical barrier 10 with a single active conductor 210 causes up to two shocks to
an animal crossing over the perimeter strip 100. A first shock is experienced by the animal
when the animal first steps on the perimeter strip 100, as a current is passed from the front of
the animal that is in contact with the perimeter strip 100 through to the rear of the animal that

                                                     8
is still in contact with Earth. A second shock is experienced if the animal attempts to push
through the electrical barrier 10, as a current is passed from the rear of the animal that is now
in contact with the active conductor 210 through to the front of the animal that is now in contact
with Earth.
[86]      The electrical barrier 10 of the present invention therefore acts as an effective barrier
deterring ground/surfaced based animals from entering the protected area 110 without
necessarily harming the animal in a fatal manner.
[87]      Whilst Figs. 1 and 2 illustrate one active conductor 210, it is to be understood that a
plurality of spaced active conductors 210 may be provided. The spaced active conductors for
example can be spaced in a parallel manner, with sections of the active conductors being
parallel to each other. In the embodiment having a plurality of active conductors 210, the
'inner' active conductor 210 (closer to the protected area 110) can for example be spaced from
the support surface 220 higher than the outer active conductor 210. This combines a physical
and electrical deterrence, and increases the deterrence to the animal from entering the
protected area 110. It can also urge in a direction away from the protected area 110.
[88]      Referring to Fig. 3, an electrical barrier 30 according to a second preferred embodiment
of the present invention is illustrated. The electrical barrier 30 has a perimeter strip 300
bounding a protected area 110, similar to the electrical barrier 10 of the first embodiment. The
perimeter strip 300 is connected to a power source 120 and is constructed of an electrically
conducting material.
[89]      Referring to Fig. 4, a cross section of the perimeter strip 300 along line A-A of Fig. 3 is
illustrated. The perimeter strip 300 includes three spaced conductor sub-assemblies 304,
306a and 306b, laid along the support surface 220. The sub-assemblies 304, 306a and 306b
in the example shown are each rectangular in cross-section and comprises generally parallel
sections. The sub-assembly 304 is disposed between the sub-assemblies 306a and 306b,
with the sub-assembly 306a being disposed closest to the protected area 110.
[90]      The sub-assembly 304 comprises an active conductor 310 insulated from Earth
(support surface 220) via an electrical insulating material 230. The sub-assemblies 306a and
306b each comprise secondary conductors 320a and 320b insulated from Earth (support
surface 220) via respective electrical insulating material 230.
[91]      The support surface 220 can be made of an electrically conductive material such as
an elongate metal plate or other conductive flexible material, which will act as the support
means for the conductor sub-assemblies 304, 306a and 306b.

                                                   9
[92]     Returning to Fig. 3, the active conductor 310 is connected to an active terminal 122 of
the power source 120, and the secondary conductors 320 are connected to a neutral terminal
124 of the power source 120. Whilst Figs. 3 and 4 illustrate one active conductor 310 and two
secondary conductors 320, it is to be understood that more than one active conductor may be
provided, and one or more than two secondary conductors 320 may also be provided.
[93]     A voltage supplied by the power source 120 through the active terminal 122 to the
active conductor 310 has a potential higher and/or lower than Earth. In a first aspect of the
second embodiment, the secondary conductors 320 are insulated from Earth similar to the
active conductor 310, and provided with a potential preferably different to that of the active
conductor 310 by the neutral terminal 124 of the power source 120. In a second aspect of the
second embodiment, the neutral terminal 124 of the power source 120 is connected to Earth
and the secondary conductors 320 are accordingly earthed.
[94]     In operation, the perimeter strip 300 is connected to the power source 120 and laid
around an area (the protected area 110) to be kept free of ground/surfaced based animals
such as insects, marsupials, mammals, reptiles and general vermin and pests. The power
source 120 is activated to provide the perimeter strip 300 with a potential.
[95]     In the case of the first aspect of the second embodiment, the perimeter strip 300 has
three potential differences. A first potential difference exists between the active conductor 310
and Earth. A second potential difference exists between the secondary conductors 320 and
Earth. A third potential difference exists between the active conductor 310 and the secondary
conductors 320.
[96]     In the case of the second aspect of the second embodiment, the perimeter strip 300
has a single potential difference, namely the potential difference between the active conductor
310 and Earth.
[97]     As the active conductor 310 of the perimeter strip 300 is insulated from Earth, the
circuit comprising of the active terminal 122 of the power source 120 and the active conductor
310 of the perimeter strip 300 is open, and no current flows therethrough. Similarly, in the first
aspect of the second embodiment, the circuit comprising of the secondary conductors 320 and
the neutral terminal 124 of the power source 120 is also open as the secondary conductors
320 are insulated from Earth.
[98]     The circuit is caused to be closed when an animal bridges the active conductor 310
and Earth (support surface 220). Upon bridging the active conductor 310 and Earth, the
animal's body connects the active conductor 310 to Earth and causes a current to flow through
the animal's body to/from the active conductor 310.

                                                10
[99]    The circuit is also caused to be closed when an animal bridges the active conductor
310 and one of the secondary conductors 320. Upon bridging the active conductor 310 and
one of the secondary conductors 320, the animal's body connects the active conductor 310 to
one of the secondary conductors 320 and causes a current to flow through the animal's body
to/from the active conductor 310. The magnitude of the current flowing through the animal's
body when the animal bridges the active conductor 310 and one of the secondary conductors
320 depends on whether the secondary conductor 320 is earthed (as with the second aspect
of the second embodiment) or whether the secondary conductor 320 is insulated from Earth
and provided with a potential difference relative to Earth (as with the first aspect of the second
embodiment).
[100]   As with the electrical barrier 10 of the first embodiment, the passing of the current
through the animal's body causes a discomfort to the animal in the form of an electrical shock.
This discomfort, together with the surprise of the shock, discourages the animal from
proceeding further forward towards the protected area 110 and is likely to startle the animal
backwards away from the protected area 110.
[101]   When implemented according to the first aspect of the second embodiment, the
electrical barrier 30 presents a wider barrier than that of the electrical barrier 10 of the first
embodiment. Accordingly, a larger electrified distance is required to be crossed by any animal
attempting to penetrate into the protected area 110, increasing the effectiveness of the
electrical barrier 30.
[102]   The electrical barrier 30 of the second embodiment may be flexibly configured to vary
the number of shocks experienced by an animal attempting to cross the perimeter strip 300,
as well as the magnitudes of the shocks applied across the animal.
[103]   With the neutral terminal 124 of the power source 120 connected to Earth, and the
secondary conductors 320 connected thereto accordingly earthed (as with the second aspect
of the second embodiment), the electrical barrier 30 operates in a similar manner to the
electrical barrier 10 of the first embodiment. In this configuration, the active conductor 310
causes up to two shocks to an animal crossing over the perimeter strip 300.
[104]   A first shock is experienced by the animal when the animal first steps on the perimeter
strip 300 and a current is passed from the front of the animal that is in contact with the active
conductor 310 through to the rear of the animal that is in contact with one of the earthed
secondary conductor 320. A second shock is experienced if the animal attempts to push
through the electrical barrier 10 and a current is passed from the rear of the animal that is now
in contact with the active conductor 310 through to the front of the animal that is now in contact
with another one of the earthed secondary conductors 320.

                                                   11
[105]    Alternatively, with the neutral terminal of the power source 120 providing the secondary
conductors 320 with a potential difference relative to Earth (as with the first aspect of the
second embodiment), the electrical barrier 30 provides up to eight shocks at three different
magnitudes to an animal attempting to cross the perimeter strip 300.
[106]    A first shock is experienced by the animal when the animal has a part of its body in
contact with the outer secondary conductor 320b and another part of its body in contact with
Earth. The animal is likely to be in this position when it first attempts to cross the perimeter
strip 300 and takes a first step into the electrified threshold defined by the electrical barrier 30.
The magnitude of the first shock is dependent on the potential difference provided to the
secondary conductors 320 related to Earth.
[107]    A second shock may be experienced by the animal when the animal moves further
forward through the electrified threshold and is in the process of stepping off the outer
secondary conductor 320b into the space between the outer secondary conductor 320b and
the active conductor 310. The position of the animal relative to the conductors of the perimeter
strip 300 is similar to that when the animal experienced the first shock, namely a part of the
animal's body is in contact with the outer secondary conductor 320b and another part of the
animal's body is in contact with Earth. The magnitude of the second shock is the same as that
of the first shock.
[108]    A third shock may be experienced by the animal when the animal moves further
forward through the electrified threshold and is in the process of stepping off the outer
secondary conductor 320b onto the active conductor 310. The position of the animal in this
instance is such that a part of the animal's body is in contact with the active conductor 310
while another part of the animal's body is in contact with the outer secondary conductor 320b.
The magnitude of the third shock is dependent on the potential difference between the active
conductor 310 and the secondary conductor 320b.
[109]    A fourth shock may be experienced by the animal when the animal moves further
forward through the electrified threshold and is in the process of stepping off the space
between the outer secondary conductor 320b and the active conductor 310 onto the active
conductor 310. The position of the animal in this instance is such that a part of the animal's
body is in contact with Earth, namely the space between the outer secondary conductor 320b
and the active conductor 310, while another part of the animal's body is in contact with the
active conductor 310. The magnitude of the third shock is dependent on the potential
difference between the active conductor 310 and Earth.
[110]    A fifth shock may be experienced by the animal when the animal moves still further
forward through the electrified threshold and is in the process of stepping off the active

                                                12
conductor 310 into the space between the active conductor 310 and the inner secondary
conductor 320a. The position of the animal in this instance is such that a part of the animal's
body is in contact with the active conductor 310 while another part of the animal's body is in
contact with Earth. The magnitude of the fifth shock is dependent on the potential difference
between the active conductor 310 and Earth.
[111]    A sixth shock may be experienced by the animal when the animal moves still further
forward through the electrified threshold and is in the process of stepping off the active
conductor 310 onto the inner secondary conductor 320a. The position of the animal in this
instance is such that a part of the animal's body is in contact with the active conductor 310
while another part of the animal's body is in contact with the inner secondary conductor 320a.
The magnitude of the third shock is dependent on the potential difference between the active
conductor 310 and the inner secondary conductor 320a.
[112]    A seventh and an eighth shock that may be experienced by the animal is similar to the
first and second shocks, and occurs when the animal attempts to traverse the inner secondary
conductor 320a. The seventh shock occurs when part of the animal's body is in the space
between the active conductor 310 and the inner secondary conductor 320a and another part
of the animal's body is on the inner secondary conductor 320a. The eighth shock occurs when
part of the animal's body is on the inner secondary conductor 320a and another part of the
animal's body is in the protected area. The magnitude of the seventh and eighth chocks is the
same as that for the first and second shocks.
[113]    The magnitude of the shocks experienced by the animal when the animal forms a
bridge between one of the secondary conductors 320 and the active conductor 310 can be
configured to be larger or smaller than that experienced when the animal bridges one of the
secondary conductors 320 and Earth by varying the potentials between the active and neutral
terminals 122 and 124 of the power source 120. In this manner, different electrification effects
can be achieved to better suit particular animals.
[114]    For example, a large potential difference between the active and neutral terminals 122
and 124, and hence the active conductor 310 and secondary conductors 320, may be
preferable for animals who hold the bulk of their bodies above the ground such that a large
and painful shock is felt by the animal when it steps on both the active conductor 310 and the
secondary conductor 320. On the other hand, a small potential different between the active
and neutral terminals 122 and 124, and hence the active conductor 310 and secondary
conductors 320, may be preferable for animals who tend to slide or slither along the ground,
such that an uncomfortable buzzing sensation is experienced by the animal when it attempts
to cross the electrified threshold.

                                                  13
[115]    Returning to Fig. 4, a construction of the perimeter barrier 30 is described which is
substantially similar to that of the perimeter barrier 10. The electrical barrier 30 comprises the
active conductor 310 disposed on top of the support surface 220, with an electrically insulating
material 230 interposed between the active conductor 310 and the support surface 220.
Preferably, the secondary conductors 320 are also disposed on top of the support surface 220
with the electrical insulating material 230 interposed therebetween. In this manner, the
electrical barrier 30 may be used in accordance with both the first and second aspects of the
second embodiment by changing the connection of the neutral terminal of the power source
120. However, if the electrical barrier 30 is to be exclusively used in accordance with the
second aspect of the second embodiment, the secondary conductors 320 may be disposed
directly on the support surface 220 and in electrical contact therewith.
[116]    The electrical insulating material 230 may be a solid material such as wood, rubber,
ceramic, plastic, or may be an initially liquid or gel-like material such as silicone paste or putty.
The active conductor 310 and the secondary conductors 320 are a highly conductive material
such as copper, iron, or steel and may be disposed on the support surface 220 in the form of
an extruded wire or a flat strip. In one application, the conductors 310, 320 are constructed
from 316 grade stainless steel. The conductors 310, 320 and the electrically insulating material
230 may also be integrated as a single material, such as a flexible printed circuit board or film.
Alternatively, the support surface 220 can include an electrically conductive material such as
a metal plate.
[117]    The electrical barrier 10, 30 is constructed to withstand the movement of vehicles over
the perimeter strip 100, 300, including heavy duty industrial vehicles such as forklifts.
[118]    The power source 120 used by the electrical boundaries 10, 30 determines the
potential to the applied to the active conductors 210, 310 and the secondary conductors 320.
Preferably, the power source 120 is connected to a mains power source such as a wall socket,
or generator, or alternatively to a vehicle. The power source 120 has an internal resistance
and transformer suitable to transform an input thereto into an output suitable for applying a
discomforting shock to animals crossing the perimeter strip 100, 300. Preferably, the internal
resistance and/or transformer is adjustable so as to allow the output to be adjusted by a user
for specific applications. The power source 120 can be an energizer used for electric fencing.
The energizer can be mains, battery or solar powered.
[119]    A spacing between the active conductor 310 and the secondary conductors 320 ranges
from around 0.4 cm to around 30cm. The perimeter strip 100, 300 may be constructed with
different conductor spacings to suit different applications and be better suited to repel animals
of different sizes and methods of movement. Spacings between conductors in the same

                                                  14
perimeter strip 300 may vary, for example narrowing or widening the closer they are to the
protected area 110, to achieve different effects.
[120]    A width of the active conductor 210, 310 and the secondary conductors 320 ranges
from around 0.5cm to around 15cm. The perimeter strip 100, 300 may be constructed with
different conductor widths to suit different applications and be better suited to repel animals of
different sizes and methods of movement. Conductor widths in the same perimeter strip 300
may vary, for example narrowing or widening the closer they are to the protected area 110 to
achieve different effects.
[121]    The perimeter strip 100, 300 may be constructed as a loop, or as a straight or curved
strip. The perimeter strip 100, 300 may also be constructed to be modular such that one end
of the strip terminates in plugs and an opposite end of the strip terminates in ports. A modularly
constructed perimeter strip 100, 300 allows the perimeter strip 100, 300 to have variable
lengths, and shapes, and allows the electrical barrier 10, 30 to be upgraded, resized, and
reconfigured as required. Connecting strips of varying angles, shapes, and conductor
spacings, and conductor widths may also be provided to allow the electrical barrier 10, 30 to
have different characteristics at different locations.
[122]    Referring to Fig. 5, an example electrical barrier 30 set to protect an area is illustrated.
The electrical barrier 30 as illustrated is connected to a power source 120, which in this case
is in turn powered by a vehicle. The electrical barrier 30 illustrated in Fig. 5 has been set up
as a loop, with the protected area 110 contained within the loop.             The conductor sub
assemblies in this embodiment are supported by a movable support surface 220.
[123]    The electrical barrier according to the present invention uses one or more conductors
arranged in such a way as to act as a border for the purpose of preventing access to the
protected area by animals such as insects, marsupials, mammals, reptiles and general vermin
and pests.
[124]    In its simplest form, a protected area is defined by a single conductor arranged to form
a surface-mounted closed perimeter around the protected area. In its simplest form, the
conductor, which is electrically isolated from direct contact with the ground, is connected to
the output terminal of the power source, the function of which is to generate pulses of high
voltage electricity between ground and its output terminal. The neutral terminal of the power
source is connected to ground via one or more conductive metal components set into or
attached to the natural ground.
[125]    When the circuits formed by components connected to the output and ground terminals
of the power source are bridged as the result of simultaneous contact being established
between the two by an animal, a discharge of electricity occurs between the circuits, through

                                                 15
the body of the pest, resulting in one or a series of electric shocks acting as a deterrent to the
pests continued contact with the circuits.
[126]    Increased levels of protection are afforded by arranging a series of parallel, alternative
polarity conductors around the perimeter of the protected area, resulting in electric shocks
being delivered at each point where the alternative polarity circuits are bridged, delivering
additional deterrents against further attempts at intrusion into the protected area.
[127]   The electrical barrier of the present invention can be used as an adjunct to an existing
physical barrier (e.g. to protect physical entry/egress points of an otherwise sealed room) or
as a stand-alone installation. The protected area is physically defined by system, which
provides positive humane, non-lethal protection against ingress of vermin, including small
marsupials (e.g. rats, mice), cane toads, lizards, snakes, slugs and snails.
[128]   The electrical barrier of the present invention removes the need for ultrasonic devices,
poisons or traps and consequently presents no risk to health as the result of residual chemical
deposits, cross contamination or decaying carcasses.
[129]   The electrical barrier of the present invention may be powered from single phase mains
power, solar panels, or 12 volt sources (e.g. vessels, aircraft, or vehicles). The barrier may
be applied to any horizontal, inclined, vertical or inverted surface.
[130]   Advantages achieved by the electrical barrier of the present invention over
conventional means include long life, low capital outlay and minimal maintenance cost. The
present invention is adaptable for either professional or Do-it-yourself installation. The present
invention may also be vehicle-mounted to afford protection against vermin attack. The
electrical barrier may be modularly constructed so as to be easily expanded or reconfigured
to adapt to customer requirements.
[131]   The electrical barrier of the present invention does not restrict access by vehicles,
pedestrians or pets, and components thereof are adaptable to provide additional benefits such
as safety line marking for protected vehicle parking areas.
[132]   Components of the electrical barrier are predominantly mounted on the ground and
conductors with different electrical potential are electrically isolated from each other. A high
voltage electric shock is delivered each time two conductors with different electrical potential
are bridged, increasing the number of conductors results in repeated delivery of electric
shocks, as each electrically isolated "pair" of conductors are bridged by animals.
[133]    For a single conductor mounted on (but electrically isolated from) an uninsulated
concrete slab, the reinforcing of which is electrically connected to the ground terminal of a high
voltage power source whilst the single conductor is connected to an active terminal of the

                                                 16
power source, animals attempting to cross the conductor are potentially subjected to electrical
shocks as their bodies created an electrical bridge between the slab and the conductor. In
practice, two shocks are delivered as the animal crosses the conductor - the first on the
approach and second on the departure side. If a second conductor is mounted parallel to the
first, an animal would receive 4 shocks - one on both the approach and departure side of each
conductor - doubling the deterrent effect. Increasing the number of conductors continues to
increase the deterrent effect in a like manner.
[134]     Figure 6 shows another embodiment of an electrical barrier 50. Similar to the above,
the electrical barrier 50 uses a high voltage, low energy electrical discharge between surface
mounted conductors to deter attacks by rats, mice, lizards, snakes, slugs, snails etc.
[135]    The electrical barrier 50 comprises a conductive metal track 52 having lateral ridges
54 which define a channel 56 therebetween, The track 52 is mechanically anchored to the
ground/substrate 220 via suitable means such as screws 58. Laid along the surface of the
channel 56 is an insulation layer 60. Laid along a central longitudinal portion of the insulation
layer 60 is a conductive strip 70. The conductive strip 70 is attached to the active terminal
122 of the power source 120 and the conductive track 52 is connected to the neutral terminal
124 of the power source 120.
[136]    The substrate 220 can be concrete, wood, steel, masonry, ground or any other support
material. The insulation layer 60 can be made from a solidifying liquid, rigid or flexible non
conductive material such as 3M@ Diamond Grade reflective tape or epoxy coating.               The
conductive strip 70 can be stainless steel tape mounted to the insulation layer 60 using an
adhesive.
[137]    The track 52 in the embodiment is made from 316 grade stainless steel. The track
would be used for areas requiring protection, which are subject to exposure to weather,
infrequent chemical spills and light vehicular traffic (e.g. hand carts, cars etc.). The track 52
in the embodiment is pressed from 0.9 to 1.5 mm thick material.
[138]    As shown, the polarity of the stainless steel track section 52 is grounded and the centre
conductor 70 is connected to the output terminal 122 of the energizer 120, providing the ability
to deliver a high voltage shock to vermin on both the approach and departure side of the
central conductive element. The example shows only one possible configuration of the system
50 as both the polarity and number of conductors used will be determined by the degree of
protection required.
[139]     In another embodiment, if the same system 50 were to be mounted on an uncoated
concrete slab 220, the stainless steel track section 52 would be electrically isolated from the
slab 220 and connected to the output terminal 122 of the energizer 120.              If the central

                                                   17
conductive element was then connected in common with the slab 220 directly to ground, the
system would be capable of delivering a 4 tier shock - initially as vermin bridged the
connection between the slab 220 and track section 52, delivery of second and third shocks as
connections between the track section 52 and grounded central element 60 occurred, and the
fourth as the connection between the track 52 and slab 220 was bridged on the departure
side. The number of tracks and additional elements installed can be tailored to deliver any
number of shocks as required in order to deter even the most persistent attacks.
[140]   Where the system is not subjected to exposure to traffic, such as internal walls, ceilings
and non-trafficable floors, it is anticipated that the adhesive stainless steel tape conductors 70
will be applied directly in the case of smooth, insulated substrates 220, or over an epoxy or
insulative tape prepared surface 60.
[141]    In cases subjected to heavy vehicular traffic, such as driveways, roller door openings
on commercial premises etc., 316 grade stainless steel bars can be set into epoxy-filled saw
cuts made across the width of the access point. The tops of the bars will be set on the same
plane as the surface of the access point and in each instance, regardless of the type or
combination of conductive elements utilized to complete the installation, will be connected to
an energizer in such a way that a complete perimeter is formed around the area to be
protected. In the case of an area which is otherwise completely sealed, a requirement would
only exist for an installation to effectively cover any openings or potential access points. The
ridges 54 of the track 52 can also assist in urging wheels away from the contacting the channel
56.
[142]   The technology can also later be applied to afford both temporary and permanent
protection for vehicles, machinery etc. and this can be easily accomplished either by way of
a temporarily utilized mat or conductors mounted around vehicle access points. Either a
vehicle mounted energizer or conventional ac/dc, mains, battery or solar powered energizer
would also provide a suitable power source. Regardless of the system of conductors installed,
electrical continuity will be assured - in the case of the stainless steel track system shown,
connectors will be installed between adjacent tracks and CD welds will be utilized to ensure
continuity of stainless steel tape conductive elements.
[143]   Whilst preferred embodiments of the present invention have been described, it will be
apparent to skilled persons that modifications can be made to the embodiments described.
[144]    For example the electrical barrier can comprise a rigid or semi-rigid conductive bar
raised from the ground by spaced insulators. The bar would then be energised in use.
[145]    In the case of trafficable industrial driveways conductors, the electrical barrier can be
up to 75mm wide and 100mm deep (for example, an epoxy mounted stainless steel bar, set

                                                 18
into concrete). Expanding the dimensional limitations provides more scope for the barrier to
be adapted for other uses (for example, as a replacement for stock grids).
[146]    As noted above, the conductive member can also be disposed in a recess at which it
is flush, slightly below or slightly above the ground surface.
[147]    The embodiments above provide conductors laminated or printed onto a non
conductive substrate (such as adhesive backed conductive material being applied to a painted
or epoxy coated non-conductive substrate, or conductive material printed on a non-conductive
film or tape).
[148]    Figures 7 and 8 show a track 80 for an electrical barrier according to another
embodiment. The track 80 comprises an elongated extruded aluminium body.
[149]    In cross-section, the track 80 comprises a flat base 82 and an upper wall 84 which
arches between lateral edges 83 of the base 82. The track 80 comprises two spaced indexing
flutes 86 formed therein extending from the base wall 82. The upper wall 84 comprises three
spaced rebates (recesses) 88, separated by ridges 90. The rebates 88 comprise a central
rebate at a top portion of the arched upper wall and the other two rebates 88 on either side of
the central rebate.
[150]    In use, one, two, or three spaced conductor sub-assemblies, such as the sub
assemblies 304, 306a and 306b of Figure 4 are laid along the respective rebates 88.
Alternatively, the track 80 can be formed as non-conducting and one or more active
conductors can be mounted directly to the rebates 88. The track 80 thus forms the support
surface. Having an arched upper wall positions the active conductors at different levels from
the ground which increases the effectiveness of the barrier.
[151]    The track 80 enhances the electrical barrier system's self-cleaning ability and
ergonomics. The track 80 further includes the ability to maintain track end alignment due to
the profile design incorporating the twin indexing flutes 86 in its design. Alignment pins 95
can be inserted in the flutes 86 for joining and aligning adjacent tracks 80 end-to-end.
[152]    The track 80 can also be made from other suitable material such as other extruded
metal or plastics material.

                                                  19
Claims
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
    1. An electrical barrier comprising:
       An elongated support track comprising a base and an upper wall which is arched
        between lateral edges of the base, wherein the upper wall comprises at plurality of
       spaced parallel recesses extending along its length,
       a first active conductor for conducting an electrical potential disposed along one of the
        recesses,
       a secondary conductor for conducting an electrical potential disposed along another of
       the recesses, the second conductor spaced from the first active conductor, and
       a power source for providing a potential difference between the first active conductor
       and the secondary conductor.
   2. An electrical barrier as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a third active conductor
       for conducting an electrical potential disposed along one of the recesses, wherein the
       second conductor is disposed between the first and third active conductors, and
       wherein the power source supplies a potential difference between the third active
       conductor and the secondary conductor.
   3. An electrical barrier as claimed in claim 1 wherein the support track is made from non
       conducting material.
   4. An electrical barrier as claimed in claim 2 wherein the support track is made from
       conducting material, and wherein the first, second and third conductors are electrically
        insulated from the support track.
   5. An electrical barrier as claimed in claim 1 wherein the base comprises at least one
        indexing flute, and the electrical barrier further comprises alignment pins to be received
        in the indexing flutes for connecting adjacent support tracks
   6. An electrical barrier as claimed in claim 1, wherein the support track comprises a
        perimeter barrier for bounding a protected area.
   7. An electrical barrier as claimed in claim 4, wherein the power source provides a first
        potential difference between the first active conductor and the support track.
   8. An electrical barrier as claimed in claim 7, wherein the power source provides a second
        potential difference between the secondary conductor and the support track.
   9. An electrical barrier as claimed in claim 8, wherein the first potential difference is
       greater than the second potential difference.

                                         20
10. An electrical barrier as claimed in claim 4, wherein the conductors have different
    widths.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
