                                             ABSTRACT
          A computer-implemented method for adjusting a dosage associated with treating or
managing a medical condition, including receiving, by a device and from at least one of a
sensor or a user device or a server device via a network, lifestyle information corresponding
to an individual with a medical condition, creating, by the device and based on receiving the
lifestyle information, a lifestyle timeline associated with the individual, the lifestyle timeline
including a plurality of items of lifestyle information, included in the lifestyle information, and
having the plurality of items of lifestyle information arranged in a chronological order,
generating, by the device and based on receiving the lifestyle timeline, a recommendation
or a prediction associated with a metric related to the medical condition, the recommendation
being generated based on one or more of the plurality of items of lifestyle information, or the
prediction being generated using a prediction model that uses one or more of the plurality of
items of lifestyle information as input, receiving, by the device and from another device via
the network, transaction information associated with a purchase of food by a user of the user
device, receiving, by the device via the network, location information associated with the
user, generating, by the device and based on the transaction information and the location
information, an updated recommendation regarding insulin dosage, and providing, by the
device and to an insulin device, via the network information associated with the updated
recommendation, and causing, by the device, the insulin device to adjust a dosage of insulin
to a recommended dosage identified by the information associated with the updated
recommendation.

                     1/5
                          m0        0                H(    )C
           0)                 (D     -                L
                                    0     .........     0
                                                        Cl)_
           0)-                 =l
                                  0           0
                                                cni
                                                             .
o4                   LoU-
                                        I               ci
                                                             0
   _0C                    00H
       CO.~C                                I
                                       a)    0~
                                                    -H
               0                          0)
                 L)0 C14
                         0)00
        M0                                   C

                                                 1
      MONITORING AND TREATMENT DOSAGE PREDICTION SYSTEM
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]      This application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application
Number <removed-apn> filed 19 September 2016, the content of which is also incorporated by
reference herein.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      An individual with a treatable and/or a manageable medical condition, such as
diabetes, may manage the medical condition by periodically administering treatment (e.g.,
the consumption of food or the administration of medication such as insulin or glucagon).
The type and dosage of medication may be based on monitoring the individual's health
metrics (e.g., blood glucose levels) and/or other information that may affect the type and
dosage of medication to be administered for treating the medical condition. For example,
diabetic individuals may experience hypoglycemia (e.g., a condition in which blood glucose
levels are lower than a target or optimal level) or hyperglycemia (e.g., a condition in which
blood glucose levels are higher than a target or optimal level). Hypoglycemia may be treated
by the consumption of glucose via supplements or food. In extreme cases, hypoglycemia
may also be treated via medication, such as glucagon injections. Hyperglycemia may be
treated by insulin injections. Also, diabetic individuals may treat or manage diabetes using
various dosages and types of insulin (e.g., rapid-acting insulin, slow-acting insulin, etc.).
Diabetic individuals may utilize insulin pumps that may continuously provide insulin at a
particular rate, or may provide a burst of insulin when needed (e.g., after the consumption of
food).

                                                 2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0003]       In one aspect, the present invention provides a computer-implemented method
for adjusting a dosage associated with treating or managing a medical condition, including
receiving, by a device and from at least one of a sensor or a user device or a server device
via a network, lifestyle information corresponding to an individual with a medical condition,
creating, by the device and based receiving on the lifestyle information, a lifestyle timeline
associated with the individual, the lifestyle timeline including a plurality of items of lifestyle
information, included in the lifestyle information, and having the plurality of items of lifestyle
information arranged in a chronological order, generating, by the device and based on
receiving the lifestyle timeline, a recommendation or a prediction associated with a metric
related to the medical condition, the recommendation being generated based on one or more
of the plurality of items of lifestyle information, or the prediction being generated using a
prediction model that uses one or more of the plurality of items of lifestyle information as
input, receiving, by the device and from another device via the network, transaction
information associated with a purchase of food by a user of the user device, receiving, by
the device via the network, location information associated with the user, generating, by the
device and based on the transaction information and the location information, an updated
recommendation regarding insulin dosage, and providing, by the device and to an insulin
device, the network information associated with the updated recommendation, and causing,
by the device, the insulin device to adjust a dosage of insulin to a recommended dosage
identified by the information associated with the updated recommendation.
[0004]       In another aspect, the present invention provides a device for identifying a dosage
associated with treating or managing a medical problem, including one or more processors
that receive, from at least one of a sensor or a user device or a server device via a network,
lifestyle information corresponding to an individual with a medical problem, create, based on
receiving the lifestyle information, a lifestyle timeline associated with the individual, the
lifestyle timeline including a plurality of items of lifestyle information included in the lifestyle
information, and having the plurality of items of lifestyle information arranged in a
chronological order, generate, based on receiving the lifestyle timeline, a recommendation
or a prediction associated with a health metric related to the medical problem, the

                                                  3
recommendation including a recommended dosage of a treatment associated with the health
metric and being generated based on one or more of the plurality of items of lifestyle
information, or the prediction including a predicted value of the health metric at a future time
and being generated by a prediction model that uses one or more items of the plurality of
lifestyle information as input, receive, from another device via the network, transaction
information associated with a purchase of food by a user of the user device, receive, via the
network, location information associated with the user, generate, based on the transaction
information and the location information, an updated recommendation regarding insulin
dosage, provide, to an insulin device via the network information associated with the updated
recommendation, and cause the insulin device to adjust a dosage of insulin to a
recommended insulin dosage identified by the information associated with the updated
recommendation.
[0005]       In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a non-transitory computer
readable medium storing instructions for identifying a dosage associated with treating or
managing a medical problem, the instructions including one or more instructions that, when
executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to receive, from at
least one of a sensor or a user device or a server device via a network, lifestyle information
corresponding to an individual with a medical problem, create, based on receiving the
lifestyle information, a lifestyle timeline associated with the individual, the lifestyle timeline
including a plurality of items of lifestyle information included in the lifestyle information, and
having the plurality of items of lifestyle information arranged in a chronological order,
determine, based on receiving the lifestyle information, a current value of a metric associated
with the medical problem, generate, based on receiving the lifestyle timeline and the current
value of the metric, a recommendation or a prediction associated with the metric, the
recommendation being generated based on a first set of the plurality of items of lifestyle
information, or the prediction being generated using a predictive model that uses a second
set of the plurality of items of lifestyle information as input, and receive, from another device
via the network, transaction information associated with a purchase of food by a user of the
user device, receive, via the network, location information associated with the user, generate,

                                            4
based    on the   transaction information  and the   location    information,  an  updated
recommendation regarding an insulin dosage, provide, to an insulin device via the network,
information associated with the updated recommendation, and cause the insulin device to
adjust a dosage of insulin to a recommended dosage identified by the information associated
with the updated recommendation.

                                                5
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0006]       Figs. 1A and 1B are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation
described herein;
[0007]       Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment in which systems and/or methods,
described herein, may be implemented;
[0008]       Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of one or more devices of Fig. 2; and
[0009]       Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process for generating a recommendation
and/or a prediction, associated with a medical problem relating to an individual, based on
lifestyle information associated with the individual.

                                                  6
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0010]      The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the
accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify
the same or similar elements.
[0011]      An individual with a medical problem (e.g., a disease, a disorder, a condition, etc.)
may need to monitor and/or manage the medical problem by administering (e.g., ingesting,
injecting, applying, etc.) a dosage of a treatment (e.g., medication).        For example, an
individual afflicted with diabetes (e.g., type 1 or type 2 diabetes) may monitor and/or manage
the condition by measuring blood glucose levels one or more times a day. Based on the
blood glucose levels and/or a predicted trend of blood glucose levels, the individual may
administer certain treatment. For example, in the case of hyperglycemia the individual may
administer insulin.     In the case of hypoglycemia, the individual my consume glucose or
administer other medication (e.g., glucagon).
[0012]      Monitoring and/or managing such a medical problem may be difficult since
dosages of the treatment may vary widely (e.g., from hour to hour, from day to day, etc.)
based on a multitude of factors associated with the individual. In the case of diabetes, for
example, a trend in blood glucose levels of the diabetic individual may vary widely based on
the individual's diet, the individual's activity level, previous dosages of insulin, biological
factors associated with the individual, environmental conditions associated with the
individual, or the like. Here, dosages of insulin or glucose consumption may be difficult to
forecast and/or predict due to a trend in glucose levels being affected by the multitude of
factors. As such, the monitoring and/or managing of the medical problem may require
constant and close attention by the individual (or those charged with the individual's care).
For example, insufficient insulin (e.g., for treating hyperglycemia) may cause the individual
to remain hyperglycemic, and excess insulin may cause the individual to become
hypoglycemic. Similarly, insufficient glucose consumption (e.g., for treating hypoglycemia)
may cause the individual to remain hypoglycemic, whereas excess glucose consumption
may cause the individual to become hyperglycemic.

                                                  7
[0013]       Implementations     described herein      may provide a computer-implemented
monitoring and treatment dosage prediction system that is capable of determining lifestyle
information associated with an individual. Further, implementations described herein may
analyze the lifestyle information (e.g., to identify patterns, correlations, trends, etc.)
associated with the individual, and provide the individual with a recommended dosage of the
treatment (e.g., an immediate dosage of the treatment, a future dosage of the treatment,
etc.).   Additionally, or alternatively, implementations described herein may predict other
conditions associated with the medical problem (e.g., a predicted change or trend in a blood
glucose level). Accordingly, the recommended dosage of the treatment for an individual may
take into consideration the individual's lifestyle information in order for the individual to better
manage a medical problem (e.g., diabetes).
[0014]       Further, the implementations described here allow processing resources, memory
resources, and/or battery life of one or more user devices, associated with the individual, to
be conserved (e.g., since the one or more user devices are not required to store the lifestyle
information, analyze the lifestyle information, create the lifestyle timeline, and/or generate
the recommendation and/or prediction).
[0015]       Figs. 1A and 1B are diagrams of an overview of an example implementation 100
described herein. As shown by reference numeral 105 in Fig.1A, an analytics system may
receive a variety of lifestyle information associated with an individual (e.g., information
specific to the individual, general information that may add context to another item of lifestyle
information associated with the individual) that suffers from a medical problem (e.g.,
diabetes).    For example, the analytics system may receive the lifestyle information from
various sources, such as a user device (e.g., user device 1 which may include a smart watch,
a smart phone, a fitness band, a continuous glucose monitor (CGM), and/or the like).
Additionally, or alternatively, the analytics system may receive the lifestyle information from
an application server that hosts an application executed on user device 2 associated with
the individual. Here, the lifestyle information, provided by the application server, may be
specific to the individual. Additionally, or alternatively, the analytics system may receive the
lifestyle information from a weather data server that has access to general weather data.
Here, the lifestyle information, provided by the weather data server, may be general

                                                8
information and/or contextual information. As described herein, the lifestyle information may
include information that may be used to predict or identify a trend in the individual's vital signs
and/or other health metrics (e.g., blood glucose levels).        In some implementations, the
lifestyle information may include items, such as financial transactions, activities, meals,
events, stress levels, heart rate, sleep patterns, and/or other information regarding the
individual that may be used to forecast or identify a trend in the individual's health metrics
(e.g., blood glucose levels).
[0016]       In other words, in some implementations, the lifestyle information may be
associated with the individual. Additionally, or alternatively, the lifestyle information may
include general information and/or contextual information that may be used to add context
to one or more other items of lifestyle information. For example, the lifestyle information may
include weather data, geo-spatial information system data, and/or another type general
information and/or contextual information that is not specific to the individual.
[0017]       The analytics system may generate a recommendation and/or a prediction,
associated with the medical problem (e.g., a predicted trend of blood glucose levels, a
predicted value associated with a health metric) based on the lifestyle information.            For
example, as shown by reference numeral 110, the analytics system may create a timeline,
associated with the individual, based on the lifestyle information. The timeline may identify
the lifestyle items during a time period from a past time (Tp) to a current time (Tc) and until
a first future time (TF1).
[0018]       As shown by reference number 115, the analytics system may use predictive
factors to generate a recommendation associated with monitoring and/or managing the
medical problem (e.g., an amount of insulin or glucagon to inject, an amount of glucose to
consume), and another future time at which to administer the injection or consume the
glucose (e.g., identified as time F2 (TF2) in Fig. 1A).      Additionally, or alternatively, the
analytics system may determine a prediction associated with the medical problem.                For
example, the analytics system may predict or forecast a metric (e.g., blood glucose level) of
the individual (e.g., as shown by a forecast line in Fig. 1A).    In some implementations, the
analytics system may identify a target or threshold value for the metric. As described herein,

                                                 9
the threshold value may be used to determine a recommendation for treating or managing
the individual's medical condition (e.g., a recommended dosage of insulin or glucose
consumption). In some implementations, the glucose levels prior to the current time Tc may
be based on actual glucose levels (e.g., as measured by a CGM), and the glucose levels
after the current time Tc may be forecasted levels that are determined based on the lifestyle
timeline.
[0019]       As shown by reference numeral 120 in Fig. 1B, the analytics system may provide
the individual's recommendation/prediction to a user device (e.g., user device 2). As shown
by reference number 125, the user device may display the recommendation/prediction in the
form of a graph.      For example, the user device may display the lifestyle timeline, the
forecasted health metrics (e.g., glucose levels), and a recommendation for treatment of the
medical condition (e.g., diabetes) at a particular time. In the example of Fig. 1B, the user
device may display a recommended dosage of 2 units at approximately time TF2.
[0020]       In some implementations, the forecasted health metrics may be based on a
determination that the individual failed to follow the recommended dosage. In the example
of Fig. 1B, neglecting to treat the medical problem in accordance with the recommendation
may cause the glucose levels to drop below a particular target or threshold (e.g., thereby
resulting in hypoglycemia). Here, the forecasted glucose level at time TF1 may identify a
forecasted glucose level at time TF1 if the recommended dosage is not administered at time
TF2.     Accordingly, the recommendation may include a recommended dosage for the
consumption of glucose at a particular time. In some implementations, the forecasted health
metrics may be based on a determination that the individual followed the recommended
dosage (i.e., was compliant with a treatment protocol), in which case the forecasted health
metrics is within an acceptable margin of error with respect the target or threshold.
[0021]       As described herein, lifestyle information for an individual with a medical problem
(e.g., diabetes) may be used to forecast a trend in the individual's health metrics (e.g.,
glucose levels). Further, recommended dosages for managing and treating the individual's
medical problem may be determined based on the determined trend and the individual's
lifestyle information. As a result, the individual may better manage and treat the medical

                                                10
condition since recommended          dosages take into consideration the user's lifestyle
information, including the user's future activities, planned meals, etc. which may affect the
user's health metrics.
[0022]      As indicated above, Figs. 1A and 1B are provided merely as an example. Other
examples are possible and may differ from what was described with regard to Figs. 1A and
1B.
[0023]      Fig. 2 is a diagram of an example environment 200 in which systems and/or
methods, described herein, may be implemented. As shown in Fig. 2, environment 200 may
include one or more user devices 205-1 through 205-M (M               1) (hereinafter referred to
collectively as "user devices 205," and individually as "user device 205"), one or more server
devices 210-1 through 210-N (N        1) (hereinafter referred to collectively as "server devices
210," and individually as "server device 210"), an analytics system 215 hosted within a cloud
computing environment 220, and a network 225.               Devices of environment 200 may
interconnect via wired connections, wireless connections, or a combination of wired and
wireless connections.
[0024]      User device 205 includes one or more devices capable receiving, storing, and/or
providing, to an individual, information associated with a prediction and/or a recommendation
associated with a dosage of a treatment for a medical problem. For example, user device
205 may include a communication and/or computing device, such as a mobile phone (e.g.,
a smart phone, a radiotelephone, etc.), a laptop computer, a tablet computer, a handheld
computer, a gaming device, a wearable communication device (e.g., a fitness band, a smart
wristwatch, a pair of smart eyeglasses, a sensor, a CGM, an insulin pump, etc.), or a similar
type of device. In some implementations, user device 205 may be capable of receiving,
collecting, generating, processing, and/or providing lifestyle information associated with the
individual.
[0025]      Server device 210 includes one or more devices capable of receiving, storing,
and/or providing lifestyle information associated with an individual. For example, server
device 210 may include a server or a group of servers. In some implementations, server
device 210 may host an application associated with the lifestyle information and/or may store

                                               11
the lifestyle information (e.g., such that server device 210 may provide the lifestyle
information to analytics system 215).
[0026]      Analytics system 215 includes one or more devices capable of determining
lifestyle information associated with an individual, analyzing the lifestyle information
associated with the individual, and/or providing the individual with a prediction and/or a
recommendation for a dosage of a treatment.         For example, analytics system 215 may
include a server or a collection of servers. In some implementations, analytics system 215
may be capable of storing, accessing, creating, training, updating, and/or modifying a
prediction model associated with determining the recommendation for the dosage of the
treatment.
[0027]      In some implementations, as shown, analytics system 215 may be hosted in cloud
computing environment 220.       Notably, while implementations described herein describe
analytics system 215 as being hosted in cloud computing environment 220, in some
implementations, analytics system 215 may not be cloud-based (i.e., may be implemented
outside of a cloud computing environment) or may be partially cloud-based.
[0028]      Cloud computing environment 220 includes an environment that hosts analytics
system 215. Cloud computing environment 220 may provide computation, software, data
access, storage, etc. services that do not require end-user (e.g., user device 205) knowledge
of a physical location and configuration of system(s) and/or device(s) that hosts analytics
system 215. As shown, cloud computing environment 220 may include a group of computing
resources 222 (referred to collectively as "computing resources 222" and individually as
"computing resource 222").
[0029]      Computing resource 222 may include one or more personal computers,
workstation     computers,   server  devices,   or another    type   of computation    and/or
communication device.       In some implementations, computing resource 222 may host
analytics system 215. The cloud resources may include compute instances executing in
computing resource 222, storage devices provided in computing resource 222, data transfer
devices provided by computing resource 222, etc. In some implementations, computing

                                               12
resource 222 may communicate with other computing resources 222 via wired connections,
wireless connections, or a combination of wired and wireless connections.
[0030]       As further shown in Fig. 2, computing resource 222 may include a group of cloud
resources, such as one or more applications ("APPs") 222-1, one or more virtual machines
("VMs") 222-2, virtualized storage ("VSs") 222-3, one or more hypervisors ("HYPs") 222-4,
or the like.
[0031]       Application 222-1 may include one or more software applications that may be
provided to or accessed by user device 205. Application 222-1 may eliminate a need to
install and execute the software applications on user device 205. For example, application
222-1 may include software associated with analytics system 215 and/or any other software
capable of being provided via cloud computing environment 220. In some implementations,
one application 222-1 may send/receive information to/from one or more other applications
222-1, via virtual machine 222-2.
[0032]       Virtual machine 222-2 may include a software implementation of a machine (e.g.,
a computer) that executes programs like a physical machine. Virtual machine 222-2 may be
either a system virtual machine or a process virtual machine, depending upon use and
degree of correspondence to any real machine by virtual machine 222-2. A system virtual
machine may provide a complete system platform that supports execution of a complete
operating system ("OS"). A process virtual machine may execute a single program, and may
support a single process. In some implementations, virtual machine 222-2 may execute on
behalf of a user (e.g., user device 205), and may manage infrastructure of cloud computing
environment 220, such as data management, synchronization, or long-duration data
transfers.
[0033]       Virtualized storage 222-3 may include one or more storage systems and/or one
or more devices that use virtualization techniques within the storage systems or devices of
computing resource 222. In some implementations, within the context of a storage system,
types of virtualizations may include block virtualization and file virtualization.         Block
virtualization may refer to abstraction (or separation) of logical storage from physical storage
so that the storage system may be accessed without regard to physical storage or

                                              13
heterogeneous structure. The separation may permit administrators of the storage system
flexibility in how the administrators manage storage for end users. File virtualization may
eliminate dependencies between data accessed at a file level and a location where files are
physically stored. This may enable optimization of storage use, server consolidation, and/or
performance of non-disruptive file migrations.
[0034]        Hypervisor 222-4 may provide hardware virtualization techniques that allow
multiple operating systems (e.g., "guest operating systems") to execute concurrently on a
host computer, such as computing resource 222. Hypervisor 222-4 may present a virtual
operating platform to the guest operating systems, and may manage the execution of the
guest operating systems. Multiple instances of a variety of operating systems may share
virtualized hardware resources. Network 225 includes one or more wired and/or wireless
networks.      For example, network 225 may include a cellular network (e.g., a long-term
evolution (LTE) network, a 3G network, a code division multiple access (CDMA) network,
etc.), a public land mobile network (PLMN), a local area network (LAN), a wide area network
(WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), a telephone network (e.g., the Public Switched
Telephone Network (PSTN)), a private network, an ad hoc network, an intranet, the Internet,
a fiber optic-based network, a cloud computing network, or the like, and/or a combination of
these or other types of networks.
[0035]        The number and arrangement of devices and networks shown in Fig. 2 are
provided as an example. In practice, there may be additional devices and/or networks, fewer
devices and/or networks, different devices and/or networks, or differently arranged devices
and/or networks than those shown in Fig. 2. Furthermore, two or more devices shown in
Fig. 2 may be implemented within a single device, or a single device shown in Fig. 2 may be
implemented as multiple, distributed devices. Additionally, or alternatively, a set of devices
(e.g., one or more devices) of environment 200 may perform one or more functions described
as being performed by another set of devices of environment 200.
[0036]        Fig. 3 is a diagram of example components of a device 300. Device 300 may
correspond to user device 205, server device 210, and/or analytics system 215. In some
implementations, user device 205, server device 210, and/or analytics system 215 may

                                               14
include one or more devices 300 and/or one or more components of device 300. As shown
in Fig. 3, device 300 may include a bus 310, a processor 320, a memory 330, a storage
component 340, an input component 350, an output component 360, and a communication
interface 370.
[0037]      Bus 310 includes a component that permits communication               among the
components of device 300.      Processor 320 is implemented in hardware, firmware, or a
combination of hardware and software. Processor 320 includes a processor (e.g., a central
processing unit (CPU), a graphics processing unit (GPU), and/or an accelerated processing
unit (APU)), a microprocessor, a microcontroller, and/or any processing component (e.g., a
field-programmable gate array (FPGA) and/or an application-specific integrated circuit
(ASIC)) that interprets and/or executes instructions. In some implementations, processor
320 includes one or more processors capable of being programmed to perform a function.
Memory 330 includes a random access memory (RAM), a read only memory (ROM), and/or
another type of dynamic or static storage device (e.g., a flash memory, a magnetic memory,
and/or an optical memory) that stores information and/or instructions for use by processor
320.
[0038]      Storage component 340 stores information and/or software related to the
operation and use of device 300. For example, storage component 340 may include a hard
disk (e.g., a magnetic disk, an optical disk, a magneto-optic disk, and/or a solid state disk),
a compact disc (CD), a digital versatile disc (DVD), a floppy disk, a cartridge, a magnetic
tape, and/or another type of non-transitory computer-readable medium, along with a
corresponding drive.
[0039]      Input component 350 includes a component that permits device 300 to receive
information, such as via user input (e.g., a touch screen display, a keyboard, a keypad, a
mouse, a button, a switch, and/or a microphone).         Additionally, or alternatively, input
component 350 may include a sensor for sensing information (e.g., a global positioning
system (GPS) component, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and/or an actuator).             Output
component 360 includes a component that provides output information from device 300 (e.g.,
a display, a speaker, and/or one or more light-emitting diodes (LEDs)).

                                                 15
[0040]      Communication interface 370 includes a transceiver-like component (e.g., a
transceiver and/or a separate receiver and transmitter) that enables device 300 to
communicate with other devices, such as via a wired connection, a wireless connection, or
a combination of wired and wireless connections. Communication interface 370 may permit
device 300 to receive information from another device and/or provide information to another
device. For example, communication interface 370 may include an Ethernet interface, an
optical interface, a coaxial interface, an infrared interface, a radio frequency (RF) interface,
a universal serial bus (USB) interface, a Wi-Fi interface, a cellular network interface, or the
like.
[0041]      Device 300 may perform one or more processes described herein. Device 300
may perform these processes in response to processor 320 executing software instructions
stored by a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such as memory 330 and/or storage
component 340. A computer-readable medium is defined herein as a non-transitory memory
device. A memory device includes memory space within a single physical storage device or
memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices.
[0042]      Software instructions may be read into memory 330 and/or storage component
340 from another computer-readable medium or from another device via communication
interface 370. When executed, software instructions stored in memory 330 and/or storage
component 340 may cause processor 320 to perform one or more processes described
herein.   Additionally, or alternatively, hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in
combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein.
Thus, implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of
hardware circuitry and software.
[0043]      The number and arrangement of components shown in Fig. 3 are provided as an
example. In practice, device 300 may include additional components, fewer components,
different components, or differently arranged components than those shown in Fig. 3.
Additionally, or alternatively, a set of components (e.g., one or more components) of device
300 may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another set of
components of device 300.

                                                 16
[0044]       Fig. 4 is a flow chart of an example process 400 for generating a recommendation
and/or a prediction, associated with a medical problem relating to an individual, based on
lifestyle information associated with the individual. In some implementations, one or more
process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by analytics system 215.                       In some
implementations, one or more process blocks of Fig. 4 may be performed by another device
or a group of devices separate from or including analytics system 215, such as user device
205 and/or server device 210.
[0045]       As shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include determining lifestyle information
associated with an individual (block 410). For example, analytics system 215 may receive
lifestyle information from user devices 205 and/or server devices 210.                   In some
implementations, the lifestyle information may include information, associated with an
individual with a medical problem, that may affect a dosage of a treatment associated with
the medical problem.        For example, the lifestyle information may include information that
may be used to predict or identify a trend in the individual's vital signs and/or other health
metrics (e.g., blood glucose levels). Since any of a multitude of factors may affect the
medical problem, the various types of lifestyle information (e.g., described below) may be
beneficial in that the various types of lifestyle information allow analytics platform 215 to
generate a more accurate and/or finely tuned recommendation and/or predication associated
with the individual.
[0046]       As an example, the lifestyle information may include event information associated
with the individual, such as a work schedule, a school schedule, a calendar of events,
information associated with a school newsletter, or the like.
[0047]       As another example, the lifestyle information may include sleep information
associated with the individual, such as a wake time, a start time of sleep, an amount of
movement during sleep, a breathing measurement during sleep, a heart rate during sleep,
or the like.
[0048]       As still another example, the lifestyle information may include activity information
associated with the individual, such as information that identifies a type of activity, a duration

                                                   17
of the activity, a heart rate during the activity, a blood pressure during the activity, information
associated with a period of time of low activity and/or inactivity, or the like.
[0049]      As yet another example, the lifestyle information may include diet information
associated with the individual, such as a type of food or drink consumed by the individual, a
quantity of the food or drink consumed by the individual, a time at which the food or drink is
consumed by the individual, nutrition information associated with the food or drink (e.g., a
quantity of carbohydrates, an amount of protein, an amount of fat, etc.), or the like.
[0050]      As an additional example, the lifestyle information may include biological
information associated with the individual, such as a weight, a height, an age, a gender, a
blood pressure, a resting heart rate, a body temperature, a body fat measurement, a blood
ketone measurement, a blood glucose measurement, a cholesterol measurement, or the
like.
[0051]      As yet another example, the lifestyle information may include emotional
information associated with the individual, such as information indicating whether the
individual is experiencing stress, relaxation, happiness, sadness, or the like (i.e., information
that identifies an emotional state of the individual at a given time). In some implementations,
the emotional information may be obtained based on user input via user device 205 (e.g.,
input indicating a mood of the individual, a stress level of the individual, etc.). Additionally,
or alternatively, the emotional information may be obtained in another manner, such as
based on a facial analysis of an image of the individual, determined based on vital signs of
the individual, or the like.
[0052]      As still another example, the lifestyle information may include medical information
associated with the individual, such as monitoring information (e.g., information that identifies
previous blood glucose levels), dosage information (e.g., information that identifies amounts
of previous insulin dosages), times at which previous dosages were administered, or the like.
[0053]      As another example, the lifestyle information may include location information
associated with the individual and/or a location associated with another item of lifestyle
information, such as information that identifies a geographic location (e.g., a global

                                                  18
positioning system (GPS) location), information indicating whether the individual is indoors
or outdoors, information indicating that the individual is at a particular place (e.g., a
restaurant, a gym, a park, a movie theater, etc.), information that identifies a location of an
event, or the like.
[0054]      As yet another example, the lifestyle information may include environmental
information associated with an environment in which the individual may be present, such as
a season (e.g., summer, winter, spring, fall), a phase of the moon, current weather
information, forecasted weather information,           historical weather information,       an air
temperature, an atmospheric pressure, air quality information, allergen information, a wind
speed, an altitude, a sunrise time, a sunset time, or the like.
[0055]      As an additional example, the lifestyle information may include transaction
information associated with the individual, such as an amount of a transaction (e.g.,
associated with a credit card, a debit card, etc.), information that identifies items associated
with the transaction (e.g., food, drink, movie tickets, park admissions, fitness classes, etc.),
information associated with a digital receipt (e.g., stored on a server associated with an
application, sent via email, etc.), or the like.
[0056]      In some implementations, the lifestyle information may be associated with the
individual, as described in the above examples. Additionally, or alternatively, the lifestyle
information may include general and/or contextual information that is not specific to the
individual, such as weather data, geo-spatial information system data, or the like. Here,
analytics system 215 may use to add context to one or more other items of lifestyle
information. For example, analytics system 215 may use general environmental information
(e.g., weather data indicating that it is raining at a particular location) in combination with
specific geo-location data (e.g., information that indicates that the individual is at the
particular location and information that identifies a speed of movement of the individual) and
specific activity information (e.g., indicating a low amount of activity by the individual) in order
to determine that the individual is traveling by automobile (e.g., rather than by bicycle or on
foot).

                                                   19
[0057]       In some implementations, the lifestyle information may include timing information
(e.g., a time at which food was consumed, a time that a class is to begin, an amount of time
that the individual is at a particular location, etc.). In some implementations, analytics system
215 may use the timing information during analysis of the lifestyle information, as described
below.
[0058]       The above types of lifestyle information are provided merely as examples. In
some implementations, analytics system 215 may receive additional, other, and/or different
types of lifestyle information associated with the individual.
[0059]       In some implementations, analytics system 215 may receive the lifestyle
information from one or more user devices 205. For example, analytics system 215 may
receive (e.g., automatically, based on a request, etc.) the lifestyle information from one or
more user devices 205 associated with the individual, such as a smart phone, a smart
wristwatch, a fitness band, a sensor, a medical device (e.g., an insulin pump, a CGM device,
etc.), an accelerometer, or the like. Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system 215 may
receive the lifestyle information based on user input (e.g., via one or more user devices)
associated with the lifestyle information (e.g., information that is manually entered by the
individual).
[0060]      Additionally, or alternatively,     analytics system 215 may receive the lifestyle
information from one or more server devices 210, such as one or more application servers
associated with applications of user device 205 (e.g., a social media application, a calendar
application, a gaming application, an email application, a banking application, a fitness
application, a diet tracking application, a camera application, a food planning application,
etc.), one or more server devices associated with storing data (e.g., historical weather
information, credit card transaction information, nutrition information, fitness information,
etc.), or the like.
[0061]       In some implementations, the lifestyle information may include information
identifying previous meals consumed by the individual. For example, analytics system 215
may provide, for display to the individual, a set of images associated with one or more
previous servings of a meal and/or portions of the items included in the meal, where each

                                                 20
image may include a size reference indicator (e.g., such that the individual may readily
identify a portion size of items included in the meal). Here, the individual may select an
image that represents the portion sizes of the current meal. Alternatively, the individual may
decide not to select an image (e.g., such that the predicted portion sizes are unchanged). In
some implementations, analytics system 215 may prompt the individual to capture an image
(e.g., via a user device), such that analytics system 215 may store the image for future use
and/or prediction.
[0062]       In some implementations, the lifestyle information may be historical (e.g.,
associated with a previous physical activity, a previous meal, an earlier event, etc.), current
lifestyle information (e.g., associated with an ongoing physical activity, a current heart rate,
a current weight, a current value associated with a health metric related to the medical
problem, etc.), and/or future lifestyle information (e.g., associated with a planned event, an
upcoming meal, etc.).
[0063]       In some implementations, analytics system 215 may store or have access to
predetermined information that may be used to augment and/or supplement the lifestyle
information.     For example, analytics system 215 may store or have access to nutrition
information associated with one or more types of food or drink (e.g., such that analytics
system 215 may calculate blood glucose based on the nutrition information rather than
relying on the individual to input the nutrition information).
[0064]       As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include generating, based on the
lifestyle information, a recommendation and/or a prediction associated with a medical
problem relating to the individual (block 420).       For example, analytics system 215 may
generate the recommendation and/or the prediction.             In some implementations, the
recommendation may include a recommendation associated with a dosage of treatment
associated with managing the medical problem (e.g., dosage of insulin, food, beverages,
supplements, and/or other medications to manage diabetes). In some implementations, the
recommendation may include a dosage, a time to administer a dosage, a predicted pre
dosage metric (e.g., a predicted pre-insulin blood glucose level), a predicted post-dosage
metric (e.g., a predicted post-insulin blood glucose level), a type of medicine (e.g., rapid-

                                                  21
acting insulin, short-acting insulin, long-acting insulin, 70/30 insulin, 50/50 insulin), a brand
of medicine, or the like.     In some implementations, the recommendation may include a
glucose dosage recommendation which may include a recommendation to consume certain
foods, beverages, supplements, etc. (e.g., in the case of hypoglycemia in which foods,
beverages, glucose supplements, and/or medications, such as glucagon, may be needed to
elevate the individual's blood glucose levels).
[0065]       In some implementations, the recommendation for a dosage of a treatment may
include information identifying an immediate dosage, a dosage at a future time, a dosage in
anticipation of a future physical activity identified by the lifestyle information, or the like,
and/or a prediction associated with the medical problem.          For example, in the case of a
diabetic individual, analytics system 215 may analyze the lifestyle information associated
with the individual, may determine, based on analyzing the lifestyle information, a
recommendation for an insulin dosage or glucose dosage in anticipation of an upcoming
activity. Analytics system 215 may also determine a predicted change in a blood glucose
level associated with the recommended insulin dosage or glucose dosage.                  In some
implementations, the recommendation may include a prediction, a forecast, an estimate, or
the like, associated with the medical problem (e.g., predicted blood glucose levels during a
future time or future time window) such that the individual is informed regarding managing
the medical problem at the future time or future time window.
[0066]       As described herein, analytics system 215 may generate the prediction by
converting (e.g., merging, combining, normalizing) the lifestyle information such that items
of the lifestyle information are in a format that can be used to create a lifestyle timeline
associated with the individual (i.e., analytics system 215 may create converted lifestyle
information based on merging, combining, and/or normalizing the lifestyle information). In
some implementations, the lifestyle timeline may include a series (e.g., multiple) of items of
lifestyle information (e.g., events, activities, meals, sleep) arranged in a chronological order.
For example, the lifestyle timeline may include historical items of lifestyle information, current
items of lifestyle information, and/or future items of lifestyle information (e.g., events,
activities, meals, sleep) arranged in a chronological order.        In other words, the lifestyle

                                                 22
timeline may include a combination of historical items of lifestyle information, current items
of lifestyle information, and/or future items of lifestyle information.
[0067]       In some implementations, analytics system 215 may determine one or more
predictive factors associated with the medical problem (e.g., a factor and/or amount by which
a metric, relating to the medical problem, may be affected by an item of lifestyle information).
For example, the predictive factor may be a factor and/or an amount by which ingestion of a
particular food item will affect a blood glucose level. As another example, the predictive
factor may include a factor and/or an amount by which a period of sleep will affect a blood
glucose level. As another example, the predictive factor may include a factor and/or an
amount by which a period of certain activity (e.g., exercise, walking, running, and/or another
activity) will affect a blood glucose level. As another example, the predictive factor may
include a factor and/or an amount by which medication will affect a blood glucose level.
[0068]       In some implementations, the predictive factor may vary from individual to
individual. For example, the predictive factor may be determined based on previous lifestyle
information (e.g., the previous effect of certain activity on the individual's blood glucose level).
Additionally, or alternatively, the predictive factor may be based on an item of lifestyle
information (e.g., a known effect of a particular food item or medication on the individual's
blood glucose level). Additionally, or alternatively, the predictive factor may be based on
both information associated with the individual (e.g., weight) and the item of lifestyle
information (e.g., a known effect of ingesting an apple may be modified based on the weight).
In some implementations, different predictive factors may be determined for different items
of lifestyle information (e.g., one predictive factor may be determined for a particular food
item and another predictive factor may be determined for a particular activity).
[0069]       Analytics system 215 may generate the prediction based on the predictive factors
and the timeline. In other words, analytics system 215 may determine an effect of the lifestyle
information on the medical problem using the predictive factors. Additionally, or alternatively,
analytics system 215 may analyze the lifestyle information to identify patterns, correlations,
trends, or the like, associated with the individual, and may generate the recommendation
and/or the prediction based on the identified patterns, correlations, trends, or the like. As an

                                                 23
example, analytics system 215 may identify a trend in the individual's glucose levels based
on the individual's consumption of certain foods. For example, analytics system 215 may
identify the trend based on information identifying the previous effects of the foods on the
individual's blood glucose levels. Additionally, or alternatively, the trend may be based on
the predictive factor. As another example, analytics system 215 may identify a trend in the
individual's glucose levels based on the individual's activities (e.g., based on information
identifying the previous effects of the activities on the individual's blood glucose levels and/or
based on the predictive factor associated with the activities).
[0070]      Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system 215 may generate a state
associated with the individual.       The state associated with the individual may include
information such as sums, averages, minimums, or maximums of parameters associated
with managing or monitoring the medical problem, such as insulin, glucose, carbohydrates,
sleep, or the like, in the case of the diabetic individual. The state may also include other
information, such as changes in values associated with one or more items of lifestyle
information, ratios, moving averages, counts, or the like.          Additionally, or alternatively,
analytics system 215 may apply one or more other analytics techniques.
[0071]      In some implementations, analytics system 215 may use a nearest neighbor
analysis to generate the recommendation and/or the prediction.             For example, analytics
system 215 may identify a current state and one or more historical states (e.g., historical
instances of similar states, states that match the current state within a threshold, or the like),
identify historical recommendations, historical predictions and outcomes associated with the
one or more historical states, and generate the recommendation based on the historical
recommendations and outcomes (e.g., such that recommendations and/or predictions that
resulted in positive outcomes may be repeated).           In some implementations, the nearest
neighbor of the nearest neighbor analysis can be nearest in state, nearest in time, a
combination thereof, or the like.
[0072]      In some implementations, analytics system 215 may store or have access to a
prediction model associated with predicting and/or forecasting the recommended dosage of
the treatment. For example, analytics system 215 may receive historical lifestyle information

                                                24
associated with the individual and/or one or more other individuals, and may create a
prediction model associated with predicting and/or forecasting the recommended dosage of
the treatment and/or a prediction associated with the medial problem (e.g., a predicted trend
of blood glucose levels). In some implementations, analytics system 215 may create the
model and may implement one or more analytic techniques, such as regression, uplift
modeling, forecasting, neural networks, random forests, or the like. In this example, analytics
system 215 may provide lifestyle information (e.g., received at a later time) as an input to the
prediction model, and may receive, as an output, the predicted recommended dosage of the
treatment and/or a prediction associated with the medical problem.               For example, as
described herein, the prediction and/or the recommended dosage of the treatment may be
based on lifestyle information that identifies a trend in a metric (e.g., a trend of blood glucose
levels based on the effect of the individual's activity, foods consumed, etc.) and the effect of
treatment on the metric (e.g., the effect of medicine and/or glucose consumption on the
individual's blood glucose levels).
[0073]      In some implementations, analytics system 215 may train and/or update the
prediction model (e.g., based on additional lifestyle information received at a later time).
Additionally, or alternatively, analytics system 215 may train and/or update the prediction
model based on user input. For example, analytics system 215 may update the prediction
model based on actual dosage information, associated with an actual dosage of treatment
administered by the individual, after a recommendation and/or a prediction is provided by
analytics system 215.
[0074]      As further shown in Fig. 4, process 400 may include providing information
associated with the recommendation and/or the prediction (block 430).                For example,
analytics system 215 may provide the information associated with the recommendation
and/or the prediction to one or more user devices 205. In some implementations, analytics
system 215 may provide information associated with the recommendation (e.g., a
recommended dosage, a recommended time to administer the dosage, or the like). In some
implementations, analytics system 215 may provide information associated with the
prediction (e.g., a predicted time at which a blood glucose level will satisfy a threshold, a
predicted blood glucose level at a particular time, or the like).

                                                  25
[0075]      In some implementations, analytics system 215 may provide, for display, one or
more user interfaces associated with the recommendation and/or the prediction.                For
example, in addition to providing, for display, information associated with the recommended
dosage, analytics system 215 may provide one or more user interfaces (e.g., graphs, charts,
lists, images, etc.) associated with activity information associated with the individual, medical
information associated with the individual (e.g., blood glucose levels of the individual), sleep
pattern information associated with the individual, diet information associated with the
individual, or the like.
[0076]      In some implementations, analytics system 215 may provide, for display,
information associated with one or more items of lifestyle information that were used to
generate the recommendation.        In such a case, the user may update (e.g., modify, edit,
correct, or the like) the one or more items of lifestyle information. Here, analytics system
215 may receive, from user device 205, the updated lifestyle information, update the lifestyle
timeline, and update the recommendation or the prediction, accordingly (e.g., based on the
updated lifestyle information and/or the updated lifestyle timeline). Analytics system 215
may provide the updated recommendation and/or the updated prediction to allow the
individual to make a judgment regarding monitoring and/or managing the medical problem
(e.g., rather than a diagnosis or a prescription). In some implementations, the user may
provide information identifying the treatment used to manage the medical problem to
analytics system 215, and analytics system 215 may store this information for future use
(e.g., to determine trends in blood glucose levels at a future time). For example, the user
may indicate, via user device 205, that the user injected a particular amount of insulin or
consumed a particular amount of glucose based on receiving the recommendation.
[0077]      As a particular example of how analytics system 215 may operate, assume that
analytics system 215 is to provide a recommended treatment dosage to an individual with
diabetes (e.g., a dosage of insulin and/or a dosage of glucose). In this case, analytics system
215 may receive (e.g., from a server associated with a calendar application) school schedule
information associated with the individual, and may receive (e.g., from a fitness band worn
by the individual) historical physical activity information (e.g., for a most recent week, a most
recent month, etc.) indicating that the individual will either walk to school or bike to school.

                                                  26
Here, analytics system 215 may combine weather information (e.g., received from a server
associated with a weather application), and predict (e.g., for an upcoming day) whether the
individual will walk to school or bike to school. Analytics system 215 may then combine
sleep information (e.g., received from a sensor worn by the individual) with the walk or bike
prediction, and recommend an amount insulin to be administered to the individual for the
upcoming predicted physical activity (e.g., the walk or the bike ride) and/or predict a change
in a blood glucose level associated with the upcoming predicted physical activity.
[0078]     As another example associated with recommending an insulin dosage, analytics
system 215 may pair location information, associated with the individual, with transaction
information associated with a credit card of the individual. In one example case, analytics
system 215 may determine that the individual may be not be physically active for a period of
time (e.g., while watching a movie at a movie theater), and may identify food that will be
ingested during the non-active period of time, (e.g., by identifying a purchase of popcorn at
the movie theater). Here, analytics system 215 may, based on the location information and
the transaction information, predict a change in a blood glucose level and may determine a
recommended amount insulin to the individual, and provide the prediction and/or the
recommendation accordingly. More specifically, analytics system 215 may predict a change
in a blood glucose level and may determine a recommended amount of insulin to the
individual based on the activity of the individual and the food consumed by the user.
[0079]     As another example of how analytics system 215 may operate, again assume that
analytics system 215 is to provide a recommended dosage of insulin to an individual with
diabetes. In this example, assume that analytics system 215 has provided a recommended
dosage of insulin for an individual that is sitting down to eat a meal (e.g., a school lunch). In
this case, analytics system 215 may have determined the recommended dosage of insulin
based on lifestyle information including predicted physical activities in the near future (e.g.,
after the meal) and predicted nutrition information associated with the meal, such as a
quantity of carbohydrates, an amount of fat, or the like.
[0080]      In some implementations, the individual may provide information regarding the
meal (e.g., ingredients, portion sizes, etc.), and analytics system 215 may obtain nutritional

                                                27
information regarding the meal. Further, analytics system 215 may determine a trend in the
individual's blood glucose levels based on the consumption of the meal, recent activities,
and/or future activities. As described above, the future activities may be predicted based on
the individual's schedule information.      Additionally, or alternatively, the individual may
manually enter future activities.
[0081]      In some implementations, analytics system 215 may determine that the individual
did not participate in a predicted future activity (e.g., an exercise session) based on the
individual's vital signs (e.g., heart rate) obtained from a fitness band.          Additionally, or
alternatively, analytics system 215 may determine that the individual did not participate in a
predicted future activity (e.g., attending of a class) based on the individual's location.
Analytics system 215 may update predictions and/or recommendations                      based on
determining that the individual did not participate in a predicted future activity.
[0082]      In some implementations, analytics system 215 may cause an action to be
automatically    performed     based   on  providing the     information    associated   with   the
recommendation and/or the prediction. For example, the recommendation regarding dosage
may be automatically provided to an insulin pump, and the individual may accept, modify, or
cancel the recommendation via a user interface of the insulin pump.                       In some
implementations, recommendation regarding dosage may include a basil rate, bolus, and/or
other information that an insulin pump may use to adjust the dosage of insulin being provided
to the individual.
[0083]      As another example, analytics system 215 may provide the information
associated with the recommendation and/or the prediction in order to cause a notification
(e.g., an alarm, a vibration, a shock, a message) to be automatically provided by user device
205. As a particular example, analytics platform 215 may cause an alarm to be set on user
device 205, where the alarm may be configured to make an audible sound and/or provide
(e.g., via a display screen) the information associated with the recommendation and/or the
prediction prior to (e.g., 15 minutes before) and/or at a time that the individual's blood glucose
level is predicted to reach a threshold.

                                                  28
[0084]     As yet another example, analytics platform 215 may provide the information
associated with the recommendation and/or the prediction in order to cause a current
reading, of the health metric to be collected and/or provided for display to the individual (e.g.,
such that the current reading is provided to the individual along with the recommendation
and/or the prediction).
[0085]      In some implementations, the lifestyle information and/or the information
associated with the recommendation            and/or the prediction may be encrypted for
transmission to and/or from user device 205, server device 210, and/or analytics platform
215 (e.g., in order to protect privacy of the individual).
[0086]     Although Fig. 4 shows example blocks of process 400, in some implementations,
process 400 may include additional blocks, fewer blocks, different blocks, or differently
arranged blocks than those depicted in Fig. 4. Additionally, or alternatively, two or more of
the blocks of process 400 may be performed in parallel.
[0087]      Implementations described herein may provide a monitoring and treatment
dosage prediction system that is capable of determining lifestyle information associated with
an individual.      Further, implementations described herein may analyze the lifestyle
information (e.g., to identify patterns, correlations, trends, etc.) associated with the individual,
and provide the individual with a recommended dosage of the treatment (e.g., an immediate
dosage of the treatment, a future dosage of the treatment, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively,
implementations described herein may predict other conditions associated with the medical
problem (e.g., a predicted change or trend in a blood glucose level).
[0088]      In this way, processing resources, memory resources, and/or battery life of user
device 205 may be conserved (e.g., since user device 205 is not required to store the lifestyle
information, analyze the lifestyle information, create the lifestyle timeline, and/or generate
the recommendation and/or prediction.
[0089]      The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description, but is not intended
to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications

                                               29
and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice
of the implementations.
[0090]     As used herein, the term component is intended to be broadly construed as
hardware, firmware, and/or a combination of hardware and software.
[0091]      Some implementations are described herein in connection with thresholds. As
used herein, satisfying a threshold may refer to a value being greater than the threshold,
more than the threshold, higher than the threshold, greater than or equal to the threshold,
less than the threshold, fewer than the threshold, lower than the threshold, less than or equal
to the threshold, equal to the threshold, etc.
[0092]      Certain user interfaces have been described herein and/or shown in the figures.
A user interface may include a graphical user interface, a non-graphical user interface, a
text-based user interface, etc. A user interface may provide information for display. In some
implementations, a user may interact with the information, such as by providing input via an
input component of a device that provides the user interface for display.              In some
implementations, a user interface may be configurable by a device and/or a user (e.g., a user
may change the size of the user interface, information provided via the user interface, a
position of information provided via the user interface, etc.). Additionally, or alternatively, a
user interface may be pre-configured to a standard configuration, a specific configuration
based on a type of device on which the user interface is displayed, and/or a set of
configurations based on capabilities and/or specifications associated with a device on which
the user interface is displayed.
[0093]      It will be apparent that systems and/or methods, described herein, may be
implemented in different forms of hardware, firmware, or a combination of hardware and
software. The actual specialized control hardware or software code used to implement these
systems and/or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus, the operation and
behavior of the systems and/or methods were described herein without reference to specific
software code-it being understood that software and hardware can be designed to
implement the systems and/or methods based on the description herein.

                                                 30
[0094]       Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and/or
disclosed in the specification, these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of
possible implementations. In fact, many of these features may be combined in ways not
specifically recited in the claims and/or disclosed in the specification.         Although each
dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim, the disclosure of
possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other
claim in the claim set.
[0095]       No element, act, or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or
essential unless explicitly described as such. Also, as used herein, the articles "a" and "an"
are intended to include one or more items, and may be used interchangeably with "one or
more." Furthermore, as used herein, the term "set" is intended to include one or more items
(e.g., related items, unrelated items, a combination of related and unrelated items, etc.), and
may be used interchangeably with "one or more." Where only one item is intended, the term
"one" or similar language is used. Also, as used herein, the terms "has," "have," "having," or
the like are intended to be open-ended terms. Further, the phrase "based on" is intended to
mean "based, at least in part, on" unless explicitly stated otherwise.
[0096]       Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or step, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features or
steps.
[0097]       The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art forms part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                  31
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.     A computer-implemented method for adjusting a dosage associated with treating or
managing a medical condition, including:
        receiving, by a device and from at least one of a sensor or a user device or a server
device via a network, lifestyle information corresponding to an individual with a medical
condition;
       creating, by the device and based on receiving the lifestyle information, a lifestyle
timeline associated with the individual,
       the lifestyle timeline:
               including a plurality of items of lifestyle information, included in the lifestyle
        information, and
               having the plurality of items of lifestyle information arranged in a chronological
       order;
               generating, by the device and based on receiving the lifestyle timeline, a
        recommendation or a prediction associated with a metric related to the medical
       condition,
               the recommendation being generated based on one or more of the plurality of
        items of lifestyle information, or
               the prediction being generated using a prediction model that uses one or more
       of the plurality of items of lifestyle information as input,
               receiving, by the device and from another device via the network, transaction
       information associated with a purchase of food by a user of the user device;
               receiving, by the device via the network, location information associated with
       the user;
               generating, by the device and based on the transaction information and the
       location information, an updated recommendation regarding insulin dosage; and
               providing, by the device and to an insulin device, via the network information
       associated with the updated recommendation; and

                                                 32
                causing, by the device, the insulin device to adjust a dosage of insulin to a
         recommended dosage identified by the information associated with the updated
         recommendation.
2.      A method according to claim 1, further including:
        determining a set of predictive factors associated with the medical condition,
        a predictive factor, of the set of predictive factors, being a factor or an amount by
which the metric is predicted to be affected by an item of lifestyle information of the plurality
of items of lifestyle information; and
        where generating the recommendation or the prediction associated with the metric
         includes:
                generating the recommendation or the prediction based on the set of predictive
        factors.
3.      A method according to either claim 1 or claim 2, where the plurality of items of lifestyle
information includes a combination of historical items of lifestyle information, current items
of lifestyle information, and future items of lifestyle information.
4.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, where receiving the lifestyle
information includes:
         receiving the lifestyle information based on user input via the user device associated
with the individual.
5.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, where receiving the lifestyle
information includes:
        automatically receiving the lifestyle information from the user device associated with
the individual.
6.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, where the location
information includes at least one of:
         information that identifies a geographic location of the individual,

                                                   33
         information indicating whether the individual is indoors or outdoors, or
         information indicating that the individual is at a particular place.
7.      A method according to any one of the preceding claims, where providing the
information associated with the updated recommendation includes:
         providing the information associated with the updated recommendation to cause a
notification to be provided by the user device.
8.      A device for identifying a dosage associated with treating or managing a medical
problem, including:
        one or more processors that:
         receive, from at least one of a sensor of a user device or a server device via a network,
lifestyle information corresponding to an individual with a medical problem;
        create, based on receiving the lifestyle information, a lifestyle timeline associated with
the individual,
        the lifestyle timeline:
                 including a plurality of items of lifestyle information included in the lifestyle
         information, and
                 having the plurality of items of lifestyle information arranged in a chronological
        order;
                 generate, based on receiving the lifestyle timeline, a recommendation or a
         prediction associated with a health metric related to the medical problem,
                 the recommendation including a recommended dosage of a treatment
        associated with the health metric and being generated based on one or more of the
         plurality of items of lifestyle information, or
                 the prediction including a predicted value of the health metric at a future time
        and being generated by a prediction model that uses one or more items of the plurality
        of items of lifestyle information as input;
                 receive, from another device via the network, transaction information
        associated with a purchase of food by a user of the user device;
                 receive, via the network, location information associated with the user;

                                                 34
                generate, based on the transaction information and the location information,
        an updated recommendation regarding insulin dosage;
                provide, to an insulin device via the network, information associated with the
        updated recommendation; and
                cause the insulin device to adjust a dosage of insulin to a recommended insulin
        dosage identified by the information associated with the updated recommendation.
9.      A device according to claim 8, where the one or more processors further:
        determine, based on the lifestyle timeline, a current state associated with the
individual; and
        identify, using a nearest neighbor analysis, a historical state similar to the current
state; and
        where the one or more processors, when generating the recommendation or the
prediction:
                generate the recommendation or the prediction based on a historical
        recommendation or a historical prediction corresponding to the historical state.
10.     A device according to either claim 8 or claim 9, where the one or more processors,
when receiving the lifestyle information:
        receive the lifestyle information from the server device, the server device having
access to the lifestyle information.
11.     A device according to any one of claims 8 to 10, where the one or more processors
further:
        merge, combine, or normalize the lifestyle information to create converted lifestyle
information,
        the converted lifestyle information being formatted to permit creation of the lifestyle
timeline; and
        where the one or more processors, when creating the lifestyle timeline:
                create the lifestyle timeline based on the converted lifestyle information.

                                                35
12.     A device according to any one of claims 8 to 11, where the one or more processors
further:
        determine, based on the lifestyle information, a current value associated with the
health metric; and
        where the one or more processors, when generating the recommendation or the
prediction:
               generate the recommendation or the prediction based on the current value of
        the health metric.
13.     A device according to any one of claims 8 to 12, where the one or more processors,
when receiving the lifestyle information:
        receive the lifestyle information from the user device, the user device being a device
that is worn by the individual.
14.     A device according to any one of claims 8 to 13, where the lifestyle information
includes at least one of:
        event information from a schedule or calendar associated with the individual;
        sleep information associated with the individual;
        information associated with an activity in which the individual has participated, is
participating in, or is to participate;
        information associated with a diet of the individual;
        biological information associated with the individual;
        information associated with an emotional state of the individual;
        medical information, associated with treating the medical problem, corresponding to
the individual;
        information associated with a location of the individual;
        environmental information associated with the individual; or
        information associated with one or more transactions associated with the individual.
15.     A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions for identifying a
dosage associated with treating or managing a medical problem, the instructions including:

                                                36
      one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
              receive, from at least one of a sensor of a user device or a server device via a
       network, lifestyle information corresponding to an individual with a medical problem;
              create, based on receiving the lifestyle information, a lifestyle timeline
      associated with the individual,
              the lifestyle timeline:
                       including a plurality of items of lifestyle information included in the
              lifestyle information, and
                       having the plurality of items of lifestyle information arranged in a
              chronological order;
              determine, based on receiving the lifestyle information, a current value of a
       metric associated with the medical problem;
              generate, based on receiving the lifestyle timeline and the current value of the
       metric, a recommendation or a prediction associated with the metric,
                      the recommendation being generated based on a first set of the plurality
              of items of lifestyle information, or
                      the prediction being generated using a predictive model that uses a
              second set of the plurality of items of lifestyle information as input; and
              receive, from another device via the network, transaction information
      associated with a purchase of food by a user of the user device;
              receive, via the network, location information associated with the user;
              generate, based on the transaction information and the location information,
      an updated recommendation regarding an insulin dosage;
              provide, to an insulin device via the network, information associated with the
       updated recommendation; and
                      cause the insulin device to adjust a dosage of insulin to a recommended
              dosage      identified  by   the  information    associated   with   the   updated
              recommendation.

                                               37
16.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 15, where the one or
more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or
more processors to:
       receive updated lifestyle information corresponding to the individual,
       the updated lifestyle information being different from the lifestyle information;
       update the lifestyle timeline, based on the updated lifestyle information, to create an
updated lifestyle timeline; and
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
generate the updated recommendation, cause the one or more processors to:
                generate,    based   on   the   updated     lifestyle timeline,   the    updated
       recommendation.
17.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to either claim 15 or claim 16,
where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further
cause the one or more processors to:
       determine a set of predictive factors associated with the medical problem,
       a predictive factor, of the set of predictive factors, being a factor or an amount by
which the metric is predicted to be affected by an item of lifestyle information of the plurality
of items of lifestyle information; and
       where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to
       generate the recommendation or the prediction, cause the one or more processors
       to:
                generate the recommendation or the prediction further based on the set of
       predictive factors.
18.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 15 to 17,
where the updated          recommendation   identifies a recommended         time at which a
recommended dosage of a treatment, associated with the medical problem, should be
administered.

                                                 38
19.   A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 15 to 18,
where the plurality of items of lifestyle information includes at least two of:
       historical items of lifestyle information;
      current items of lifestyle information; or
      future items of lifestyle information.
20.   A non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 15 to 19,
where the transaction information includes at least one of:
      an amount of a transaction,
       information that identifies items associated with the transaction, or
       information associated with a digital receipt.
1a.   A method, including:
       receiving, by a device, lifestyle information corresponding to an individual with a
medical condition;
      creating, by the device and based on the lifestyle information, a lifestyle timeline
associated with the individual,
      the lifestyle timeline:
               including a plurality of items of lifestyle information, included in the lifestyle
       information, and
               having the plurality of items of lifestyle information arranged in a chronological
      order;
               generating,    by   the   device    and   based    on  the   lifestyle timeline, a
       recommendation or a prediction associated with a metric related to the medical
      condition,
               the recommendation being generated based on one or more of the plurality of
       items of lifestyle information, or
               the prediction being generated using a prediction model that uses one or more
      of the plurality of items of lifestyle information as input, and generates the prediction
       using the prediction model; and

                                                  39
                providing, by the device, information associated with the recommendation or
       the prediction,
               the information associated with the recommendation or the prediction being
       provided to identify a dosage associated with treating or managing the medical
       condition,
               the dosage being identified based on the recommendation or the prediction.
2a.    A device, including:
       one or more processors that:
       receive lifestyle information corresponding to an individual with a medical problem;
       create, based on the lifestyle information, a lifestyle timeline associated with the
individual,
       the lifestyle timeline:
                including a plurality of items of lifestyle information included in the lifestyle
       information, and
                having the plurality of items of lifestyle information arranged in a chronological
       order;
               generate, based on the lifestyle timeline, a recommendation or a prediction
       associated with a health metric related to the medical problem,
               the recommendation including a recommended dosage of a treatment
       associated with the health metric and being generated based on one or more of the
       plurality of items of lifestyle information, or
               the prediction including a predicted value of the health metric at a future time
       and being generated by a prediction model that uses one or more items of the plurality
       of lifestyle information as input; and
                provide, for display to the individual, information associated with the
       recommendation or the prediction,
               the information associated with the recommendation being provided to identify
       the recommended dosage, or
               the information associated with the prediction being provided to identify the
       predicted value of the health metric.

                                                40
3a.    A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions
including:
       one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the
one or more processors to:
              receive lifestyle information corresponding to an individual with a medical
       problem;
              create, based on the lifestyle information, a lifestyle timeline associated with
       the individual,
              the lifestyle timeline:
                       including a plurality of items of lifestyle information included in the
              lifestyle information, and
                       having the plurality of items of lifestyle information arranged in a
              chronological order;
                      determine, based on the lifestyle information, a current value of a metric
              associated with the medical problem;
                      generate, based on the lifestyle timeline and the current value of the
              metric, a recommendation or a prediction associated with the metric,
                      the recommendation being generated based on a first set of the plurality
              of items of lifestyle information, or
                      the prediction being generated using a predictive model that uses a
              second set of the plurality of items of lifestyle information as input, and
              generates the prediction using the predictive model; and
                       provide information    associated with the recommendation         or the
              prediction,
                      the information associated with the recommendation or the prediction
              being provided to identify a dosage, associated with the medical problem, or
              the prediction associated with the metric.

                                                              <U+271E><U+271D> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702>
                                                                                                    <U+2725><U+271C><U+2719><U+2717><U+2716><U+2712><U+2719>
                                                                                                 <U+272B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E><U+270F><U+2719><U+2605> 
         <U+273E><U+2740><U+2732> <U+272E><U+2723> <U+2719><U+273F><U+2712><U+2727><U+2722><U+2605> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2719><U+2724><U+2716><U+2712><U+2719><U+271C><U+2732> <U+270D><U+2719><U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2724><U+2724><U+2722><U+271A><U+2719><U+273B><U+273E>
       <U+2736><U+2735><U+2732>        <U+2741><U+2735><U+2732>                 <U+2734><U+2732>                 <U+2733><U+2732>
                          <U+270D><U+2713><U+2722><U+2717><U+2727><U+2719><U+271C><U+2717><U+2732>                                                 <U+2722><U+2731><U+270C><U+261E>
                                                           <U+2724><U+2719><U+2713><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>                                <U+2725><U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+271A><U+270E><U+2713>
                                                                                 <U+2719><U+2713><U+272E><U+2716><U+2727><U+2719><U+2731><U+270E><U+2730>
                                                           <U+2713><U+2712><U+271A><U+270E><U+270D><U+2719><U+2718>                                <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E><U+270F><U+2719><U+2605> <U+271C>
                                                                                    <U+272F><U+2701>
              <U+2716><U+2727><U+2712><U+271A><U+2719><U+271C><U+2722><U+273D>
                                                                      <U+2724><U+2719><U+2716><U+2727><U+272E><U+2729>
                   <U+2719><U+270C><U+270E><U+2713><U+2719><U+2724><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2719><U+2713><U+272E><U+2716><U+2727><U+2719><U+2731><U+270E><U+2730> <U+270C><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2719><U+2727><U+2712><U+2739>                       <U+2727><U+271A><U+270E><U+2716><U+272E><U+2713><U+2712><U+270C><U+272C>
              <U+2716><U+2727><U+2712><U+271A><U+2719><U+271C><U+2722><U+273D><U+273C><U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2724><U+2724><U+2722><U+271A><U+2719><U+273B> <U+2719><U+2716><U+2712><U+271C><U+2719><U+270C><U+2719><U+273A>                                                   <U+2725><U+2719><U+270C><U+2722><U+2717><U+271B> <U+2716><U+271C>
1/5
                               <U+272F>                                                                    <U+272B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E><U+270F><U+2719>
                                                                                                      <U+271C><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726>
                         <U+2716><U+270C><U+2719><U+270F><U+2737>   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2719><U+2718>               <U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+271A><U+2712><U+2727><U+270C><U+2712><U+271C><U+2732>
        <U+2736><U+2735><U+2732>                                     <U+272E><U+2716><U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+2716><U+271A><U+272C>       <U+2733><U+2732>                      <U+2722><U+2731><U+270C><U+261E>
                                           <U+2734><U+2732>
                                                                                     <U+2719><U+2713><U+272E><U+2716><U+2727><U+2719><U+2731><U+270E><U+2730>
                                                                                       <U+272F><U+2701>         <U+2725><U+2717><U+271A><U+2716><U+2712><U+272A> 
                     <U+2722><U+2731><U+270C><U+261E> <U+2719><U+2713><U+272E><U+2716><U+2727><U+2719><U+2731><U+270E><U+2730> <U+270C><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2719><U+2727><U+2712><U+2739>                                                        <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E><U+270F><U+2719>
                    <U+2719><U+270C><U+270E><U+2713><U+2719><U+2724><U+270E><U+2732> <U+2719><U+2713><U+272E><U+2716><U+2727><U+2719><U+2731><U+270E><U+2730> <U+2719><U+2716><U+2712><U+2719><U+271C><U+2738>
                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                       <U+261B><U+271F><U+2721>
      <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                                                   <U+271D> <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702>
             <U+2720><U+270F><U+270E><U+271D><U+270D><U+2717><U+270C><U+2702><U+2706><U+261E><U+260E><U+270E><U+2716><U+2702><U+261B><U+2715><U+2721><U+2714><U+2702><U+2720><U+270F><U+260E><U+2721><U+271F><U+2706><U+271E><U+270E><U+2713><U+2702><U+260E><U+271E><U+2712><U+271D><U+2711><U+2702><U+2711><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2706><U+270F><U+2721><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701>                 <U+272B> <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E><U+270F><U+2719><U+2605>
       <U+2736><U+2735><U+2732>         <U+2741><U+2735><U+2732>                  <U+2734><U+2732>                    <U+2733><U+2732>              <U+271C><U+2719><U+2727><U+2726>
2/5
                          <U+270D><U+2713><U+2722><U+2717><U+2727><U+2719><U+271C><U+2717><U+2732>                                                         <U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+271A><U+270E><U+270D><U+2719><U+271C><U+271B>
                                                               <U+2724><U+2719><U+2713><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>                 <U+273C><U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2724><U+2724><U+2722><U+271A>
                                                               <U+2713><U+2712><U+271A><U+270E><U+270D><U+2719><U+2718>                      <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C><U+261E>
                                                                                               <U+2701><U+272B>
             <U+2716><U+2727><U+2712><U+271A><U+2719><U+271C><U+2722><U+273D>
              <U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+271A><U+270E><U+270D><U+2719><U+271C><U+271B><U+273C><U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2724><U+2724><U+2722><U+271A><U+2719><U+273B> <U+272E><U+2712><U+2713><U+272D><U+2727><U+270E><U+2605>
                               <U+272F><U+272B>
      <removed-date>           <removed-apn>

                                             <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702>
                                                       <U+272F><U+272B><U+272B>
3/5
                                                      <U+2704><U+271C><U+2722><U+2715><U+2716><U+2719><U+2702>
                                             <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2701> <U+272B>              <U+2701><U+2701> <U+272B>
           <U+2701><U+272B><U+272B> <U+2716><U+270C><U+2719><U+2724><U+270C><U+2722><U+271C><U+270E><U+270F><U+270C><U+2737> <U+273F><U+270C><U+270E><U+2716><U+2711><U+272D><U+2724><U+2722><U+2738> <U+270D><U+2711><U+2722><U+2713><U+2738>   <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E><U+270F><U+2719><U+2605>             <U+2719><U+271A><U+270E><U+270F><U+2719><U+2605>
                                             <U+271C><U+2719><U+270F><U+271C><U+2719><U+2729>             <U+271C><U+2719><U+270F><U+271C><U+2719><U+2729>
      <removed-date>      <removed-apn>

                                                  <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702>
                            <U+2701>   <U+2702><U+2701>                   <U+2701>   <U+260E><U+2701>                  <U+2701><U+272F>   <U+2701>
                            <U+2719><U+271A><U+2712><U+2731><U+271C><U+2719><U+2716><U+270C><U+261E>             <U+2716><U+270C><U+2719><U+270C><U+2722><U+272D><U+2724><U+2722><U+2738>               <U+2716><U+270C><U+2719><U+270C><U+2722><U+272D><U+2724><U+2722><U+2738>
                        <U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+271A><U+270E><U+270C><U+2711><U+2724><U+2724><U+2722><U+2738>               <U+2716><U+2711><U+272D><U+2716><U+2711> <U+2704>                  <U+2716><U+2711><U+272D><U+270C><U+261E>
4/5
               <U+2701>   <U+2706><U+2701>                    <U+2701>   <U+2701><U+2701>                 <U+2701><U+272B>   <U+2701>
            <U+2716><U+270C><U+2719><U+270C><U+2722><U+272D><U+2724><U+2722><U+2738>
                                        <U+272E><U+271C><U+2722><U+2724><U+2719><U+2718>                <U+271C><U+2722><U+2727><U+2727><U+2719><U+271A><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>
              <U+2719><U+273F><U+2712><U+271C><U+2722><U+2716><U+2729>
      <removed-date>       <removed-apn>

                                            <U+2706><U+260E><U+2704><U+2702>
                           <U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+271A><U+270E><U+270D><U+2719><U+271C><U+272D> <U+2719><U+2717><U+2716> <U+271C><U+2722><U+273C><U+270D><U+270C><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2724><U+2724><U+2722><U+271A><U+2719><U+271C>
                           <U+2719><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2717><U+2716><U+270E><U+2715> <U+270D><U+2719><U+2716><U+2712><U+270E><U+271A><U+2722><U+2727><U+2727><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+2724><U+271C><U+2722><U+2731><U+270C><U+270E> <U+2719><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B>     <U+2701><U+2701><U+2706>
                   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2717><U+2716> <U+2722><U+2716> <U+273F><U+270C><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+2713><U+2719><U+271C> <U+2724><U+2719><U+2713><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+272D> <U+2713><U+2712><U+271A><U+270E><U+270D><U+2719><U+2724> <U+2712> <U+2717><U+2716><U+270E><U+2715>
                     <U+270D><U+2719><U+2716><U+2712><U+270E><U+271A><U+2722><U+2727><U+2727><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+271A><U+270E><U+270D><U+2719><U+271C><U+272D> <U+2712> <U+271C><U+2722><U+273C><U+270D><U+270C><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+270D><U+270C><U+2719><U+2724><U+2724><U+2722><U+271A><U+2719><U+271C>
5/5                    <U+2701>                                   <U+2701>
                      <U+2712> <U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+2724><U+271C><U+2722><U+2731><U+270C><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2713><U+272E><U+2716><U+2727><U+2719><U+2731><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+2717><U+2716> <U+270C><U+2722> <U+270D><U+2719><U+2727><U+2712><U+2723> <U+2719><U+2716><U+2712><U+271C><U+2719><U+270C><U+2719><U+273A>
                                                                       <U+2701><U+272B><U+2706>
                                   <U+2713><U+2712><U+2711><U+270D><U+270E><U+270F><U+270E><U+270D><U+270C><U+270E> <U+270C><U+2712> <U+2717><U+2716><U+270E><U+2715>
                       <U+270D><U+2719><U+2716><U+2712><U+270E><U+271A><U+2722><U+2727><U+2727><U+2712> <U+270C><U+2722><U+270E><U+2716><U+2712><U+2724><U+271C><U+2722><U+2731><U+270C><U+270E> <U+2719><U+2713><U+272E><U+2716><U+2727><U+2719><U+2731><U+270E><U+2713> <U+2719><U+270C><U+270E><U+2724><U+271C><U+2719><U+2716><U+2719><U+2605>      <U+2701> <U+2706>
<removed-date>   <removed-apn>

