                                           ABSTRACT
          A system, including a database interface configured to communicate with a
database, a communication interface configured to communicate with a client device, a
processor configured to communicate with the database interface and the communication
interface, the processor further configured to receive, through the communication interface,
an activation request from the client device, the activation request requesting activation of a
data card interaction tracking tool, activate the data card interaction tracking tool based on
the received activation request, in response to the activated data card interaction tracking
tool, track interactive steps taken by the client device to result in a changed state of a running
application, generate data cards, wherein each data card includes a description of the
interactive steps thereby identifying a tracked interaction with the running application and a
state change of the running application resulting from the tracked interaction, store the data
cards in a data card deck for the running application such that the data card deck identifies
the interactive steps and associated states, and transmit, through the database interface,
the data card deck to the database.

                                    1/8
                                    100
    140
                                                  14 4
Application Server                             (
                                                        Memory
                                            ,-150
                                                Data Card Interaction
                                                     Tracking Tool
                                                                      151
                                                   Control Circuitry
                                                  11152
         Processor                               bata Card Tracking
                                                        Circuitry
                                                                 153
                                                       Data Card
                                                 Utilization Circuitry
                          142                               13       ,
        ommuication                                        Database Interface
          Interface
                                                                        120
                                   130                       Data Card
                                                                Decks
            160
               r110
                               Communication       -112
                                  Interface             r114
                                                          Memory
                         I C111
                  Processor                                 Web
                                                        application
                                                          browser
                                Input/Output
                                  Device(s)
                                 Figure 1

                                                1
 DATA INTERACTION CARDS FOR CAPTURING AND REPLAYING LOGIC
                                   IN VISUAL ANALYSES
CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001]      This Application is a Divisional Application of Australian Patent Application
Number <removed-apn> filed 22 February 2017, the content of which is also incorporated by
reference herein.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0001a]     Application development programs, as well as the applications being developed
by the application development programs, may offer a number of different operational
features for achieving a desired operational result, navigating to a desired destination, or
creating a new desired component. For instance, an image editing program may implement
dozens of image editing functions to adjust colors, modify resolution or image size, add
special effects, manage image layers, and provide other functions. Given the number of
options and features made available by applications to achieve desired results, one user
may use a first set of features to take one series of interactions with an application to
accomplish the desired result, while another user may use another set of features to take a
different series of interactions with the same application to achieve the same result. That is,
within the same application, different users may arrive at different, same, or similar desired
results via very different sequences of operational interactions with the application.

                                                 2
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0002]      In one aspect, the present invention provides a system, including a database
interface configured to communicate with a database, a communication interface configured
to communicate with a client device, a processor configured to communicate with the
database interface and the communication interface, the processor further configured to
receive, through the communication interface, an activation request from the client device,
the activation request requesting activation of a data card interaction tracking tool, activate
the data card interaction tracking tool based on the received activation request, in response
to the activated data card interaction tracking tool, track interactive steps taken by the client
device to result in a changed state of a running application, generate data cards, wherein
each data card includes a description of the interactive steps thereby identifying a tracked
interaction with the running application and a state change of the running application
resulting from the tracked interaction, store the data cards in a data card deck for the running
application such that the data card deck identifies the interactive steps and associated states,
and transmit, through the database interface, the data card deck to the database.
[0003]      Inanother aspect, the present invention provides a method for tracking application
interactions, including monitoring a data card interaction tracking tool, detecting an activation
state for the data card interaction tracking tool based on the monitoring, activating a data
card interaction tracking tool based on the detected activation state, in response to the
activated data card interaction tracking tool, tracking interactive steps resulting in a changed
state of a running application detected during an application session, generating data cards,
wherein each data card includes a description of the interactive steps thereby identifying a
tracked interaction with the running application and a state change of the running application
resulting from the tracked interaction, storing the data cards in a data card deck such that
the data card deck identifies the interactive steps and associated states, and transmitting,
through a database interface, the data card deck to a database for storing.
[0004]      In yet another aspect, the present invention provides a network system, including
a database interface configured to communicate with a database, a communication interface
configured to communicate with a client device, a processor configured to communicate with
the database interface and the communication interface, the processor further configured to

                                               3
receive, through the communication interface, a search query from the client device, select
a data card deck from the database based on the search query, the data card deck including
data cards that each include a description of tracked interactive steps taken by the client
device with an application thereby identifying a tracked interaction and a state change of the
application resulting from the tracked interaction, receive, through the communication
interface, data card selections from the client device, activate the selected data cards
included in the data card deck, and control an application to revert to the states of the
application resulting from the tracked interaction identified in the selected data cards.

                                                 4
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0005]     Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary interaction tracking platform system.
[0006]     Figure 2 illustrates a block diagram of an exemplary computer architecture for a
device in the exemplary interaction tracking system illustrated in Figure 1.
[0007]     Figure 3 illustrates an exemplary client-server block diagram describing
components of a data card interaction tracking tool running on a client-side communication
device and a server-side communication device, according to some embodiments.
[0008]     Figure 4 illustrates a flow diagram of logic that a data card interaction tracking tool
may implement.
[0009]     Figure 5 illustrates an additional flow diagram of logic that a data card interaction
tracking tool may implement.
[0010]     Figure 6 illustrates an exemplary graphical interface of an application and a data
card interaction tracking tool.
[0011]     Figure 7 illustrates an exemplary graphical interface of an application and a data
card interaction tracking tool.
[0012]     Figure 8 illustrates an exemplary graphical interface of a data card interaction
tracking tool.

                                                5
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE EMBODIMENT(S) OF THE INVENTION
[0013]     The methods, devices, systems, and other features discussed below may be
embodied in a number of different forms.        Not all of the depicted components may be
required, however, and some implementations may include additional, different, or fewer
components from those expressly described in this disclosure. Variations in the arrangement
and type of the components may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the
claims as set forth herein.    Further, variations in the processes described, including the
addition, deletion, or rearranging and order of logical operations, may be made without
departing from the spirit or scope of the claims as set forth herein.
[0014]     Given the increasing level of connectivity between users through communication
networks (e.g., the Internet), there has been increased interest and use of web-based
applications. A web-based application is generally understood to be an application stored
and configured to operate, at least in part, on a web server accessible to other
communication devices connected to a common communication network. A user operating
their communication device may communicate with the web-server through the common
communication network to access and operate the web-based application. The web-based
application offers many features, such as accessibility to remote users, based on its
framework being stored on web server(s). The web-based application also has access to a
vast amount of information available through the communication network. Such features
give a user of the web-based application many different options for interacting with the web
based application.
[0015]     The interaction tracking system ("system") described below provides an
interaction tracking platform configured to provide the tools, including the instrumentation
and software instructions, for tracking a user's interaction with an application. Although the
disclosure references web-based applications, the interaction tracking platform is also
applicable to static applications locally running on a computing system, as well as mobile
applications running, at least in part, on a user's mobile computing device. Tracking the
user's interactions may include recording the user's interactions with the application that
changes a state of the application, analyzing the user's interactions to detect and store
metadata related to the user's interactions, storing information related to a state of the

                                                 6
application based on the user's interaction with the application, and storing information
describing the application's state changes. The system may be initiated to track interactions
during an application session period when the application is active. Specific identifiable
interactions may be stored into individual data structures referred to as a data card, and the
data cards that are generated during the application session may be stored into a data
structure referred to as a data card deck. Note that while the examples below may make
specific reference to web-based applications, the tracking platform may be applied to any
application, whether web-based or running stand-alone on an individual computing platform.
[0016]      The system also provides a unique way of presenting information to a user
through the data cards. The system generates the data cards, including information related
to the user's interactions with the application. The data cards also include application state
information that may result from the user's interactions with the application. By including
both interaction and state information, the user may later activate the data card to cause the
application to revert back to a state described by the data card.          In cases where the
application is not currently running, the data card activation may consequently initiate the
application to begin running and transition to the state described in the activated data card.
[0017]      Tracking a user's interactions with an application may be beneficial to record how
a user achieved a desired result on the application, particularly where complex applications
provide many different ways to the desired result. For example, the data cards that are
included in the data card deck may describe interactive steps the user took with the
application to achieve the desired result. The tracked interactions may be presented through
the data cards as a time lapsed video recording of the user's interactions on the application,
a written description of the user's interactions on the application, an audio description of the
user's interactions on the application, or some combination thereof. The tracked interactions
may include the user's selection of selectable options on the application, the user's input into
input field of the application (e.g., search input fields), or some combination thereof.
[0018]      Without the generation of the data cards and the data card deck, a subsequent
user, development team, or other supervisory or regulatory entity desiring to understand the
steps for achieving the same application result, may have difficulty recalling how certain
results were achieved. The data card deck (or individual data cards from the data card deck)

                                               7
may be stored so that the user (or other user) may later retrieve the data card deck and
review the interactions described by the data cards in an effort to recreate the desired result.
The user may retrieve the data card deck from a database in which the data card deck is
stored, or the data card deck may be transmitted to another user to present the tracked
interactions to the other user. By reviewing the interactions described by the data cards, the
other user may then be able to recreate the same desired result on the application as the
user having created the data card deck. By reviewing the interactions and the state of the
data cards, this other user may be able to identify or validate the scenario presented to the
user to identify the critical components for improving future prioritization or presentation and
development of data cards.
[0019]      These and other features of the interaction tracking system are described in this
disclosure.
[0020]      Figure 1 illustrates exemplary system architecture for interaction tracking system
100 that includes component devices for implementing the described features. The system
100 includes an application server 140 configured to include the hardware, software, and/or
middleware for operating the described data card interaction tracking tool 150. Application
server 140 is shown to include a processor 141, a memory 144, a communication interface
142, and a database interface 143. The data card interaction tracking tool 150 may be
operated as part of an add-on tool for an application also running on the application server
140. Alternatively, the data card interaction tracking tool 150 may be run independently of
the application being tracked by the data card interaction tracking tool 150. For example,
the application being tracked by the data card interaction tracking tool 150 may be running
on a secondary application server 160, or a communication device 110, within the system
100. The application being tracked may also be running independently on the application
server 140. According to some embodiments, portions, or all, of the data card interaction
tracking tool 150 may be running on the communication device 110.
[0021]      The system 100 further includes a database 120 configured to store data card
decks, wherein each data card deck may include one or more data cards. The data card
decks that are stored on the database 120 may have been received from application server
140 based on an operation of the data card interaction tracking tool 150. The data card

                                                 8
decks that are stored on the database 120 may later be retrieved by the application server
140 based on an operation of the data card interaction tracking tool 150. The transmission
of data card decks to the database 120, and the retrieval of data card decks from the
database 120, may be accomplished by the application server 140 controlling the database
interface 143.
[0022]      The secondary application server 160 may be configured to communicate with
the application server 140 either directly, or through network 130. The secondary application
server 160 may be configured to store and/or operate a web-based application that is being
tracked by the data card interaction tracking tool 150, according to some embodiments.
[0023]      The system 100 communicates with any number and type of client devices, as
represented by the communication device 110. The communication device 110 may include
well known computing systems, environments, and/or configurations that may be suitable for
implementing features of the data card interaction tracking tool 150 such as, but are not
limited to, smart phones, tablet computers, personal computers (PCs), server computers,
handheld or laptop devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based systems,
network PCs, server computers, minicomputers, mainframe computers, embedded systems,
distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices, and
the like.
[0024]      Figure 1 shows that the communication device 110 includes a processor 111, a
memory 114 configured to store the instructions for operating a web application browser, an
input/output devices 113, and a communication interface 112.            A user operating the
communication device 110 may run the web application browser to access the data card
interaction tracking tool 150 running on the application server 140. As mentioned, according
to some embodiments at least some portions of the data card interaction tracking tool 150
may be stored on the memory 114 and/or operated to run on the communication device 110.
[0025]      Data card interaction tracking tool 150 may be a representation of software,
hardware, and/or middleware configured to implement features described herein, such as
for the tracking of user interactions with an application and application state information for
the application based on the user's interactions. For example, the application being tracked

                                                 9
and/or the data card interaction tracking tool 150 may be a web-based application operating,
for example, according to a .NET framework within the system 100.
[0026]       More specifically, the data card interaction tracking tool 150 may include control
circuitry 151, data card tracking circuitry 152, and data card utilization circuitry 153. Each of
the control circuitry 151, the data card tracking circuitry 152, and the data card utilization
circuitry 153 may be a representation of software, hardware, and/or middleware configured
to implement respective features of the data card interaction tracking tool 150.
[0027]       Control circuitry 151 may be configured to include configuration controls, e.g.,
graphical user interfaces, through which a user (e.g., an authorized user) may configure
certain features of data card interaction tracking tool 150. For example, the control circuitry
151 may allow a user to filter the types of interactions recorded into data cards (e.g., track
all user interactions with an application being tracked, track user interactions with the
application that change a state of the application, track user interactions with the application
that include search queries input by the user, track user interactions with the application that
include access to additional information obtained through a network), and/or filter the type of
information included on the data cards (e.g., select metadata, data visualizations, hyperlinks,
timestamps, priority level information, or interaction information to present on the data cards).
For example, metadata generated for inclusion on a data card may include application
information identifying the application being tracked, industry information identifying an
industry corresponding to the application being tracked, data card generation information
(e.g., date of data card generation, time of data card generation), data card deck generation
information (e.g., date of data card deck generation, time of data card deck generation),
tracked     interaction  type    information   (e.g.,  user   search    query   input    type for
written/voice/visual search queries, mapping input type, user click tracking type, application
configuration type), user tagging information, tracked interaction description information
(e.g., attribute information for a location identified based on a selection of the mapping
feature), application session identification, or identification information identifying a user
associated with the tracked interaction. The data card may also be generated to include
data visualizations of data gathered through user interactions with the tracked application,
hyperlinks related to the user interactions with the tracked application, timestamps

                                                10
corresponding to the user interactions with the tracked application, priority level information
set by the user to associate with selected user interactions with the tracked application, or
interaction information to present on the data cards.
[0028]      The data card interaction tracking tool 150 may also be configured by control
circuitry 151 to set the parameters of what defines an application session for tracking user
interactions into data cards that will be stored into a common data card deck that represents
the application session.      For example, the application session may be defined by a
predetermined time period.       The application may also be defined by the detection of a
predetermined initialization event, and the detection of a predetermined ending event, or
class of events.
[0029]      Control circuitry 151 may further be configured to include security controls for
authenticating users to access, use, and/or configure features of the data card interaction
tracking tool 150. The resulting interactions and state presented may be based on the user's
role as authenticated.     Control circuitry 151 may further be configured to include log-in
controls that control a log-in process enabling the communication device 110 to log-in and
access the data card interaction tracking tool 150 running on application server 140.
[0030]      To initiate activation of the data card interaction tracking tool 150, a user may
open a web application browser on the communication device 110 and control the web
application browser to initiate an application stored, for example, on the application server
140 to run through the web application browser. The initiation of the application by the web
application browser may also automatically initiate activation of the data card interaction
tracking tool 150. Alternatively, the user may manually control activation of the data card
interaction tracking tool 150. While the data card interaction tracking tool 150 is running, the
user's interaction with the application may be recorded into data cards.             Data cards
generated during an application session of the user interacting with the application may be
stored into a data card deck. The user's session may be defined by, for example, starting
from the initiation of the data card interaction tracking tool 150 or the initiation of the
application being tracked, and lasting until a predetermined time period has passed, a
predetermined interaction with the application is detected, or a predetermined number of
data cards has been generated to store within a data card deck that defines the session.

                                                11
[0031]      During operation of the data card interaction tracking tool 150, the data card
tracking circuitry 152 may track the user's interactions with the application. The tracked
interactions may, for example, describe an input into a search query field available on the
application, a selection of a dashboard navigation feature available on the application (e.g.,
menu option, search query option, or a control configuration option), or a selection of a
mapping feature available with the running application (e.g., a zooming feature). The data
card tracking circuitry 152 may also track information related to the application's state, where
the application's state corresponds to an operational state of the application resulting from
the user's interactions. The data card tracking circuitry 152 may generate a data card to
include the user interaction information and the application state information. One or more
data cards may be generated by the data card tracking circuitry 152 to include in a data card
deck corresponding to an application session. The data card tracking circuitry 152 may also
generate metadata to include with the generated data cards and/or data card decks. The
information stored on a data card may be presented in various forms. For example, the
information may be presented on the data cards as charts that show the state of the data
and/or application relevant to the data card at the time of data card creation, selectable
link/button/action options that allow the user to view a rolled back application state of the
application upon selection of the table link/button/action options, priority level indicator that
provides a visual indication of a priority level (e.g., in the form of highlighted colors, colored
stars, or other indicators) assigned to a particular data card as identified by the user.
[0032]      Figure 6 illustrates an exemplary graphical user interface (GUI) 600 of a data
visualization development application, where the data card tracking circuitry 152 may
simultaneously be running to track user interactions with the data visualization development
application. The GUI 600 may include a legend elements panel 610 for navigating the data
visualization development application. For example, the legend elements panel 610 may
include a search query input field for receiving the user's search query searching for a
particular data visualization, a navigation pane that includes one or more navigational options
for navigating to different features available in the data visualization development
application, and a configuration menu for controlling configuration options of the data
visualization development application. The user may interact with the legend elements panel
610 by scrolling over portions of the legend elements panel 610, selecting (e.g., clicking) a

                                               12
component of the legend elements panel 610 that may result in a state change for the data
visualization development application, or inputting information into an input field. The data
card interaction tracking tool 150 may generate a data card so that the user interactions, as
well as any state changes to the data visualization development application resulting from
the user interactions, and corresponding metadata generated for the user interactions, may
be stored into the generated data card.
[0033]      The GUI 600 may further include a chart element panel 620 that includes
interactive features for a user to develop a data visualization. For example, chart element
panel 620 includes a data visualization section 621 that displays a data visualization 622
(e.g., bar chart type data visualization). The user may interact with the data visualization
section 621 by scrolling over portions of the data visualization 622, or selecting (e.g., clicking)
a portion of the data visualization 622 to obtain information on the selected portion of the
data visualization 622.    The user interactions, as well as any state changes to the data
visualization development application resulting from the user interactions with the chart
element panel 620, and corresponding metadata generated for the user interactions, may
be stored into a generated data card.
[0034]      The GUI 600 may further include a data visualization menu 623 and a data
visualization sub-menu 624 corresponding to the data visualization menu 623. The user
may interact with the data visualization menu 623 and the data visualization sub-menu 624
by scrolling over portions of the data visualization menu 623 and the data visualization sub
menu 624, or selecting (e.g., clicking) selectable options of the data visualization menu 623
and the data visualization sub-menu 624.        For example, a user interaction identifying a
selection of the "sources" option from the data visualization menu 623, and selection of the
"BarChart.jsx" template from the data visualization sub-menu 624, may be stored into a data
card as a user interaction. The user interactions, as well as any state changes to the data
visualization development application resulting from the user interactions with the data
visualization menu 623, and corresponding metadata generated for the user interactions,
may be stored into a generated data card.
[0035]      The GUI 600 may further include a data visualization modification panel 625 for
controlling the data visualization 622, and modifying attributes of the data visualization 622.

                                               13
For example, a user interaction with the data visualization modification panel 625 may
include a recording of changes to the code within the data visualization modification panel
625.     The user interactions, as well as any state changes to the data visualization
development application resulting from the user interactions with the data visualization
modification panel 625, and corresponding metadata generated for the user interactions,
may be stored into a generated data card.
[0036]      A user interaction detected from the GUI 600 may be stored in a generated data
card. For example, user interactions with the data visualization development application, as
detected by data card tracking circuitry 152, may be stored into a first data card 631, a
second data card 632, and a third data card 633. Each of the first data card 631, the second
data card 632, and the third data card 633 may then be stored into a data card deck 630,
where the data card deck 630 represents an application session.
[0037]      Figure 7 illustrates an exemplary graphical user interface (GUI) 700 of a health
visualization lab application, where the data card tracking circuitry 152 may simultaneously
be running to track user interactions with the health visualization lab application. The GUI
700 may include a legend elements panel 710 for navigating the health visualization lab
application. For example, the legend elements panel 710 may include a search query input
field for receiving the user's search query searching for a particular hospital address on a
map, a navigation pane that includes one or more navigational options for navigating to
different features available in the health visualization lab application, and a configuration
menu for controlling configuration options of the health visualization lab application. The
user may interact with the legend elements panel 710 by scrolling over portions of the legend
elements panel 710, or selecting (e.g., clicking) a component of the legend elements panel
610 that may result in a state change for the data visualization development application, or
inputting information into an input field. The user interactions, as well as any state changes
to the health visualization lab application resulting from the user interactions, and
corresponding metadata generated for the user interactions, may be stored into a generated
data card.
[0038]      The GUI 700 may further include a map element panel 720 that includes
interactive features for a user to view information on a map layout.         For example, map

                                                  14
element panel 720 includes a map that highlights different locations for health related
businesses, hospitals, clinics, or other health related locations. One or more of the locations
identified in the map layout may be inserted as a result to the user's search query input. The
user may interact with the map element panel 720 by scrolling over portions of the map
layout that include interactive information. For example, after scrolling to different portions
of the map layout, the user may scroll over, or select (e.g., click on), the interactive portion
721 of the map layout. By interacting with the interactive portion 721 of the map layout, the
health visualization lab application may cause an information sub-screen 722 to display on
the GUI 700, where the information sub-screen 722 includes information corresponding to
the interactive portion 721.        For example, information sub-screen 722 may include
information for a health facility located at the location identified by the interactive portion 721.
The user interactions, as well as any state changes to the health visualization lab application
resulting from the user interactions from map element panel 720, and corresponding
metadata generated for the user interactions, may be stored into a generated data card.
[0039]      A user interaction detected from the GUI 700 may be stored in a generated data
card. For example, user interactions with the data visualization development application, as
detected by the data card tracking circuitry 152, may be stored into a first data card 731 (e.g.,
presented as "load Chicago area map"), a second data card 732 (e.g., presented as "add
hospitals from Provider B"), a third data card 733 (e.g., presented as "switch map to zip code
view"), a fourth data card 734 (e.g., presented as "color map according to percentile of flu
admissions"), a fifth data card 735 (e.g., presented as "drill down on service area of Hospital
54"), and a sixth data card 736 (e.g., presented as "add zip code 60084"). Each of the first
data card 731, the second data card 732, the third data card 733, the fourth data card 734,
the fifth data card 735, and the sixth data card 736 may be generated to present a description
of a respective user interaction. Each of the first data card 731, the second data card 732,
the third data card 733, the fourth data card 734, the fifth data card 735, and the sixth data
card 736 may then be stored into a data card deck 730, where the data card deck 730
represents an application session.
[0040]       Referring back to Figure 1, the data card interaction tracking tool 150 may further
include a data card utilization circuitry 153. The data card utilization circuitry may control

                                               15
utilization of previously generated data cards.      For example, the user may operate the
communication device 110 to access database 120 to retrieve a data card deck, or one or
more data cards, that are stored on the database 120. Then while running the data card
interaction tracking tool 150, the retrieved data cards may be activated. Activation of a data
card may correspond to a selection (e.g., clicking) of the data card. Activation of the data
card may cause information included in the activated data card to be presented to the user.
The presentation of the information included in the data card may take on various visual
and/or audio forms to describe the respective user interactions with the application. For
example, Figure 8 illustrates an exemplary GUI 800 of the data card interaction tracking tool
150 that includes a data card deck 830 retrieved from database 120, where data card deck
830 includes at least a first data card 831 and a second data card 834. The first data card
831 may have been generated to describe a user interaction corresponding to clicking on a
manhole on a water sewage facility's monitoring map within a sewage facility monitoring
application. Selection of the first data card 831 may be represented by the click input 832
over a surface of the first data card 831. Selection of the first data card 831 causes activation
of the first data card 831, where the activation of the first data card 831 may cause the data
card interaction tracking tool 150 to present metadata describing tracked interactions stored
in the first data card 831. The metadata may be presented in a presentation window 833
generated by the data card interaction tracking tool 150 in response to activation of the first
data card 831. For example, amongst other information, information identifying a date and
time when the first data card 831 was generated to track user interactions within the sewage
facility monitoring application (e.g., August 24, 2015 at 01:00:00) may be presented within
presentation window 833. The metadata displayed in the presentation window 833 also
includes a data visualization graph 836 and a priority level indicator 837. For example, each
of the data visualization graph 836, the priority level indicator 837, and/or other metadata
included with first data card 831 may be associated with a date and/or time of the user
interaction captured by the first data card 831. The presentation window 833 also includes
navigation legend 838 that includes a number of navigation options (e.g., site details, real
time data, water quality, navigation tools), where selection of a navigation option may cause
the presentation window 833 to display additional information corresponding to the selected
navigation option. For example, selection of one of the navigation tools (e.g., right arrow, or

                                                 16
left arrow), may cause the presentation window 833 to display additional metadata not
currently displayed within the presentation window 833.            Selection of the site details
navigation option may cause the data card interaction tracking tool 150 to initiate access to
information corresponding to the site details.        For example, selection of the site details
navigation option may cause the data card interaction tracking tool 150 to parse through the
network 130 to locate and retrieve information corresponding to the site details.            The
retrieved site details information may then be displayed within the presentation window 833.
It follows that the metadata may include certain navigation options that behave like a
hyperlink for providing instructions for retrieving information, without storing such information
to be retrieved within the metadata. For example, selection of such navigation options may
cause the data card interaction tracking tool 150 to navigate to another server within the
network 130, retrieve information from the server, and display the retrieved information within
the presentation window 833.
[0041]      The GUI 800 may also include a transmission option 835 for transmitting selected
data card deck(s), and/or selected data cards, to another communication device.
[0042]      In addition, the sewage facility monitoring application corresponding to the first
data card 831 may be initiated to run in a state identified in the first data card 831 based on
the activation of the first data card 831.      For example, a preview of the sewage facility
monitoring application running in the state identified in the first data card 831 may be
previewed in an application preview window 840.
[0043]      Each of communication device 110, database 120, application server 140, and
secondary application server 160 may include one or more components of computer system
200 illustrated in Figure 2.
[0044]      Figure 2 illustrates exemplary computer architecture for computer system 200.
Computer system 200 includes a network interface 220 that allows communication with other
computers via a network 226, where network 226 may be represented by network 130 in
Figure 1. Network 226 may be any suitable network and may support any appropriate
protocol suitable for communication to computer system 200. In an embodiment, network
226 may support wireless communications.            In another embodiment, network 226 may

                                                17
support hard-wired communications, such as a telephone line or cable.             In another
embodiment, network 226 may support the Ethernet IEEE (Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers) 802.3x specification. In another embodiment, network 226 may be
the Internet and may support IP (Internet Protocol). In another embodiment, network 226
may be a LAN or a WAN. In another embodiment, network 226 may be a hotspot service
provider network.     In another embodiment, network 226 may be an intranet.       In another
embodiment, network 226 may be a GPRS (General Packet Radio Service) network. In
another embodiment, network 226 may be any appropriate cellular data network or cell
based radio network technology. In another embodiment, network 226 may be an IEEE
802.11 wireless network.      In still another embodiment, network 226 may be any suitable
network or combination of networks. Although one network 226 is shown in Figure 2,
network 226 may be representative of any number of networks (of the same or different
types) that may be utilized.
[0045]      The computer system 200 may also include a processor 202, a main memory 204,
a static memory 206, an output device 210 (e.g., a display or speaker), an input device 212,
and a storage device 216, communicating via a bus 208.
[0046]      Processor 202 represents a central processing unit of any type of architecture,
such as a CISC (Complex Instruction Set Computing), RISC (Reduced Instruction Set
Computing), VLIW (Very Long Instruction Word), or a hybrid architecture, although any
appropriate processor may be used. Processor 202 executes instructions 224 stored on one
or more of the main memory 204, static memory 206, or storage device 215. Processor 202
may also include portions of the computer system 200 that control the operation of the entire
computer system 200. Processor 202 may also represent a controller that organizes data
and program storage in memory and transfers data and other information between the
various parts of the computer system 200.
[0047]      Processor 202 is configured to receive input data and/or user commands through
input device 212.     Input device 212 may be a keyboard, mouse or other pointing device,
trackball, scroll, button, touchpad, touch screen, keypad, microphone, speech recognition
device, video recognition device, accelerometer, gyroscope, global positioning system
(GPS) transceiver, or any other appropriate mechanism for the user to input data to computer

                                              18
system 200 and control operation of computer system 200 and/or operation of the data card
interaction tracking tool 150.     Input device 212 as illustrated in Figure 2 may be
representative of any number and type of input devices.
[0048]     Processor 202 may also communicate with other computer systems via network
226 to receive instructions 224, where processor 202 may control the storage of such
instructions 224 into any one or more of the main memory 204 (e.g., random access memory
(RAM)), static memory 206 (e.g., read only memory (ROM)), or the storage device 216.
Processor 202 may then read and execute instructions 224 from any one or more of the main
memory 204, static memory 206, or storage device 216. The instructions 224 may also be
stored onto any one or more of the main memory 204, static memory 206, or storage device
216 through other sources.       The instructions 224 may correspond to, for example,
instructions that make up the data card interaction tracking tool 150.
[0049]     Although computer system 200 is represented in Figure 2 as a single processor
202 and a single bus 208, the disclosed embodiments applies equally to computer systems
that may have multiple processors and to computer systems that may have multiple busses
with some or all performing different functions in different ways.
[0050]     Storage device 216 represents one or more mechanisms for storing data. For
example, storage device 216 may include a computer readable medium 222 such as read
only memory (ROM), RAM, non-volatile storage media, optical storage media, flash memory
devices, and/or other machine-readable media. In other embodiments, any appropriate type
of storage device may be used. Although only one storage device 216 is shown, multiple
storage devices and multiple types of storage devices may be present. Further, although
computer system 200 is drawn to contain the storage device 216, it may be distributed across
other computer systems that are in communication with computer system 200, such as a
server in communication with computer system 200. For example, when computer system
200 is representative of communication device 110, storage device 216 may be distributed
across to application server 140 when communication device 110 is in communication with
application server 140 during operation of the data card interaction tracking tool 150.

                                                19
[0051]       Storage device 216 may include a controller (not shown) and a computer readable
medium 222 having instructions 224 capable of being executed by processor 202 to carry
out features of the data card interaction tracking tool 150. In another embodiment, some or
all of the functions are carried out via hardware in lieu of a processor-based system. In one
embodiment, the controller included in storage device 216 is a web application browser, but
in other embodiments the controller may be a database system, a file system, an electronic
mail system, a media manager, an image manager, or may include any other functions
capable of accessing data items. Storage device 216 may also contain additional software
and data (not shown), for implementing described features.
[0052]       Output device 210 is configured to present information to the user. For example,
output device 210 may be a display such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), a gas or plasma
based flat-panel display, or a traditional cathode-ray tube (CRT) display or other well-known
type of display in the art of computer hardware. Accordingly in some embodiments, output
device 210 displays a user interface. In other embodiments, output device 210 may be a
speaker configured to output audible information to the user. In still other embodiments, any
combination of output devices may be represented by the output device 210.
[0053]       Network interface 220 provides the computer system 200 with connectivity to the
network 226 through any compatible communications protocol. Network interface 220 sends
and/or receives data from the network 226 via a wireless or wired transceiver 214.
Transceiver 214 may be a cellular frequency, radio frequency (RF), infrared (IR) or any of a
number of known wireless or wired transmission systems capable of communicating with
network 226 or other computer device having some or all of the features of computer system
200. Bus 208 may represent one or more busses, e.g., USB, PCI, ISA (Industry Standard
Architecture), X-Bus, EISA (Extended         Industry Standard Architecture), or any other
appropriate bus and/or bridge (also called a bus controller).        Network interface 220 as
illustrated in Figure 2 may be representative of a single network interface card configured to
communicate with one or more different data sources. For example, according to some
embodiments the communications interface 142 (i.e., a communications network interface)
and database interface 143 (i.e., a database network interface) may be separate network
interface card hardware components dedicated to communicating with different data

                                              20
sources. In other embodiments, communications interface 142 and database interface 143
may be representative of a single network interface card hardware component configured to
communicate with different data sources.
[0054]      Computer system 200 may be implemented using any suitable hardware and/or
software, such as a personal computer or other electronic computing device. In addition,
computer system 200 may also be a portable computer, laptop, tablet or notebook computer,
PDA, pocket computer, appliance, telephone, server computer device, or mainframe
computer.
[0055]      Figure 3 illustrates an exemplary client-server block diagram describing
components of the data card interaction tracking tool 150 operating on a server side device
(e.g., operating on application server 140), and components of the data card interaction
tracking tool 150 operating on a client side device (e.g., operating on communication device
110).
[0056]      On the server side operations, application components of the data card interaction
tracking tool 150 may be running on, for example, at least portions of the application server
140, and the database 120, and/or secondary application server 160.           The application
components may include a database management system (DBMS) 301, an application
program interface (API) data controller 302, and a server side routing component 303.
DBMS 301 may be implemented by memory components of the application server 140, the
database 120, and/or the secondary application server 160 during operation of the data card
interaction tracking tool 150. API data controller 302 may be implemented by processor
and/or controller components of application server 140. Server side routing component 303
may be implemented by network interface components and/or router components of
application server 140.
[0057]      On the client side operations, client side application logic components and
visualization user interface components may be running on, for example, at least portions of
communication device 110, the database 120, and/or application server 140. The client side
application logic components may include a client side router 304, a controller 305, data
filters 306, and an event handling component 307. The GUIs for the data card interaction

                                                21
tracking tool 150 described herein may include an exemplary dashboard layout styling 308.
Dashboard layout styling 308 for the data card interaction tracking tool 150 is illustrated by
at least portions of the exemplary GUI 600 illustrated in Figure 6, at least portions of the
exemplary GUI 700 illustrated in Figure 7, and at least portions of the exemplary GUI 800
illustrated in Figure 8.
[0058]       Figure 4 illustrates a flow diagram 400 of logic that the data card interaction
tracking tool 150 may implement to track user interactions with an application and identify
corresponding application states of the application resulting from the tracked user
interactions.    References are made to components illustrated in Figure 1 during the
description of the flow diagram 400 for exemplary purposes.
[0059]       The data card interaction tracking tool 150 may detect an activation state for
activating tracking features of the data card interaction tracking tool 150 (401). The activation
state may be a detection of an application for tracking being initiated, a manual selection for
activating the data card interaction tracking tool 150, or some other predetermined activation
state that causes the data card interaction tracking tool 150 to activate. The activation state
may be detected by the control circuitry 151 of the data card interaction tracking tool 150.
[0060]       Based on the detection of the activation state, the data card interaction tracking
tool 150 may initiate user interaction tracking for tracking a corresponding application (402).
The interaction tracking may be implemented by the data card tracking circuitry 152 of the
data card interaction tracking tool 150.
[0061]       For each identifiable user interaction with the application, the data card tracking
circuitry 152 may track the identifiable user interaction into a data card (403). The data card
tracking circuitry 152 may continue to store tracked user interactions into data cards during
an interaction session of the application.
[0062]       For each data card generated by the data card tracking circuitry 152, the data
card tracking circuitry 152 may further create metadata related to the information stored in
the data card, and store the created metadata into the corresponding data card (404).

                                                  22
[0063]      The data card tracking circuitry 152 may generate a data card deck to represent
the interaction session for the application, and store data cards and corresponding metadata
created during the interaction session into the data card deck (405). The data card tracking
circuitry 152 may control the data card deck to be stored on database 120.
[0064]      Figure 5 illustrates a flow diagram 500 of logic that the data card interaction
tracking tool 150 may implement to activate previously generated data cards that are part of
a data card deck. References are made to components illustrated in Figure 1 during the
description of the flow diagram 500 for exemplary purposes.
[0065]      The data card interaction tracking tool 150 may detect an activation state for
activating data card utilization features of the data card interaction tracking tool 150 (501).
The activation state may be a detection of a previously tracked application being initiated, a
manual selection for activating the data card interaction tracking tool 150, or some other
predetermined activation state that causes the data card interaction tracking tool 150 to
activate. The activation state may be detected by the control circuitry 151 of the data card
interaction tracking tool 150.
[0066]      Based on the detection of the activation state, the data card interaction tracking
tool 150 may initiate data card utilization features (502). The data card utilization features
may be implemented by the data card utilization circuitry 153 of the data card interaction
tracking tool 150.
[0067]      As part of utilizing the data cards, the data card utilization circuitry 153 may control
a search for a data card deck (503). For example, the data card utilization circuitry 153 may
receive a data card deck search query, and access database 120 to search database 120
for one or more data card decks that satisfy the received data card deck search query. The
data card utilization circuitry 153 may then return one or more data card decks that satisfy
the received data card deck search query, and present it to the user within a graphical user
interface. The data card deck search query may be input into a written input field, or received
through a microphone as a voice command input.               Data card decks may be searched
according any of the information that is included in the data card deck and corresponding
data cards.

                                                 23
[0068]       As part of utilizing the data cards, the data card utilization circuitry 153 may
receive the user's data card deck selection that selects a data card deck from the one or
more data card decks presented in the graphical user interface (504).
[0069]       Based on the selected data card deck, data cards that include the selected data
card deck may be presented to the user (505). For example, the data card utilization circuitry
153 may present the selected data card deck within GUI 800 as illustrated by data card deck
830 in Figure 8.
[0070]       The data card utilization circuitry 153 may receive the user's selection of the first
data card 831 from the data card deck 830 (506).            Although the first data card 831 is
described as being selected based on a click action, other selection tools may be available.
For example, the data card utilization circuitry 153 may utilize a sliding bar tool 860 for
scrolling through the available data cards, first data card 831 and second data card 834.
[0071]       Based on the selection of the first data card 831, the data card utilization circuitry
153 may activate the selected first data card 831 (507). Selection of the first data card 831
may cause the data card utilization circuitry 153 to activate and present information included
in the first data card 831.     For example, GUI 800 shows presentation window 833 being
displayed in response to the click input 832 selection of the first data card 831.
[0072]       Selection of the first data card 831 may also cause the data card utilization
circuitry 153 to present additional actions for the selected first data card 831. For example,
additional actions window 850 may include a transmit selected data card option 851 and a
convert selected data card option 852. The transmit selected data card option 851 may
cause the data card utilization circuitry 153 to provide additional prompts for the user to input
information (e.g., email address, phone number, mailing address, IP address information)
for transmitting the selected first data card 831, or data card deck 830.          The data card
utilization circuitry 153 may then control a process for transmitting the selected first data card
831, and/or data card deck 830, to the identified address.
[0073]       The convert selected data card option 852 may cause the data card utilization
circuitry 153 to provide options to the user to convert the data card into another data structure

                                                 24
format. It follows that the data card utilization circuitry 153 may provide additional actions to
implement for a selected data card.
[0074]      Selection of the first data card 831 may also cause the data card utilization
circuitry 153 to preview the tracked application operating in an application state identified in
the selected first data card 831. The preview of the tracked application may be presented in
the application preview window 840 of GUI 800.             For example, the application preview
window 840 may display the application in an application state that includes information input
into input fields of the application. It follows, that the data card utilization circuitry 153 may
cause the tracked application to be previewed within application preview window 840, where
the tracked application will be operating in an application state identified by a selected data
card.
[0075]      Separate, or in addition to the logic described for flow diagram 500, the data card
utilization circuitry 153 may also receive user selection of the data card deck 830, and/or
individual data cards within data card deck 830, for transmission to another communication
device, where the selected data card deck 830, and/or data cards within the selected data
card deck 830, identifies a respective application and a final state of the respective
application that results from the steps recorded in the selected data card deck 830, and/or
data cards within the selected data card deck 830. The data card utilization circuitry 153
may also provide additional prompts for the user to input address information (e.g., email
address, phone number, IP address information, or other type of digital address) for
transmitting the selected data card deck 830, and/or data cards within the selected data card
deck 830. Sharing the selected data card deck 830, and/or data cards within the selected
data card deck 830, with other users allows the other users to trace the steps recorded in
the selected data card deck 830, and/or data cards within the selected data card deck 830,
to accomplish the same results while operating the respective application.               When the
communication device receiving the selected data card deck 830, and/or data cards within
the selected data card deck 830, also includes the data card interaction tracking tool, an
indicator may be presented on the receiving communication device announcing the receipt
of the selected data card deck 830, and/or data cards within the selected data card deck
830. According to some embodiments, the respective application may be caused to begin

                                               25
operation in the final state of the respective application when the respective application is
next activated on the receiving communication device following the receipt of the selected
data card deck 830, and/or data cards within the selected data card deck 830. According to
some embodiments, an option for activating the respective application in the final state of
the respective application may be presented on the receiving communication device based
on the receipt of the selected data card deck 830, and/or data cards within the selected data
card deck 830. The option for activating the respective application in the final state of the
respective application may be presented on the receiving communication device to include
one or more of the components of GUI 800 described in Figure 8. The transmission of the
selected data card deck 830, and/or data cards within the selected data card deck 830, may
be activated by selection of the transmission option 835 illustrated in GUI 800.
[0076]      The described logic relating to flow diagram 400 and flow diagram 500 may be
implemented in different combinations. For example, reference to data card decks and data
cards may be interchangeable.
[0077]      The methods, devices, processing, circuitry, and logic described above may be
implemented in many different ways and in many different combinations of hardware and
software. For example, all or parts of the implementations may be circuitry that includes an
instruction processor, such as a Central Processing Unit (CPU), microcontroller, or a
microprocessor; or as an Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC), Programmable Logic
Device (PLD), or Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA); or as circuitry that includes
discrete logic or other circuit components, including analog circuit components, digital circuit
components or both; or any combination thereof.          The circuitry may include discrete
interconnected hardware components or may be combined on a single integrated circuit die,
distributed among multiple integrated circuit dies, or implemented in a Multiple Chip Module
(MCM) of multiple integrated circuit dies in a common package, as examples.
[0078]     Accordingly, the circuitry may store or access instructions for execution, or may
implement its functionality in hardware alone. The instructions may be stored in a tangible
storage medium that is other than a transitory signal, such as a flash memory, a Random
Access Memory (RAM), a Read Only Memory (ROM), an Erasable Programmable Read
Only Memory (EPROM); or on a magnetic or optical disc, such as a Compact Disc Read

                                               26
Only Memory (CDROM), Hard Disk Drive (HDD), or other magnetic or optical disk; or in or
on another machine-readable medium. A product, such as a computer program product,
may include a storage medium and instructions stored in or on the medium, and the
instructions when executed by the circuitry in a device may cause the device to implement
any of the processing described above or illustrated in the drawings.
[0079]     The implementations may be distributed. For instance, the circuitry may include
multiple distinct system components, such as multiple processors and memories, and may
span multiple distributed processing systems.       Parameters, databases, and other data
structures may be separately stored and managed, may be incorporated into a single
memory or database, may be logically and physically organized in many different ways, and
may be implemented in many different ways. Example implementations include linked lists,
program variables, hash tables, arrays, records (e.g., database records), objects, and implicit
storage mechanisms. Instructions may form parts (e.g., subroutines or other code sections)
of a single program, may form multiple separate programs, may be distributed across
multiple memories and processors, and may be implemented in many different ways.
Example implementations include stand-alone programs, and as part of a library, such as a
shared library like a Dynamic Link Library (DLL).      The library, for example, may contain
shared data and one or more shared programs that include instructions that perform any of
the processing described above or illustrated in the drawings, when executed by the circuitry.
[0080]     Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to mean the inclusion of a stated feature or step, or group
of features or step, but not the exclusion of any other feature or step, or group of features or
steps.
[0081]     The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
as an acknowledgement, or any suggestion that, the prior art form part of the common
general knowledge.

                                                27
The claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A system, including:
        a database interface configured to communicate with a database;
        a communication interface configured to communicate with a client device;
        a processor configured to communicate with the database interface and the
communication interface, the processor further configured to:
                receive, through the communication interface, an activation request from the
        client device, the activation request requesting activation of a data card interaction
        tracking tool;
               activate the data card interaction tracking tool based on the received activation
        request;
                in response to the activated data card interaction tracking tool, track interactive
        steps taken by the client device to result in a changed state of a running application;
               generate data cards, wherein each data card includes a description of the
        interactive steps thereby identifying a tracked interaction with the running application
        and a state change of the running application resulting from the tracked interaction;
               store the data cards in a data card deck for the running application such that
        the data card deck identifies the interactive steps and associated states; and
               transmit, through the database interface, the data card deck to the database.
2.      A system according to claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to store
metadata into the data card deck, the metadata including at least one of application
information identifying the running application, industry information identifying an industry
corresponding to the running application, data card generation information, tracked
interaction type information, user tagging information, or identification information identifying
a user associated with the tracked interaction.
3.      A system according to either claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the tracked interaction
identifies at least one of an input into a search query field available with the running

                                                  28
application or a selection of a dashboard navigation feature available with the running
application.
4.      A system according to claim 3, wherein the dashboard navigation feature is at least
one of a menu option, search query option, or a control configuration option.
5.      A system according to claim 4, wherein the control configuration option is one of a
data filter or a modal popup option.
6.      A system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the tracked
interaction identifies a selection of a mapping feature available with the running application.
7.      A system according to claim 6, wherein the mapping feature is a zooming feature, and
wherein the tracked interaction identifies an address corresponding to the selection of the
mapping feature.
8.      A system according to either claim 6 or claim 7, wherein the tracked interaction
identifies an attribute for a location identified based on the selection of the mapping feature,
wherein the attribute for the location is at least one of an address corresponding to the
location, a business name corresponding to the address, a telephone number corresponding
to the location, a type of business corresponding to the location, contextual operational
metadata corresponding to the location, or metadata corresponding to the location.
9.      A system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the processor is
further configured to:
         receive, through the communication interface, a search query from the client device;
        select the data card deck from the database based on the search query;
         receive, through the communication interface, a data card selection from the client
device; and
        activate the data card based on the data card selection.

                                                29
10.     A system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the processor is
further configured to:
        receive, through the communication interface, destination information from the client
device, the destination information identifying a communication device for receiving the data
card deck;
        select the data card deck from the database; and
        control transmission of the data card deck to the communication device identified in
the destination information.
11.     A method for tracking application interactions, including:
        monitoring a data card interaction tracking tool;
        detecting an activation state for the data card interaction tracking tool based on the
monitoring;
        activating a data card interaction tracking tool based on the detected activation state;
        in response to the activated data card interaction tracking tool, tracking interactive
steps resulting in a changed state of a running application detected during an application
session;
        generating data cards, wherein each data card includes a description of the interactive
steps thereby identifying a tracked interaction with the running application and a state change
of the running application resulting from the tracked interaction;
        storing the data cards in a data card deck such that the data card deck identifies the
interactive steps and associated states; and
        transmitting, through a database interface, the data card deck to a database for
storing.
12.     A method according to claim 11, further including:
        storing metadata into the data card deck, the metadata including at least one of
application information identifying the running application, industry information identifying an
industry corresponding to the running application, or identification information identifying a
user associated with the tracked interaction.

                                               30
13.     A method according to either claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the tracked interaction
identifies at least one of an input into a search query field available with the running
application, a selection of a dashboard navigation feature available with the running
application, or a selection of a mapping feature available with the running application.
14.     A method according to claim 13, wherein the tracked interaction identifies an attribute
for a location identified based on the selection of the mapping feature.
15.     A method according to claim 14, wherein the attribute for the location is at least one
of an address corresponding to the location, a business name corresponding to the address,
a telephone number corresponding to the location, a type of business corresponding to the
location, contextual operational metadata corresponding to the location, or metadata
corresponding to the location.
16.     A method according to any one of claims 11 to 15, further including:
        receiving, through a communication interface, a search query from a client device;
        selecting the data card deck from the database based on the search query;
        receiving, through the communication interface, a data card selection from the client
device; and
        activating the data card based on the data card selection.
17.     A method according to any one of claims 11 to 16, further including:
        receiving, through a communication interface, destination information from a client
device, the destination information identifying a communication device for receiving the data
card deck;
        selecting the data card deck from the database; and
        controlling transmission of the data card deck to the communication device identified
in the destination information.
18.     A network system, including:
        a database interface configured to communicate with a database;

                                              31
     a communication interface configured to communicate with a client device;
     a processor configured to communicate with the database interface and the
communication interface, the processor further configured to:
             receive, through the communication interface, a search query from the client
     device;
             select a data card deck from the database based on the search query, the data
     card deck including data cards that each include a description of tracked interactive
     steps taken by the client device with an application thereby identifying a tracked
     interaction and a state change of the application resulting from the tracked interaction;
             receive, through the communication interface, data card selections from the
     client device;
             activate the selected data cards included in the data card deck; and
             control an application to revert to the states of the application resulting from
     the tracked interaction identified in the selected data cards.
1a.  A system, including:
     a database interface configured to communicate with a database;
     a communication interface configured to communicate with a client device;
     a processor configured to communicate with the database interface and the
communication interface, the processor further configured to:
             receive, through the communication interface, an activation request from the
     client device, the activation request requesting activation of a data card interaction
     tracking tool;
             activate the data card interaction tracking tool based on the received activation
     request;
             in response to the activated data card interaction tracking tool, track
     interactions of the client device resulting in a changed state of a running application;
             generate a data card, wherein the data card identifies a tracked interaction with
     the running application and a state of the running application resulting from the
     tracked interaction;
             store the data card into a data card deck for the running application; and

                                                32
                transmit, through the database interface, the data card deck to the database.
2a.     A method for tracking application interactions, including:
        monitoring a data card interaction tracking tool;
        detecting an activation state for the data card interaction tracking tool based on the
monitoring;
        activating a data card interaction tracking tool based on the detected activation state;
        in response to the activated data card interaction tracking tool, tracking interactions
resulting in a changed state of a running application detected during an application session;
        generating a data card, wherein the data card identifies a tracked interaction with the
running application and a state of the running application resulting from the tracked
interaction;
        storing the data card into a data card deck; and
        transmitting, through a database interface, the data card deck to a database for
storing.
3a.     A network system, including:
        a database interface configured to communicate with a database;
        a communication interface configured to communicate with a client device;
        a processor configured to communicate with the database interface and the
communication interface, the processor further configured to:
                receive, through the communication interface, a search query from the client
        device;
                select a data card deck from the database based on the search query;
                receive, through the communication interface, a data card selection from the
        client device;
                activate a data card included in the data card deck based on the data card
        selection, wherein the data card identifies a tracked interaction with an application
        and a state of the application resulting from the tracked interaction; and
                control an application to revert to a state of the application resulting from the
        tracked interaction identified in the data card.

                                                          1/8
<removed-date>
                                                          
                 
              $SSOLFDWLRQ6HUYHU                                         
                                                                              0HPRU\
                                                                       
                                                                        'DWD&DUG,QWHUDFWLRQ
                                                                           7UDFNLQJ7RRO
                                                                                          
                                                                          &RQWURO&LUFXLWU\
<removed-apn>
                                     
                                                                          
                                                                        'DWD&DUG7UDFNLQJ
                       3URFHVVRU
                                                                             &LUFXLWU\
                                                                                      
                                                                              'DWD&DUG
                                                                         8WLOL]DWLRQ&LUFXLWU\
                                                                                
                   &RPPXQLFDWLRQ
                                                                                  'DWDEDVH,QWHUIDFH
                     ,QWHUIDFH
                                                                                                 
                                                                                 'DWD&DUG
                                                                                     'HFNV
                         
                               
                                                   &RPPXQLFDWLRQ          
                                                     ,QWHUIDFH                   
                                                                                 0HPRU\
                                                 
                               3URFHVVRU                                          :HE
                                                                               DSSOLFDWLRQ
                                                                                EURZVHU
                                                       
                                                       ,QSXW2XWSXW
                                                         'HYLFH V
                                                       )LJXUH

<removed-date>
                                                2/8
                    
                                          
               
                                                                       
<removed-apn>
                            3URFHVVRU
                                                      2XWSXWGHYLFH
              
                                                                        
                       0DLQ0HPRU\
                                                       ,QSXW'HYLFH
                           ,QVWUXFWLRQV
              
                                                                       
                       6WDWLF0HPRU\                                 
                                                      6WRUDJH'HYLFH
                           ,QVWUXFWLRQV
                                                      &RPSXWHU
                                                                         
                                                         5HDGDEOH
                                                          0HGLXP
                             1HWZRUN
               
                             ,QWHUIDFH                 ,QVWUXFWLRQV
                           7UDQVFHLYHU
               
                                1(7:25.
                                          )LJXUH

                                               3/8
<removed-date>
                                               
                                                                          
                                     'DWDEDVH0DQDJHPHQW6\VWHP '%06
                                                                         
<removed-apn>
                $SSOLFDWLRQ
                                $SSOLFDWLRQ3URJUDP,QWHUIDFH $3, 'DWD&RQWUROOHU
                0LGGOHZDUH
                                                                         
                                               6HUYHU6LGH5RXWHU
                                                                                      6HUYHU
                                                                                      &OLHQW
                                                                         
                                                &OLHQW6LGH5RXWHU
                                                                         
                                                     &RQWUROOHU
                &OLHQW6LGH
                $SSOLFDWLRQ                                             
                   /RJLF
                                                     'DWD)LOWHUV
                                                                         
                                                 (YHQW+DQGOLQJ
                                                                         
              *UDSKLFDO8VHU
                                            'DVKERDUG/D\RXW6W\OLQJ
                ,QWHUIDFH
                                            )LJXUH

                                                               4/8
<removed-date>
                                                                      
                                                                            
              'HWHFWDFWLYDWLRQVWDWH                                        &RQWURO&LUFXLWU\
                                                                
                                                                            
<removed-apn>
                                                                            'DWD&DUG7UDFNLQJ
              ,QLWLDWHLQWHUDFWLRQWUDFNLQJ
                                                                              &LUFXLWU\
              7UDFNLQWHUDFWLRQVLQWRGDWDFDUG V GXULQJ                                   
              LQWHUDFWLRQVHVVLRQ                               
                                                                                'DWD&DUG
              &UHDWHPHWDGDWDFRUUHVSRQGLQJWRGDWDFDUG V                      'HFNV
              FUHDWHGGXULQJLQWHUDFWLRQVHVVLRQ                
              6WRUHGDWDFDUG V DQGPHWDGDWDIURPWKH
              LQWHUDFWLRQVHVVLRQLQWRDGDWDFDUGGHFN        
                                                           )LJXUH

                                                              5/8
<removed-date>
                                                                    
                                                                          
              'HWHFWDFWLYDWLRQVWDWH                                      &RQWURO&LUFXLWU\
                                                              
                                                                          
<removed-apn>
                                                                          'DWD&DUG8WLOL]LQJ
              ,QLWLDWHGDWDFDUGVXWLOL]DWLRQIHDWXUH
                                                                            &LUFXLWU\
                                                                                           
              6HDUFKIRUGDWDFDUGGHFN
                                                              
                                                                              'DWD&DUG
                                                                               'HFNV
              6HOHFWGDWDFDUGGHFN
                                                              
              3UHVHQWGDWDFDUG V IURPVHOHFWHGGDWDFDUG
              GHFN                                            
              6HOHFWGDWDFDUGIURPGDWDFDUGGHFN
                                                              
              $FWLYDWHVHOHFWHGGDWDFDUG
                                                              
                                                         )LJXUH

                                                               6/8
<removed-date>
                                                                
                                                                                                'DWD&DUG'HFN
                                         /HJHQG(OHPHQW V                                            
                                               
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                
                                            &KDUW(OHPHQW
                                                 
                                                                                               )LUVW'DWD
                                                                                                     &DUG
                                                              
                                                                                                                
                                                                                                 6HFRQG'DWD
                                                                                                    &DUG
                                                                                                             
                   (OHPHQWV&RQVROH6RXUFHV 1HWZRUN7LPHOLQH3URILOHV
                                         5HVRXUFHV$XGLWV                              
                     %DU&KDUWMV[ %XEEOH&KDUWMV[3LH&KDUWMV[%ORFNMV[             7KLUG'DWD
                                     7DEOH%ORFNMV[$SSMV[                                      &DUG
              %DU&KDUW                                                                   
                     FRORUV ^FRORUV`
                     GLPHQVLRQV ^>
                       ^GLP'DWDOLEUDU\GLP%ORFN[9DOXHGLP/DEHO/LEUDU\`
                       ^GLP'DWDFRXQWGLP%ORFN\9DOXHGLP/DEHO1XPEHU`
                     @`
                     GDWD ^>
                       ^OLEUDU\5HDFWFRXQWQ`
                       ^OLEUDU\5HOD\FRXQWQ`
                       ^OLEUDU\*UDSK4/FRXQWQ`
                       ^OLEUDU\5DGLXPFRXQWQ`
                       ^OLEUDU\%DEHOFRXQWQ`
                     @`
                     ZLGWK ^`
                     KHLJKW ^`!
                                                        )LJXUH

                                                            7/8
<removed-date>
                                                            
                                                                  'DWD&DUG'HFN
                                         /HJHQG(OHPHQW V              
                                               
<removed-apn>
                                                                                   
                                           0DS(OHPHQW
                                               
                                                                   ORDG&KLFDJR
                                                                     DUHDPDS
              +HDOWK9LVXDOL]DWLRQ/DE                                           
                                                                   DGGKRVSLWDOV
                                                                   IURP3URYLGHU
                                                                         %
                                                                                
                                           
                                                                   VZLWFKPDSWR
                                                                   ]LSFRGHYLHZ
                                                                                   
                                                                     FRORUPDS
                                                                    DFFRUGLQJWR
                                                                    SHUFHQWLOHRI
                                                                  IOXDGPLVVLRQV
                                                                                 
                                                                GULOOGRZQRQ
                                                                  VHUYLFHDUHDRI
                                                                    +RVSLWDO
                                                                                
                                                                   DGG]LSFRGH
                                                                      
                                                     )LJXUH

                                                                  8/8
<removed-date>
                                                                  
                                                                            
                    0RQLWRUHG0DQKROH 3$&(6)5<
                                                                                  'DWD&DUG'HFN
                                          5($/7,0(           :$7(5                  
                 6,7('(7$,/6
                                            '$7$              48$/,7<!
                    /HYHO IW
<removed-apn>
                    )ORZ5DWH PJG                        
                    7HPSHUDWXUH )&              DW                          
                                                                                      
                    9HORFLW\ IWVHF
                                                                                  )LUVW'DWD
                                                                                        &DUG
                    /HYHO IW                    3ULRULW\/HYHO +LJK
                                                                                                   
                                                        
                                                                                    6HFRQG'DWD
                                                                                       &DUG
                                                                                       
                                                                                      7UDQVPLW
                                                                                      VHOHFWLRQ
                                                                                  $GGLWLRQDO$FWLRQV
                                       $SSOLFDWLRQ3UHYLHZ
                                                                                         
                                               
                                                                                                  
                                                                                     7UDQVPLW
                                                                                   6HOHFWHG'DWD
                                                                                       &DUG
                                                                                       
                                                                                      &RQYHUW
                                                                                   6HOHFWHG'DWD
                                                                                       &DUG
                                                    
                                                             )LJXUH

