1002187617
                                         ABSTRACT
Certain embodiments of the present invention can detect and evaluate new messages at a
coordinating device to determine whether to forward the message to a wearable device. In
this manner, a server can reduce a number of devices that it is to communicate a message to,
while still allowing the message to be availed to multiple devices. Further, certain
embodiments relate to coordinating alerts (e.g., audio or haptic alerts) to reduce redundant
alerts of a single message amongst spatially clustered devices.

1002187617
               COORDINATION OF MESSAGE ALERT PRESENTATIONS
                     ACROSS DEVICES BASED ON DEVICE MODES
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]     This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application
Number 62/004,346, filed on May 29, 2014, U.S. Non-Provisional Application Number
 14/475,446, filed on September 2, 2014, and U.S. Non-Provisional Application Number
 14/475,471, filed on September 2, 2014. Each of these applications is incorporated by
reference in its entirety for all purposes. Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety,
is PCT/US2015/030591 (published as WO 2015/183558), filed on 13 May 2015.
                                      FIELD OF INVENTION
[0002]     The present disclosure relates generally to device forwarding of app messages and
inter-device communications to coordinate presentations of (e.g., visual) notification
presentations and/or (e.g., audio or haptic) alerts for messages.
                                         BACKGROUND
[0003]     Electronic devices are frequently used to notify a user of a variety of events. In
some instances, a sound alert initially notifies a user of an event, and additional detail can be
viewed using an application operating on the device. For example, a computer can emit a
tone when a new email for a user email account has been received, or a phone can play an
audio signal when a new text message is received. However, nowadays, a single user can use
multiple devices. Which device is most convenient to the user for alerts and/or notification
presentations can depend on the day, time and/or other factors.
[0004]     In some instances, each device of a user can be configured to receive a single event.
For example, multiple devices can be configured to access email from a same account. This
can provide some conveniences, as it may be more likely that a user is near at least one
device to be notified of a new email. However, it can also result in multiple, redundant alerts
of the email. For example, FIG. 1 illustrates a situation in which a user 105 is near three
electronic devices: a phone 1 10a, a tablet computer 1 10b and a laptop computer 1 10c. When
a new email is received via an account of user 105, each of devices 1 Oa-1 10c sound can
sound an alert. Given the location of user 105 and of devices 1 Oa-1 10c, the alerts can be
redundant with each other and potentially annoying to user 105. Further, such configurations
can increase a load on a server associated with the event. Thus, it would be desirable to
                                                  1

1002187617
coordinate between devices such that messages are available on multiple devices but in a
manner that reduces server load and redundant alerts.
[0004a] Reference to any prior art in the specification is not an acknowledgment or
suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common general knowledge in any jurisdiction
or that this prior art could reasonably be expected to be understood, regarded as relevant,
and/or combined with other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
                                           SUMMARY
 [0004b] According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a method, comprising:
detecting, at a coordinating device, a message that is designated for delivery to a mobile
device; and in response to detecting the message at the coordinating device: in accordance
with a determination that the coordinating device is in an active mode, presenting an alert
corresponding to the message at the coordinating device; in accordance with a determination
that the coordinating device is not in the active mode and the mobile device will not present
an alert corresponding to the message, presenting an alert corresponding to the message at the
coordinating device; and in accordance with a determination that the coordinating device is
not in the active mode and the mobile device will present an alert corresponding to the
message, forgoing presentation of an alert corresponding to the message at the coordinating
device.
[0004c] According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a coordinating
device, comprising: an output component that outputs stimuli; a connection component that
transmits communications to other devices; one or more processors coupled to the output
component and the connection component; and a computer-readable storage medium
containing instructions, that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or
more processors to perform actions including: detecting a message that is designated for
delivery to a mobile device; and in response to detecting the message at the coordinating
device: in accordance with a determination that the coordinating device is in an active mode,
presenting an alert corresponding to the message at the coordinating device; in accordance
with a determination that the coordinating device is not in the active mode and the mobile
device will not present an alert corresponding to the message, presenting an alert
corresponding to the message at the coordinating device; and in accordance with a
determination that the coordinating device is not in the active mode and the mobile device
                                                 2

1002187617
will present an alert corresponding to the message, forgoing presentation of an alert
corresponding to the message at the coordinating device.
[0004d] According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a system, comprising:
one or more data processors; and a non-transitory computer readable storage medium
containing instructions which when executed on the one or more data processors, cause the
one or more data processors to perform actions including: detecting a message that is
designated for delivery to a mobile device; and in response to detecting the message at a
coordinating device: in accordance with a determination that the coordinating device is in an
active mode, presenting an alert corresponding to the message at the coordinating device; in
accordance with a determination that the coordinating device is not in the active mode and
the mobile device will not present an alert corresponding to the message, presenting an alert
corresponding to the message at the coordinating device; and in accordance with a
determination that the coordinating device is not in the active mode and the mobile device
will present an alert corresponding to the message, forgoing presentation of an alert
corresponding to the message at the coordinating device.
[0004e]    According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided a non-transitory
machine-readable storage medium comprising a tangible computer program product,
including instructions configured to cause one or more data processors to perform actions
including: detecting a message that is designated for delivery to a mobile device; and in
response to detecting the message at a coordinating device: in accordance with a
determination that the coordinating device is in an active mode, presenting an alert
corresponding to the message at the coordinating device; in accordance with a determination
that the coordinating device is not in the active mode and the mobile device will not present
an alert corresponding to the message, presenting an alert corresponding to the message at the
coordinating device; and in accordance with a determination that the coordinating device is
not in the active mode and the mobile device will present an alert corresponding to the
message, forgoing presentation of an alert corresponding to the message at the coordinating
device.
[0005]     In some embodiments, a computer-implemented method can be provided that can
include detecting, at a coordinating device, a message and determining a location
characteristic of a mobile device. The method can also include determining, based on the
location characteristic, that a proximate condition is satisfied and determining whether the
                                                2a

1002187617
coordinating device is in an active mode. When it is determined that the coordinating device
is in the active mode, a coordinating-device alert can be presented at the coordinating device.
When it is determined that the coordinating device is not in the active mode, a signal can be
transmitted to the mobile device that corresponds to an invitation to present a mobile-device
alert corresponding to the message.
[0006]     Determining whether the coordinating device is in the active mode can include
determining whether a display screen of the coordinating device is on or unlocked. Each of
the mobile-device alert and the coordinating-device alert can include an audio or haptic alert.
The mode can be identified at a first time, it can be determined that the alert-coordination
criterion is satisfied. The method can further include one or more actions. The one or more
actions can include adding a first queue item corresponding to the message to an alert queue;
detecting a second message; identifying, at a second time, a second mode of the coordinating
device; determining, based on the second mode, that the coordinating device is to present the
coordinating-device alert at the coordinating device for the second message irrespective of a
current mode of the mobile device; in response to determining that the coordinating device is
to present the coordinating-device alert at the coordinating device for the second message
irrespective of the current mode of the mobile device, presenting the coordinating-device
alert at the coordinating device for each of the message and the second message; and
removing the first queue item from the alert queue.
[0007]     Determining the location characteristic can include determining whether the mobile
device and the coordinating device are connected to a same network, and the proximate
condition can be satisfied when the mobile device and the coordinating device are connected
to the same network. Determining whether the coordinating device is to handle message
forwarding for the app can include determining whether the app is identified on a blacklist. It
                                                2b

     WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   can be determined that the coordinating device is not to handle message forwarding for the
   app when it is determined that the app is identified on the blacklist.
   [0008]     The method can further include one or more additional actions. The one or more
   additional actions can include, when it is determined that the coordinating device is in the
 5 active mode: transmitting a signal to the mobile device that corresponds to an instruction to
   suppress the mobile-device alert corresponding to the message. The one or more additional
   actions can include detecting, at the coordinating device, an other message; determining that
   the proximate condition is not satisfied; and presenting the coordinating-device alert for the
   other message at the coordinating device. The one or more additional actions can include
10 detecting, at the coordinating device, an other message; identifying that the coordinating
   device is in a do-not-disturb mode indicating that the coordinating device is to suppress audio
   stimuli elicited in response to messages; and transmitting an other signal to the mobile device
   that corresponds to an instruction not to present an audio alert corresponding to the other
   message.
15 [00091     The one or more additional actions can include, when it is determined that the
   coordinating device is not in the active mode: determining that the mobile device has not
   indicated that it is handling presentation of the alert for the message; and presenting the
   coordinating-device alert at the coordinating device.
   [00101     The one or more additional actions can include when it is determined that the
20 coordinating device is in the active mode: generating a visual notification presentation for the
   message; and presenting the visual notification presentation on the coordinating device. The
   one or more additional actions can include when it is determined that the coordinating device
   is not in the active mode: subsequently identifying that the coordinating device is in the
   active mode; determining that a notification for the message is pending; generating a visual
25 notification presentation for the message; and presenting the visual notification presentation
   on the coordinating device.
   [00111     The one or more additional actions can include identifying an app associated with
   the message; determining, based on the identified app, whether the coordinating device is to
   handle message forivarding for the app; and when it is determined that the coordinating
30 device is to handle forwarding for the app: identifying an other electronic device. Each of the
   coordinating device and the other electronic device can be associated with a same account;
                                                    3

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   and transmitting, from the coordinating device, a signal to the other electronic device. The
   signal can include at least part of the message.
    [0012]    In some embodiments, a computer-implemented method can be provided that can
   include detecting, at a mobile device, a message at a first time and monitoring a
 5 communication channel to determine whether a signal corresponding to an invitation to
   present an alert corresponding to the message is received from a coordinating device within a
   tine period from the first time. When the signal is received from the coordinating device
   within the time period, it can be identified whether the mobile device is in an active mode.
   When it is identified that the mobile device is in the active mode, a mobile-device alert for
10 the message can be presented at the mobile device and a second signal can be transmitted to
   the coordinating device. The second signal can indicate that the mobile device is handling
   presentation of the alert for the message. When the signal is not received from the
   coordinating device within the time period, a mobile-device alert for the message can be
   presented.
15  [00131    Determining the location characteristic can include determining, by the mobile
   device, whether the mobile device and the coordinating device are connected to a same
   network. The proximate condition can be satisfied when the mobile device and the
   coordinating device are connected to the same network. Identifying, by the mobile device,
   whether the coordinating device is in an active mode can include deternining whether a
20 display screen of the mobile device is unlocked and whether one or more conditions are met
   to infer that the mobile device is being worn. The one or more conditions can be based on one
   or more sensor readings. Each of the mobile-device alert and the coordinating-device alert
   can include an audio or haptic alert.
    [0014]    The method can include one or more additional actions. The one or more additional
25 actions can include, when it is identified that the mobile device is not in the active mode:
   suppressing a presentation of the mobile-device alert for the message; and transmitting a
   declination signal to the coordinating device indicating that the mobile device is not handling
   presentation of the alert for the message.
    [0015]    The one or more additional actions can include identifying that the mobile device is
30 in a do-not-disturb mode; transmitting the second signal to the coordinating device. The
   second signal can indicate that the mobile device is not handling presentation of the alert for
                                                    4

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   the message; and suppressing a presentation of the mobile-device alert for the message at the
   mobile device.
    [0016]   The one or more additional actions can include determining, by the mobile device, a
   location characteristic of the coordinating device; using, by the mobile device, the location
 5 characteristic to determine that a proximate condition is satisfied; and the mobile device, in
   response to determining that the proximate condition is satisfied, at least temporarily
   refraining from presenting, at the mobile device, the mobile-device alert for the message.
    [0017]   The one or more additional actions can include when it is identified that the mobile
   device is in the active mode: generating a visual notification presentation for the message;
10 and presenting the visual notification presentation on the mobile device. The one or more
   additional actions can include, when it is identified that the mobile device is not in the active
   mode: identifying, at a second time, that the mobile device is in the active mode; determining
   that a notification for the message is pending; generating a visual notification presentation for
   the message; and presenting the visual notification presentation on the mobile device.
15  [00181   In some embodiments, a coordinating device can be provided. The coordinating
   device can include an output component configured to output stimuli and a connection
   component configured to transmit communications to other devices. The coordinating device
   can also include one or more processors coupled to the output component and the connection
   component and a computer-readable storage medium containing instructions, that, when
20 executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform actions.
   The actions can include part or all of one or more methods disclosed herein.
    [00191   The one or more additional actions can include, when it is determined that the
   coordinating device is not in the active mode: determining that the mobile device has not
   indicated that it is handling presentation of the alert for the message; and presenting the
25 coordinating-device alert at the coordinating device. Determining whether the coordinating
   device is in the active mode can include determining whether a display screen of the
   coordinating device is on or unlocked. Each of the mobile-device alert and the coordinating
   device alert can include an audio or haptic alert. The coordinating device can include a
   phone. The message can correspond to a message conveying detection of information from a
30 remote source, a message from another user, or a message generated locally at the
   coordinating device.

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
    [00201    The actions can further include one or more additional actions. The one or more
   additional actions can include detecting an other message; determining that the proximate
   condition is not satisfied; and presenting the coordinating-device alert for the other message
   at the coordinating device via the output component. The one or more additional actions can
 5 include detecting an other message; identifying that the coordinating device is in a do-not
   disturb mode indicating that the coordinating device is to suppress audio stimuli elicited in
   response to messages; and transmitting an other signal, via the connection component., to the
   mobile device that corresponds to an instruction not to present an audio alert corresponding to
   the other message.
10  [00211    The mode can be identified at a first time, it can be determined that the alert
   coordination criterion is satisfied, and the actions further include: adding a first queue item to
   an alert queue, (the first queue item can correspond to the message); detecting a second
   message; identifying, at a second time, a second mode of the coordinating device;
   determining, based on the second mode, that the coordinating device is to present a.
15 coordinating-device alert at the coordinating device for the second message irrespective of a
   current mode of the mobile device; in response to determining that the coordinating device is
   to present the coordinating-device alert at the coordinating device for the second message
   irrespective of the current mode of the mobile device. presenting the coordinating-device
   alert at the coordinating device for each of the message and the second message; and
20 removing the first queue item from the alert queue.
    [0022]    In sone enbodiments, a mobile device can be provided that can include an output
   component configured to output stimuli and a connection component configured to transmit
   communications over one or more communication channels to other devices. The mobile
   device can also include one or more processors coupled to the output component and the
25 connection component and a computer-readable storage medium containing instructions, that,
   when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform
   actions. The actions can include part or all of one or more methods disclosed herein.
    [0023]    The actions can further include determining a location characteristic of a
   coordinating device; using the location characteristic to determine that a criterion is satisfied;
30 and in response to determining that the location characteristic is satisfied, at least temporarily
   refraining from presenting the mobile-device alert for the message. Each of the mobile-device
   alert and the coordinating-device alert can include an audio or haptic alert.
                                                     6

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
    [00241    In some embodiments, a coordinating device system can be provided. The
   coordinating device system can include a detection module for detecting a message and a
   device detector module for determining a location characteristic of a mobile device and
   determining, based on the location characteristic, that a proximate condition is satisfied. The
 5 coordinating device system can include a mode detection module for determining whether the
   coordinating device system is in an active mode and an output module for, when it is
   determined that the coordinating device is in the active mode, presenting a coordinating
   device alert at the coordinating device system. The coordinating device system can include an
   alert coordination module for, when it is determined that the coordinating device is not in the
10 active mode, transmitting a signal to the mobile device that corresponds to an invitation to
   present a mobile-device alert corresponding to the message.
    100251    The alert coordination module can further be for, when it is determined that the
   coordinating device is in the active mode, transmitting a signal to the mobile device that
   corresponds to an instruction to suppress the mobile-device alert corresponding to the
15 message.
    [00261    The detection module can further be for detecting an other message. The device
   detector module can further be for determining that the proximate condition is not satisfied.
   The output module can further be for presenting the coordinating-device alert for the other
   message at the coordinating device.
20  [00271    The alert coordination module can further be for, when it is determined that the
   coordinating device is not in the active mode, determining that the mobile device has not
   indicated that it is handling presentation of the alert for the message. The output module can
   further be for presenting the coordinating-device alert at the coordinating device in response
   to the determining that the mobile device has not indicated that it is handling presentation of
25 the alert for the message.
    [00281    In some embodiments, a mobile device system can be provided. The mobile device
   system can include a detection module for detecting a message at a first time and an alert
   coordination module for determining whether a signal corresponding to an invitation to
   present an alert corresponding to the message is received from a coordinating device within a
30 time period from the first time. The mobile device system can also include a mode detection
   module for identifying, when the signal corresponding to the invitation to present the alert
   corresponding to the message is received from the coordinating device within the time period

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   from the first time, whether the mobile device system is in an active mode. The mobile device
   system can further include an output module for presenting an alert for the message when the
   signal is received from the coordinating device within the time period and the mobile device
   system is in the active mode or the signal is not received from the coordinating device within
 5 the time period. The alert coordination module can further be for transmitting a second signal
   to the coordinating device when the signal is received from the coordinating device within the
   time period and when the mobile electronic is in the active mode. The second signal can
   indicate that the mobile device system is handling presentation of the alert for the message.
    [00291    The output modules can further be for suppressing a presentation of a mobile-device
10 alert for the message when it is identified that the mobile device is not in the active mode.
   The alert coordination module can further be for transmitting a declination signal to the
   coordinating device when it is identified that the mobile device is not in the active mode. The
   declination signal can indicate that the mobile device system is not handling presentation of
   the alert for the message.
15  [00301    The mode detection module can further be for determining whether the mobile
   device is in a do-not-disturb mode. The alert coordination module can further be for
   transmitting the second signal to the coordinating device when it is determined that the
   mobile device is in the do-not-disturb mode. The second signal indicates that the mobile
   device is handling presentation of the alert for the message. The output module can further be
20 for suppressing a presentation of a mobile-device alert for the message at the mobile device
   when it is determined that the mobile device is in the do-not-disturb mode.
    [00311    In some embodiments, a system can be provided that includes a coordinating device
   system and a mobile device system disclosed herein. In some embodiments, a system can be
   provided that includes a coordinating device and a mobile device disclosed herein.
25  [00321    In some embodiments, a computer-implemented method can be provided. The
   method can include detecting, at a coordinating device, a message and identifying an app
   associated with the message. The method can further include determining whether the app
   can be identified on a blacklist and, when it is determined that the app is not identified on the
   blacklist: a mobile device can be identified (where each of the coordinating device and the
30 other electronic device can be associated with a same account) and it can be determined
   whether a subscribing app is subscribed to process the message. The subscribing app can
   include the app associated with the message or another app. When it is determined that a
                                                    8

     WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   subscribing app is subscribed to process the message and when it is determined that the app is
   not identified on the blacklist, the subscribing app can be enabled to process the message, the
   processed message can be accessed; and a signal can be transmitted from the coordinating
   device that includes the processed message to the mobile device. When it is determined that a
 5 subscribing app is not subscribed to process the message, a signal can be transmitted from the
   coordinating device to the mobile device. The signal can include at least part of the message.
   When it is determined that the app is identified on the blacklist, the coordinating device can
   refrain from foriarding the message or processed version thereof to the other electronic
   device. A location characteristic of the mobile device can be determined. Based on the
10 location characteristic, it can be determined that a proximate condition is satisfied. The
   coordinating device can detennine whether the coordinating device is in an active mode.
   When it is determined that the coordinating device is in the active mode, a coordinating
   device alert can be presented at the coordinating device. When it is determined that the
   coordinating device is not in the active mode, a signal can be transmitted to the mobile
15 device. The signal can correspond to an invitation to present a mobile-device alert
   corresponding to the message.
    100331    In some embodiments, a computer-implemented method can be provided. The
   method can include detecting, at a coordinating device, a message, and identifying an app
   associated with the message. The method can also include determining, based on the
20 identified app, whether the coordinating device is to handle message forwarding for the app;
   and when it is determined that the coordinating device is to handle message forwarding for
   the app: identifying another electronic device. Each of the coordinating device and the other
   electronic device can be associated with a same account. The method can further include
   transmitting, from the coordinating device, a signal to the other electronic device. The signal
25 can include at least part of the message. In some instances, only one of the coordinating
   device and the other device presents an audio or haptic alert for the message.
    100341    Determining whether the coordinating device is to handle message forwarding for
   the app can include determining whether the app is identified on a blacklist. It can be
   determined that the coordinating device is not to handle message forwarding for the app when
30 it is determined that the app is identified on the blacklist. An operating system for the
   coordinating device can include the blacklist. The blacklist can be static such that which apps
   are identified on the blacklist does not change. Determining whether the coordinating device
   is to handle message forwarding for the app can include determining whether the app is
                                                    9

     WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   associated with an electronic subscriber for handling message distribution. It can be
   detennined that the coordinating device is not to handle message forwarding for the app when
   the app has a subscriber.
    100351    Determining whether the coordinating device is to handle message forwarding for
 5 the app can include perfonning a look-up technique using an identifier of the app. The
   coordinating device can present the audio or haptic alert for the message when it is
   determined that the coordinating device is in an active mode or when neither the coordinating
   device nor the other device is determined to be in the active mode. Determining whether the
   coordinating device is in the active mode can include determining whether a screen of the
10 coordinating device is on or unlocked.
    [0036]    The method can be performed by a daemon executing on the coordinating device.
   Detecting the message can include receiving a first signal that can include the message from a
   server. The signal transmitted to the other electronic device can lack at least some of the data
   in the first signal. The other electronic device can be a wearable electronic device. When it is
15 determined that the coordinating device is to handle message forwarding for the app, a
   plurality of other electronic devices can be identified. Each of the other electronic device and
   the coordinating device can be associated with the same account. The plurality of other
   electronic devices can include the other electronic device. Further, when it is determined that
   the coordinating device is to handle message forwarding for the app, a signal can be
20 transmitted from the coordinating device to each of the other electronic devices. The signal
   can include at least part of the message.
    [0037]    In some embodiments, a computer-implemented method can be provided that
   includes receiving, at a mobile device, a first message that was forwarded to the mobile
   device by a coordinating device. The message can be associated with a first app for which the
25 coordinating device is to handle message forwarding. The method can also include
   determining that another device is to handle alert presentation for the first message and, in
   response to determining that another device is to handle alert presentation for the message,
   suppressing, at the mobile device, a presentation of a non-visual alert for the first message.
   The method can further include receiving, at the mobile device, a second message from a
30 source. In some instances, the source is not the coordinating device. The message can be
   associated with a second app for which the coordinating device is not to handle message
                                                    10

      WO 2015/183558                                                         PCT/US2015/030591
   forwarding. The method can further include presenting a non-visual alert for the second
   message.
    [0038]    Suppressing the presentation of the non-visual alert can include not presenting the
   non-visual alert for the first message. Determining that the other device is to handle alert
 5 presentation for the first message can include determining that an alert-presentation invitation
   was not received for the first message within a defined time period. The source can be a
   remote server. The mobile device and the coordinating device can be connected via a short
   range connection.
    100391   In some embodiments, a coordinating device is provided. The device can include an
10 output component configured to output stimuli and a connection component configured to
   transmit communications over one or more communication channels to other devices. The
   device can also include one or more processors coupled to the output component and the
   connection component and a computer-readable storage medium containing instructions, that,
   when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a
15 method disclosed herein.
    [00401    In some embodiments, a mobile device is provided. The device can include an
   output component configured to output stimuli and a connection component configured to
   receive communications over one or more communication channels from other devices. The
   device can also include one or more processors coupled to the output component and the
20 connection component and a computer-readable storage medium containing instructions, that,
   when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform
   actions including a method disclosed herein.
    100411   In some embodiments, a coordinating device system is provided. The system can
   include a detection module for detecting a message and an app identification module for
25 identifying an app associated with the message. The system can also include a notification
   distribution module for determining, based on the identified app, whether the coordinating
   device is to handle message forwarding for the app and identifying, when it is determined
   that the coordinating device is to handle message forwarding for the app, an other electronic
   devices. Each of the coordinating device system and the other electronic device can be
30 associated with a same account. When it is determined that the coordinating device is to
   handle message forwarding for the app, the notification distribution module can transmit,
   from the coordinating device system, a signal to the other electronic device. The signal can
                                                   11

      WO 2015/183558                                                         PCT/US2015/030591
   include at least part of the message. In some instances, only one of the coordinating device
   system and the other device presents an audio or haptic alert for the message.
    [0042]    In some enbodiments, a mobile device system is provided. The system can include
   a detection module for receiving a first message that was forwarded to the mobile device
 5 system by a coordinating device. The message can be associated with a first app for which
   the coordinating device is to handle message forwarding. The detection module can further be
   for receiving a second message from a source. In some instances, the source is not the
   coordinating device. The message can be associated with a second app for which the
   coordinating device is not to handle message forwarding. The system can also include an
10 alert coordination module for determining that another device is to handle alert presentation
   for the first message. The system can further include an output module for suppressing, in
   response to determining that another device is to handle alert presentation for the first
   message, a presentation of a non-visual alert for the first message and for presenting a non
   visual alert for the second message.
15  [00431    In some instances, a system is provided that includes a coordinating device system
   disclosed herein and a mobile device system disclosed herein. In some instances, a system is
   provided that includes a coordinating device disclosed herein and a mobile device disclosed
   herein.
    [00441    In some embodiments, a computer-implemented method can be provided. The
20 method can include detecting, at a coordinating device, a message. The message can be
   generated locally at the coordinating device or received at the coordinating device from a
   remote source. The method can also include identifying an app that is subscribed to process
   the message and enabling the app to process the message. The method can further include
   identifying an other electronic device. Each of the coordinating device and the other
25 electronic device can be associated with a same account. The method can still further include
   transmitting, from the coordinating device, a signal that includes the processed message to
   the other electronic device.
    100451    The signal can include an identifier of the app. The processing the message can
   include extracting an incomplete subset of data in the message. The processed message can
30 include the incomplete subset of data. The message can be generated local ly by another app
   at the coordinating device. The message can be indicative of a location of the coordinating
   device. The message can correspond to a calendar event or reminder, a text message, an
                                                   12

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   email, or a phone call. Identifying the app that is subscribed to process the message can
   include looking up information corresponding to the message in a subscriber structure stored
   at the coordinating device. The information can include an identifier of an app that generated
   the message or a source of the message.
 5  [00461   The method can include one or more additional actions. The one or more additional
   actions can include detecting, at the coordinating device, another message; determining that
   no app is subscribed to handle distribution of the message; and in response to deterrning
   that no app is subscribed to handle distribution of the message, transmitting a signal that can
   include the other message to the other electronic device. The one or more additional actions
10 can include detecting, at the coordinating device, another message; identifying another app
   that is subscribed to handle distribution of the other message; and in response to identifying
   the other app that is subscribed to handle distribution of the other message, not transmitting a
   signal corresponding to the other message to the other electronic device.
    [00471   The one or more additional actions can include detecting, at the coordinating device,
15 another message; identifying another app associated with the other message; determining that
   the other app is identified on a blacklist; and not transmitting a signal corresponding to the
   other message to the other electronic device. The one or more additional actions can include
   determining whether the coordinating device is in an active mode; when it is determined that
   the coordinating device is in the active mode, presenting a coordinating-device alert
20 corresponding to the message at the coordinating device; and when it is determined that the
   coordinating device is not in the active mode, transmitting a signal to the other electronic
   device that corresponds to an invitation to present a mobile-device alert corresponding to the
   message.
    [00481    In some embodiments, a computer-implemented method can be provided that can
25 include receiving, at an electronic de ice, a signal transmitted from a coordinating device.
   The signal can include data corresponding to an event message generated locally at the
   coordinating device representing an event or a received message received at the coordinating
   device from a remote source. Each of the coordinating device and the electronic device is
   associated with a same account. The method can further include identifying an app associated
30 with the signal and enabling the app to transform, at the electronic device, the data in the
   signal into a notification representing the event or the received message. The method can also
                                                    1I3

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   include generating a visual notification presentation for the notification and presenting the
   visual notification presentation.
    [0049]   The signal can include an identifier of the app. The transforming the data in the
   signal into the notification can include combining the data with other data stored at the
 5 electronic device. The signal can be indicative of a location of the coordinating device. The
   event can correspond to a calendar event or reminder. The received message can correspond
   to a text message, an email, or a phone call.
    [0050]   The method can include one or more additional actions. The one or more additional
   actions can include: receiving, at the electronic device, another signal transmitted by the
10 coordinating device. The other signal can include other data corresponding to another event
   message generated locally at the coordinating device representing another event or another
   received message received at the coordinating device from a same or different remote source.
   The one or more additional actions can include identifying another app associated with the
   other signal; and enabling the other app to transform, at the electronic device, the other data
15 in the other signal into another notification representing the other event or the other received
   message. The transforming of the data can use a transformation protocol. The transforming of
   the other data uses a different transformation protocol.
    100511   In some embodiments, a coordinating device can be provided that can include a
   connection component configured to transmit communications over one or more
20 communication channels to other devices and one or more processors coupled to the
   connection component. The coordinating device can also include a computer-readable storage
   medium containing instructions, that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the
   one or more processors to perform some or all actions included in one or more methods
   disclosed herein.
25  [00521    In some embodiments, an electronic device can be provided that can include an
   output component configured to output stimuli and a connection component configured to
   transmit communications over one or more cornm unication channels to other devices. The
   electronic device can also include one or more processors coupled to the output component
   and the connection component and a computer-readable storage medium containing
30 instructions, that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more
   processors to perform some or all actions included in one or more methods disclosed herein.
                                                    14

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
    [00531    In some embodiments, a coordinating device system can be provided that can
   include a detection module for detecting a message. The message can be generated locally at
   the coordinating device system or received at the coordinating device system from a remote
   source. The coordinating device system can also include a subscriber detection module for
 5 identifying an app that is subscribed to process the message and a notification distribution
   module for enabling the app to process the message; and transmitting a signal that includes
   the processed message to an other electronic device. The coordinating device system can
   further include a destination identification module for identifying the other electronic device.
   Each of the coordinating device system and the other electronic device can be associated with
10 a same account.
    [00541    The processing the message can include extracting an incomplete subset of data in
   the message. The processed message can include the incomplete subset of data. The message
   can be generated locally by another app at the coordinating device system. The message can
   be indicative of a location of the coordinating device system. The detection module can
15 further be for detecting, another message. The subscriber detector module can further be for
   determining that no app is subscribed to handle distribution of the other message. The
   notification distribution module can further be for transmitting, in response to determining
   that no app is subscribed to handle distribution of the other message, a signal that can include
   the other message to the other electronic device. Determining that the app is subscribed to
20 process the message can include looking up information corresponding to the message in a
   subscriber structure stored at the coordinating device.
    100551    In some embodiments, a system can be provided that can include a detection
   module for receiving a signal transmitted from a coordinating device. The signal can include
   data corresponding to an event message generated locally at the coordinating device
25 representing an event or a received message received at the coordinating device from a
   remote source. Each of the coordinating device and the system can be associated with a same
   account. The system can also include an app identification module for identifying an app
   associated with the signal and an other-device distribution module for enabling the app to
   transform the data in the signal into a notification representing the event or the received
30 message. The system can further include an output module for generating a visual notification
   presentation for the notification; and presenting the visual notification presentation.
   Transforming the data can include retrieving other data stored locally at the system and at
   least partly expanding the data to include the retrieved other data.
                                                    15

1002187617
[0056]     In some instances, a system is provided that includes a coordinating device system
disclosed herein and a system disclosed herein. In some instances, a system is provided that
includes a coordinating device disclosed herein and an electronic device disclosed herein.
[0057]     The following detailed description together with the accompanying drawings will
provide a better understanding of the nature and advantages of the present invention.
[0057a] As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term "comprise"
and variations of the term, such as "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not
intended to exclude further additives, components, integers or steps.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0058]     FIG. 1 shows an example of multiple nearby devices redundantly presenting an alert
on a single message.
[0059]     FIGS. 2A-2C show examples of selective presentation of an alert given various
device characteristics according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0060]     FIG. 3 shows examples of devices connected on a network to facilitate message
distribution and/or coordinated alert presentation according to an embodiment of the present
invention.
[0061]     FIG. 4A shows a block diagram of a user device according to an embodiment of the
invention.
[0062]     FIG. 4B shows a block diagram of message forwarder according to an embodiment
of the invention.
[0063]     FIG. 4C shows a block diagram of alert manager according to an embodiment of the
invention.
[0064]     FIG. 5 is a simplified block diagram of a target device according to an embodiment
of the present invention.
[0065]     FIG. 6 is a simplified block diagram of a coordinating device according to an
embodiment of the present invention.
[0066]     FIG. 7 shows an example of an electronic device according to an embodiment of the
present invention.
[0067]     FIG. 8 depicts an example schematic diagram of a wearable electronic device
according to an embodiment of the present invention.
                                                16

     WO 2015/183558                                                        PCT/US2015/030591
   [00681    FIG. 9 depicts a user wearing a sample electronic device with a second electronic
   device in his pocket. .
   [00691    FIG. 10 is a flow diagram of a process for receiving a message and performing
   appropriate responsive actions in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
 5 100701    FIG. 11 is a flow diagram of a process for determining whether to forward a
   message to another device in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
   [00711    FIG. 12 is a flow diagram of a process for enabling a subscribing app to process a
   message prior to forwarding the message to another device in accordance with an
   embodiment of the invention.
10 100721    FIG. 13 is a flow diagram of a process for transforming a processed in accordance
   wvith an embodiment of the invention.
   [00731    FIG. 14 is a flow diagram of a process for determining whether to present an alert in
   accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
   [00741    FIG. 15 is a flow diagram of a process for determining whether to present an alert in
15 accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
   [0075]    FIG. 16 is a flow diagram of a process for determining whether to present an alert in
   accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
   100761    FIG. 17 is a flow diagram of a process for responding to messages while in a do
   not-disturb mode in accordance with an enbodiment of the invention.
20 [00771    FIG. 18 is a flow diagram of a process for responding to messages while in a do
   not-disturb mode in accordance in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [00781    Certain embodiments of the present invention can facilitate distribution of event
25 messages across devices and coordinated alert presentation. This facilitation can reduce a
   number of devices that a server is to communicate a message to, while still allowing the
   message to be availed to multiple devices.
   100791    As described in further detail herein, in some embodiments, a device (e.g., a
   coordinating device) can detect a message or notification of a message. For example, the
                                                   17

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   device can receive the message from a server or other device (e.g., associated with a shared
   user account or a paired device) or can locally generate the message (e.g., upon detecting a
   time associated with a calendar event, a stock price crossing a threshold or a sensor
   measurement crossing a threshold). For example, a daemon can detect a new notification
 5 representing the new message (e.g., on a notification board) or a signal from a server
   including a new message. The message can include received content (e.g., originating from
   another user or source) and/or can represent an occurrence of an event.
    100801    Upon detecting the message, the device can identify an app associated with the
   message (e.g., an SMS app, an e-mail app, a social-network app, etc.) and can generate a
10 notification for the message (e.g., identifying an associated app, a source, a time and/or part
   or all of the message content). The device can then add the notification to a notification
   board.
    100811    A blacklist can be accessed that identifies one or more apps for which messages are
   not to be forwarded by a notification distributor on the coordinating device. Further, a
15 subscriber structure (e.g., table) can be accessed that identifies whether each of one or more
   apps has a subscriber that will handle message distribution, such that the notification
   distributor need not forward messages for those apps.
    100821    If an app for a message neither is included on the blacklist nor has a distribution
   handling subscriber, the coordinating device can generate a signal based on the message and
20 send the signal to a mobile device. In some instances, the signal sent from the coordinating
   device to the mobile device is a reduced and/or compressed communication. For example, a
   coordinating device can reduce data received from a server to exclude at least part of the data
   that does not apply to the mobile device (e.g., as determined based on a characteristic of the
   mobile device).
25  [00831    Message forwarding can allow a user to access messages (e.g., text message, voice
   mail identifications, etc.) on any of a set of devices. Some embodiments of the present
   invention further coordinate across devices such that redundant alerts (e.g. audio or haptic
   alerts) are inhibited. A given device can determine whether to present an alert (e.g., an audio
   and/or haptic alert) based, at least in part, on whether a condition is satisfied. The condition
30 can indicate circumstances in which at least one device in a set of devices (e.g., each
   associated with a same user account) are to suppress (e.g., not present) an alert. Such
   circumstances can include, for example, detecting that the set of devices are physically close
                                                     18

      WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
   to each other (e.g., by determining whether the devices can communicate via Bluetooth
   technology or Bluetooth low energy, by comparing the devices' geographic coordinates
   and/or via one device's detection of another device's feature). To specifically illustrate, the
   condition can be satisfied when the devices can be paired via Bluetooth technology or when
 5 the devices are separated by 30 feet or less. In one instance, the condition determines whether
   any of a set of devices is in a particular mode (e.g., indicating that the device is receiving user
   input and/or being worn).
    100841    When the condition is not satisfied, each device of a set of devices (e.g., associated
   with a user account) can present an alert (e.g., an audio and/or haptic alert) of a message.
10 When the condition is satisfied, one of the devices can be selected to present the alert. Which
   device is selected can depend upon evaluation of a rule, a mode of a device (e.g., whether it is
   active, asleep or in a do-not-disturb mode) and/or a device priority.
    100851    In some instances, if it is determined that the condition is satisfied, further analysis
   can be performed to determine which of the set of devices is to present the alert and/or which
15 are to suppress alerts. Presentation of an alert can then be suppressed or prevented for at least
   one of the devices. The analysis can include, for example, determining which devices are in
   particular modes (e.g., an active mode and/or being worn) and/or evaluating devices priorities
   in a priority ranking. For example, if only one of the multiple devices is in an active mode
   and/or detected as being worn, that device can be selected to present the alert. If more than
20 one device (e.g., in a set of devices that are physically near each other and associated with a
   user account) is in an active mode and/or detected as being worn, the active-mode and/or
   worn device of a high (or highest) priority in a priority ranking (and/or hierarchy based on
   device characteristics, device modes or particular devices) can be selected to present the alert.
   If no device is in an active mode and/or detected as being worn, the device of a high (or
25 highest) priority in a priority ranking (or highest along a hierarchy) can be selected to present
   the alert. Devices can directly or indirectly communicate with each other to determine
   relative locations, modes of the devices, and/or whether to present an alert.
    [00861    Additionally or alternatively, the device can determine whether to present a visual
   notification presentation for the message. The visual presentation can include, for example,
30 an identifier of a source user, a time associated with the message, an app associated with the
   message and/or some or all of the message content. Determining whether to present the
   notification presentation can include determining whether another device (e.g., of multiple
                                                    19

      WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
   devices associated with a user account shared with the device) has already presented the
   notification presentation for the message and/or whether a user action (e.g., viewing and/or
   closing the notification presentation) has already been received (e.g., at another device) for
   the message.
 5  [00871    FIGS. 2A-2C show examples of selective presentation of an alert given various
   device characteristics according to an embodiment of the present invention. Each of FIGS.
   2A-2C show various illustrative characteristics of multiple electronic devices and an
   indication as to which device(s) present an alert in response to a detection of a new message
   received at an account of a user.
10  [00881    Each device is labeled as being a mobile device or a coordinating device. In some
   instances, a coordinating device can be a device associated with a larger battery, a larger
   memory and/or a faster processor relative to a corresponding characteristic of a mobile
   device. In some instances, a coordinating device is a device that receives app messages from
   an app server, and/or a mobile device receives app messages only via one or more other
15 devices.
    [00891    In some instances, a coordinating device can be a device associated with a higher
   priority (e.g., on a priority list that ranks devices by device identifiers or device types) than a
   priority associated a mobile device. The priority list can be fixed (eg., as part of an operating
   system) or can be adjusted based on, for example, app data and/or user input. The priority list
20 can be app-specific or can apply to all apps (e.g., such that an app developer can influence a
   priority list applicable for a given app). Depending on the embodiment, a device's
   designation as being a coordinating device or a mobile device can be fixed or can change in
   time or circumstance (e.g., depending on which other devices are nearby).
    100901    It will be appreciated that (in various embodiments) neither, one or both of a
25 coordinating device and a mobile device, as referred to herein, can be an electronic device. In
   some instances, one or both of a coordinating device and a mobile device can be a wearable
   device (e.g., a necklace, headband, clip, bel, bracelet, watch, pair of glasses, arrnband, or ear
   piece). A device's designation as being a coordinating device or a mobile device (e.g.,
   receiving communications from a coordinating device) can be fixed or can vary in time or
30 based on a applicable task. For example, a particular device can be a coordinating device with
   regard to a message-forwyarding process but a mobile device that can be subordinate to
   another coordinating device with regard to an alert-presentation-selection process. As another
                                                      20

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   example, a particular device can be a coordinating device for messages that correspond to a
   first app but a non-coordinating device with regard to messages that correspond to a second
   app. Such distinction can result from the device varying in terms of priority across the tasks
   or apps. Further, a designation may, or may not, be exclusive to other designations (e.g., such
 5 that a device can hold multiple designations while concurrently performing different tasks).
    [00911    In some instances, a coordinating device can include a tablet, desktop computer,
   laptop computer, a mobile device or smart phone. In some instances, a mobile device can
   include a wearable device and/or a necklace, headband, clip, belt, bracelet, watch, pair of
   glasses, armband, or ear piece. In some instances, a coordinating device can be of a different
10 device type as compared to a mobile device. In various instances, there can be a single mobile
   device, a single coordinating device, multiple mobile devices and/or multiple coordinating
   devices. Thus, there can be a one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-one or many-to-many
   relationship between coordinator and mobile devices.
    [00921    While a "mobile device" can be a mobile (e.g., handheld) device, it will be
15 appreciated that in alternative embodiments, techniques disclosed herein can be extended to
   apply to a non-mobile device. For example, what is referred to herein as a mobile device can
   instead include a smart appliance, a smart television, or a thermostat. Further, a "coordinating
   device" can, but need not, be a mobile device.
    [00931    Further, while a "coordinating device" can perform coordination techniques, it will
20 be appreciated that in alternative embodiments, techniques disclosed herein can be extended
   such that the coordinating device does not perform and/or does not participate in
   coordination. Further yet, it will be appreciated that, in some instances, a mobile device can
   perform and/or can participate in coordination. In one example, a mobile or non-mobile first
   device can perform actions disclosed herein and/or have functionalities disclosed herein with
25 respect to a "coordinating device", and a different mobile or non-mobile second device can
   perform actions disclosed herein and/or have functionalities disclosed herein with respect to a
    "mobile device"
    100941    Disclosures herein can pertain to communications between or coordination amongst
   one or more coordinator and/or mobile devices. These devices can include, for example,
30 devices associated with a same user account (e.g., an account for an operating system, an
   email account, or a social-network account) or paired devices.
                                                   21

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
    [00951   In the illustration in FIG. 2A, a server 205 that hosts a server application can
   communicate via a WiFi network 210 (or via another network, such as a LAN or short-range
   network) with a coordinating device 215a. Server 205 can host an app that generates and/or
   transmits messages. A message can include, for example, a message from a person (e.g., a
 5 text message, email message, voice message or call) or a message generated in response to a
   detection (e.g., of a new news story, of a financial metric crossing a threshold, of a security
   alarm condition being satisfied, of a user's status change, of an appointment start time as
   being within a defined time period, etc.). The application can include an email app, SMS app,
   social-network app, app with sharing capability (e.g., ability to share photos, links, audio
10 clips, audio files, videos, etc.), news app (e.g., configured to send notifications of specific
   types of new news stories), a financial app (e.g., configured to send notifications in response
   to a stock price, mutual-fund price, interest rate, etc. crossing a threshold), or a calendar app
   (e.g., configured to send notifications identifying upcoming appointments, meeting invitation,
   invitation responses, etc.). An app hosted by server 205 can be one installed on one or more
15 coordinator and/or mobile devices.
    [0096]   Upon detecting a message (e.g., receiving a message fiom server 205 or another
   device or detecting a local trigger), coordinating device 215a can determine whether to
   forward it to one or more mobile devise 220a-b. In some instances, coordinating device 21 5a
   can identify which app is associated with the message (e.g., by detecting an app identifier in
20 the message). Coordinating device 215a can use the app identity to determine whether
   messages for that app are to be forwarded to other devices (e.g., paired devices or other
   devices associated with a particular account).
    [00971   In one instance, coordinating device 215a can determine whether that app is on a
   forwarding blacklist and/or whether there are one or more distribution-handling subscribers
25 for the app. The blacklist and/or subscriber identifiers can be included in an operating system
   for the app. Depending on the embodiment, the blacklist and/or subscriber identifiers may, or
   may not, be adjustable such that a user or app developer can modify the blacklist and/or
   subscriber identifiers. For example, in some instances, a blacklist can be fixed such that a
   developer of a new app cannot add its app to the blacklist. In other instances, app
30 characteristics that can be defined by a developer can be used to dynamically determine
   which apps are to be included in the blacklist. In still other instances, a user of a coordinating
   device 2 15a can be allowed to add or remove apps from the blacklist. Apps can be included
   on a blacklist or associated with a subscriber when messages are distributed across devices in
                                                     22

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   a manner different than a forwarding technique that would otherwise apply. For example, a
   server can transmit the messages for such apps to each of a set of devices, rather than relying
   on message forwarding across devices.
    100981    When it is determined that the message is to be forwarded, coordinating device 215a
 5 can generate a message to transmit to one or more mobile devices 220. In some instances, the
   forwarded message differs from one received (e.g., from server 205). For example,
   coordinating device 215a can exclude data in the received message that does not apply to
   mobile devices 220a-b. For example, coordinating device 215a can identify one or more
   characteristics (e.g., operating system, device type, screen size, app installation, browser, etc.)
10 of one or more mobile devices and can exclude data from a forwarded message that only
   applies to devices with other characteristics. Coordinating device 215a can further reduce the
   message, for example, by applying a compression technique or reducing an image size or
   resolution. If appropriate, a target device can expand the reduced message (e.g., by
   decompressing it) upon receipt of the message or upon detecting user input corresponding to
15 an instruction to present the message.
    [00991    Coordinating device 215a can forward the message over a variety of channels, such
   as over the Internet, a LAN, or a short-range network (e.g., using Bluetooth or Bluetooth Low
   Energy (BTLE)). In one instance, the message is forwarded over a short-range network when
   coordinating device 21 5a is within range and/or can pair with a receiving mobile device 220,
20 and the message is otherwise forwarded over WiFi network 210. For example, in FIG. 2A,
   coordinating device 215a can forward a message to mobile device 220a over a Bluctooth
   connection, while the message is forwarded to mobile device 220b over WiFi network 210.
    101001    A condition can be used to determine which (if any) of a set of devices are to belong
   to a set in which one or more devices are to suppress an alert corresponding to a message.
25 The condition can include, for example, a proximate condition which can determine whether
   (and which) devices are near each other. In one instance, the proximate condition can
   compare a geographical separation between a mobile device and a coordinating device (each
   of which can be determined, e.g.. based on GPS or access signals) to a threshold. Devices can
   be defined to be near each other or to be nearby devices when the distance is less than the
30 threshold. In one instance, the proximate condition can include a functional assessment. For
   example, devices can be defined to be near each other or to be nearby devices when a short
   range connection can be established and/or when connection strength exceeds a threshold.
                                                   23

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   The condition can alternatively or additionally depend on whether it is inferred that one or
   more devices are being used, moved or worn. In some instances, the condition and/or device
   set definition depends on device types. For example, if it is detected that a mobile device is in
   motion, a set can include all mobile devices associated with a user. As another example, a
 5 condition can require that at least one mobile device be near another device associated with a
   same user account.
    [01011    When the condition is not satisfied and/or a device is not in a set for which the
   condition is satisfied, the device can respond to a new message by presenting an alert (e.g,, a
   sound or haptic stimulus. Characteristics of the alert (e.g., whether it is sound or haptic, or
10 particular selection of an audio signal or haptic stimulus) can be fixed across user accounts,
   can be configurable based on user input, can be the same across message types, can vary
   across message types, and/or can vary based on other factors.
    101021    For example, in the illustrated scenario in FKI   2A, mobile device 220b associated
   with a user account is not near another device associated with the user account. Thus, a
15 proximate condition may not be satisfied, and mobile device 220b can present an alert (e.g., a
   sound alert) in response to detecting a new message (e.g., forwarded by coordinating device
   215a over WiFi network 210).
    101031    Meanwhile, in this illustration, a proximate condition can indicate that coordinating
   device 2 15a is defined to be near mobile device 220a. Thus, a coordinating technique can be
20 implemented such that only one of these nearby devices presents an alert. Which device
   presents an alert can depend on, for example, an activity mode of one or more of the devices
   and/or a device priority.
    101041    In one instance, device selection amongst a set of devices (e.g., all devices
   associated with a user or account and/or all devices determined to be near each other) can be
25 biased towards a device in an active mode. A definition of what constitutes an active mode
   can be fixed or can vary across devices. A device can be defined to be in an active mode, for
   example, when: a screen of the device is on, user input has been received via a user interface
   within a defined time period (e.g., within the last minute), a screen of the device is unlocked,
   a sensor detects that a user is wearing the device, and/or a sensor detects that a user is holding
30 the device. In one instance, a mode of a coordinating device 215a can be defined as "active"
   when its screen is unlocked, and a mode of a mobile device 220a-b can be defined to be
   "active" when its screen is unlocked and the device is being worn. 0ther potential device
                                                    24

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   modes can include one or more of: inactive (e.g., when a screen is locked, when a screen is
   off, when user input has not been received within a defined time period, and/or when a device
   is not being worn), and/or sleep (e.g., when a screen is off), locked (e.g., when a device is
   locked). In some instances, a device mode can be defined based on a user-definable setting.
 5 For example, a mode can include a do-not-disturb mode or a vibrate mode. It will thus be
   appreciated that, in some instances, a device can be in multiple modes (e.g., active and
   vibrate).
    101051   In one instance, the alert can be presented by a device of highest priority amongst a
   set of devices (e.g., a set of nearby devices) that is in a particular mode (e.g., an active mode).
10 If none of the set of devices is in the particular mode, the alert can be presented by the device
   of highest priority amongst the set of devices. In one instance, the alert can be presented by a
   coordinating device in the set of devices if the coordinating device is in the particular mode.
   If the coordinating device is not in the particular mode, the alert can be presented by a mobile
   device in the set of nearby devices if the mobile device is in the particular mode. If none of
15 the set of nearby devices is in the particular mode, the alert can be presented by the
   coordinating device.
    [0106]   In the illustration of FIG. 2A, coordinating device 215a can present an alert of a
   new message while mobile device 220a can suppress an alert for the message (though it can
   detect the message as well since coordinating device 21 5a can forward the message to the
20 mobile device via a short-range connection). This device selection can be due to coordinating
   device 215a being in an active mode and due to coordinating device 215 a being defined as a
   coordinating device or due to its priority. The alert presentation by coordinating device 215a
   and the lack of alert presentation by mobile device 220a can occur irrespective of a mode of
   mobile device 220a.
25  [01071    In the illustration of FIG. 2B, coordinating device 215b is not in an active mode
   (e.g., and is instead in an inactive mode), though nearby mobile device 220c is in an active
   mode. Because no coordinating and/or high-priority device is in the active mode, the
   presentation can be made by a lower priority and/or mobile device if it is in an active mode.
   Accordingly, mobile device 220c is shown as presenting the alert of a new message, while
30 coordinating device 2 15b can suppress an alert for the new message.
    [0108]   In the illustration of FIG. 2C, neither coordinating device 215c nor mobile device
   220d is in an active mode, and coordinating device 215c can present the alert while mobile
                                                     25

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   device 220d can suppress an alert for the new message. This device selection between
   devices riot in an active mode can be due to coordinating device 21 5a being defined as a
   coordinating device or due to its priority,
    101091   FIG. 3 shows examples of devices connected on a network to facilitate message
 5 distribution and/or coordinated alert presentation according to an embodiment of the present
   invention. Exemplary devices 305 that can receive messages, present messages and/or present
   alerts of messages can include a mobile device 305a (e.g., a necklace, headband, clip, belt,
   bracelet, watch, pair of glasses, armband, or ear piece), a phone 305b (e.g., a smart phone), a
   tablet 305c, a desktop computer 305d and a laptop computer 305e.
10  [01101    A device 305 can provide an output to inform a user of a message. The output can
   include, e.g., a display of information, an audio signal to alert a user of a message and/or a
   haptic signal. A device 305 can also include an input interface via which a user can provide
   input. For example, the input can include one to initiate an action, such as an action to:
   dismiss a visual notification presentation or non-visual alert,. establish a pairing, send an
15 invitation (eg., for pairing with a device), view a message, open an app, and/or generate a
   message.
    [01111   Each of one or more devices 305 can communicate with a remote server 310 over a
   connection (e.g., a wireless connection, such as WiFi network 315). Server 310 can be any
   device that communicates with one or more electronic devices (e.g., associated with a user
20 account and/or running an app).Server 310 can host an app, as described above in relation to
   FIGS. 2A-2C. Server 305 can be mobile or non-mobile. Examples of server devices can
   include a smart phone, tablet computer, other handheld computing and/or communication
   device, a laptop computer, a desktop computer systems, a security system, an environmental
   control systems, and so on.
25  [01121    Sever 310 can store account data for each of a plurality of user accounts in an
   account data store 325. Account data can include, for example, one or more of: a user's name,
   a login, an e-mail address, a password, and a phone number. Each of two or more devices
   305a-e can be associated with a same account. The two or more devices can include multiple
   devices of a same type and/or devices of different types. In one instance, user input (e.g., a
30 login and password) received by each of the two or more devices can identify a same user
   account. Receipt of the input can result in the input-receiving device being logged into an
   account. In one instance, a connection between two or more devices (e.g., a device pairing)
                                                   26

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   can indicate that one of the connected devices corresponds to a same account associated with
   another of the connected devices.
    [0113]    Server 310 (or another device, which can include a device 305) can transmit a
   message to one or more devices 305a-e (e.g., via WiFi network 315). In some instances, a
 5 device 305a-e locally generates the message, which can include an indication that an event is
   occurring, such as an alarm, calendar event, reminder, battery alert, storage-space alert or
   connectivity alert. The message can be one associated with a user account and/or with the
   server application. In some instances, the message can be transmitted to an incomplete subset
   of a set of devices associated with a user account. For example, a number of devices (e.g.,
10 one), n, can be defined indicating how many devices are to receive the message. Devices can
   then be ranked along a priority list, and a message can be delivered to the n devices with a
   relatively high or highest priority. In some instances, the message can be transmitted to a
   subset of devices that are associated with a particular designation (e.g., a coordinating device)
   and/or device type (e.g., a phone).
15  [01141    One or more devices 305a-e that receive the message can then determine whether to
   forward the message (e.g., based on whether an app associated with message is on a blacklist
   or has a distribution-handling subscribing) and can forward messages to one or more devices
   associated with a same user account. Messages can be forwarded, for example, over a
   wireless link (e.g.. WiFi network 315 and/or the Internet) and/or via a short-range connection
20 (e.g., Bluetooth connection 325 or a BTLE connection). In some instances, a message can be
   forwarded over a short-range connection when the short-range connection is available and
   otherwise over a WiFi network. In some instances, the forwarded message can include an
   indication as to the connection used to forward the message (e.g., whether a short-range
   connection was used), which can provide an indication as to whether alert coordination is to
25 be performed.
    [01151    Devices receiving a message can determine whether one or more other devices
   associated with a user account are nearby. If so, a coordination technique can be implemented
   to prevent each nearby device from presenting an alert. As an alternative to redundant
   alerting, one or more devices in a set of proximate devices can be selected to present the alert.
30 In one instance, nearby devices communicate over a short-range network (e.g., Bluetooth
   connection 325) such that one or more devices can determine whether it is to present an alert
   based on characteristics of one or more other devices. In some embodiments, alerts are
                                                   27

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   suppressed according to an additional or alternative condition not focused on device
   proximity. For example, if it is detected that a device associated with a user account (e.g., any
   such device or one of a particular type) is in an active, mobile or worn mode, an alert can be
   suppressed at each of one or more other devices associated with the account (e.g., any such
 5 other device or one of a particular type).
    [01161    FIG. 4 A shows a block diagram of a user device 404 according to an embodiment of
   the invention. Device 404 can include a coordinating device or a mobile device. A message
   can be received from a message source, which can include, for example, a server hosting a
   server application or another device associated with a same user account as associated with
10 device 404. In some instances, user device 404 locally generates the message (e.g., based on a
   rule defining when an alarm, alert or notification is to occur, which can be based on user
   input defining, for example, a calendar event or alarm).
    101171    In some instances, an app associated with the message can be running, in which
   case an app processor 406 can receive the message. In some instances, the app can be not
15 running, in which case a power management unit 408 can receive the message and send it to
   app processor 406 such that the app will then begin to run.
    [01181    In some instances, device 404 can include a message forwarder 410 that can
   determine whether to forward a particular message to another device. In such instances,
   message forwarder 410 can detect which app is associated with a message and can determine
20 whether the app is on a blacklist or has a subscri her (e.g., another app) that wiIl handle
   distribution of messages for the app. For example, a blacklist can include an identification of
   a reminder app, a calendar app, ai emergency app and/or a phone app. As another example,
   a mail app can have a subscriber to handle forwarding.
    101191    When it is determined that the message is to be forwarded (e.g., because the app is
25 neither on the blacklist nor has a distribution-coordinating subscriber), message forwarder
   410 can identify other devices to forward the message to (e.g., other devices associated with a
   same user account as one associated with device 404). In some instances, device detector 412
   determines whether device 404 can communicate with any of the other devices over a short
   range connection. If so, the message can be sent accordingly. Otherwise, the message can be
30 sent over a WiFi connection (e.g., the Internet).
    [01201    App processor 406 can also inform a notification manager 414 of the message, and
   notification manager 414 can add a notification for the message to a notification board 416.
                                                    28

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   Notification board 416 can electronically manage notifications representative of messages.
   Each notification in notification board 416 can be ranked relative to other notifications on
   board 416. A notification's rank can depend, for example, on when it is added to board 416, a
   message priority and/or which app the message corresponds to. For example, in one instance,
 5 whenever a new notification is added to board, it can be assigned a lowest rank and ranks of
   all other notifications are shifted. In one instance, apps can be prioritized, such that messages
   from one app are not to be ranked above (with lower rank) messages from another app. In one
   instance, messages can be assigned a priority (e.g., based on a message type and/or
   corresponding app), and messages with one priority are to be ranked above messages with
10 another priority.
    [01211    A notification can include or can be associated with a time, such as a time that the
   notification was added to notification board 416 or a time that a corresponding message was
   received. A notification can include, for example, a message identifier, part or all of a
   message, information pertaining to a source of a message (e.g., a phone number, an mail
15 address, or a user name), an identifier or name of an associated app, action options (e.g., view
   message, dismiss, snooze, etc.), and/or an expiration time.
    [0122]    Notification manager 414 can also remove one or more notifications from
   notification board 416. Such removal can occur, for example, upon detecting that: a defined
   period of time has passed since an addition of the notification to board 416, a user action has
20 closed a notification (e.g., by dismissing or interacting with a notification presentation and/or
   interface corresponding to an alert), a number of notifications in board 416 has surpassed a
   threshold (e.g., such that one or more older notifications are removed), and/or a signal
   received from another device indicates that the notification is to be removed (e.g., indicating
   that a user action received at that device closed the notification).
25  [01231    Notification manager 414 can alert a notification presentation center 418 when a
   new notification is added to notification board 416 and/or when a new message is received.
   When notification presentation center 418 detects that a screen of device 404 is on,
   notification presentation center 418 can generate a visual presentation for the notification.
   The visual presentation can include, e.g., a message title or subject, part or all of a message,
30 an identifier of an app corresponding to the message, a time corresponding to the notification,
   action options, and/or source information. The presentation can be configured to be presented
   over a portion of or over all of a screen of device 404.
                                                     29

      WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
    [01241     In some instances, a presentation is initially presented in a reduced form, and an
   expanded notification can be presented in response to user action. For example, a visual
   indicator (e.g., near an app icon or near a screen corner) can indicate that new notification
   presentations are available. If a user selects the indicator (e.g., by opening an app or clicking
 5 on or touching the indicator) more or all of one, more or all new notification presentations
   (e.g., all new notification presentations corresponding to one app or all new notification
   presentations) can be presented.
    101251     In some instances, when multiple notification presentations are generated (in
   response to multiple new notifications), notification presentations can be stacked, such that a
10 response to one notification presentation (e.g., by dismissing it) can cause another
   notification presentation to appear. An order of the notification presentations in the stacking
   (elg., influencing which notification presentation is shown first) can be based on ranks of the
   corresponding notifications. In some instances, when multiple notification presentations are
   generated, notification presentations can be presented at different portions of the screen. Each
15 notification presentation's screen position can be based on ranks of the corresponding
   notifications (e.g., such that notifications with higher ranks are associated with notification
   presentations with positions higher on a screen relative to other notification presentations).
    101261     Notification presentation center 418 can send notification presentations to a
   graphical user interface (GUI) engine 420 to visually present the notification presentations on
20 a screen of device 404. GUI engine 420 can detect user interactions with the notification
   presentations, such as selection of an action option. In some instances, an action can be
   handled by notification presentation center 418 and notification manager 414. For example, if
   a user dismisses a notification presentation, notification presentation center 418 can cease
   presentation of the notification presentation, and notification manager 414 can remove the
25 corresponding notification from notification board 416. In some instances, an action can be
   handled by notification presentation center 418 and app processor 406. For example, if a user
   selects a notification presentation or selects a view option, notification presentation center
   418 can cease presentation of the notification and app processor 406 can present an interface
   for the app and/or a corresponding message.
30  [01271     It will thus be appreciated that, in some instances, there can be a variable delay
   between a first time at which notification presentation center 418 is informed of a new
   message and/or notification and a second time at which a corresponding notification
                                                      30

     WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   presentation is presented. For example, a delay can be caused by a screen not being on at the
   first time, based on a presence of multiple new messages and/or notification (e.g., if a user
   must view one notification presentation before being presented another) and/or based on a
   delay in receiving user input corresponding to a request to present a notification presentation
 5 (e.g., clicking on a notification indicator).
   [01281     Notification manager 414 can also notify an alert manager 42.2 when a new
   notification is added to notification board 416 and/or a new message is received. Alert
   manager 422 can determine whether to present an alert, such as a short-latency and/or non
   visual alert (e.g., an audio and/or haptic alert presented immediately or shortly after being
10 notified of the new notification and/or message). In one instance, device detector 412
   determines whether a proximate condition is satisfied, thereby indicating that one or more
   other devices (e.g., or a user or corresponding to a user account) are near device 404. If not,
   alert manager 422 can instruct alert generator 424 to output the alert. If so, alert manager 422
   can implement a coordinating technique (e.g., such as a technique described herein) to
15 determine whether device 404 is to present the alert. If device 404 is to present the alert, alert
   manager 422 can instruct alert generator 424 to output the alert. Otherwise, alert manager 422
   can suppress an alert (e.g., by not instructing alert generator 424 to output the alert).
   101291     While electronic device 404 is described with reference to particular blocks, it is to
   be understood that these blocks are defined for convenience of description and are not
20 intended to imply a particular physical arrangement of component parts. Further, the blocks
   need not correspond to physically distinct components. Blocks can be configured to perform
   various operations, e.g., by programming a processor or providing appropriate control
   circuitry, and various blocks might or might not be reconfigurable depending on how the
   initial configuration is obtained. Embodiments of the present invention can be realized in a
25 variety of apparatus including electronic devices implemented using any combination of
   circuitry and software. It is also not required that every block in FIG, 4 be implemented in a
   given embodiment of an electronic device disclosed herein (e.g., a coordinating device or
   mobile device). For example, a device (e.g., a mobile device) can lack message forwarder
   410.
30 [01301     FIG. 4B shows a block diagram of message forwarder 410 according to an
   embodiment of the invention. Message forwarder 426 can include a detection module 426
   that can detect a message. The message can include one generated locally at the coordinating
                                                     31

      WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
   device system (e.g., a message identifying that a device has that a defined time or time period
   (e.g., associated with a calendar appointment) has passed), an expected weather condition is
   forecasted, a news story or event has been reported, and so on).
    101311    In one instance, the message includes data pertaining to a location of the device or is
 5 generated in response to detecting that a location-based condition is satisfied based on a
   location of the device. For example, the message can indicate that the device has entered a
   defined geographical region (e.g., associated with a "home" region), has crossed a
   geographical border, or is within a defined distance from a store or upcoming turn in a
   navigation route. Such locating of the device and/or detecting that a location-based condition
10 is satisfied can include, for example, determine which other devices (e.g., iPS satellites,
   WiFi hotspots, merchant devices and/or fixed user devices) the device can communicate with,
   determining a delay and/or strength of such communicationss, triangulating a position,
   estimating a geographical coordinate, and/or comparing a signal strength or delay to a
   threshold. In some instances, locating of the device and/or detecting that a location-based
15 condition is satisfied uses particular hardware elements (e.g., a GPS receiver) in the device
   that may not be present in other user devices.
    [0132]    The message can alternatively or additionally include on a niessage received at the
   coordinating device system from a remote source (e.g., another user device or a remote
   server). For example, the message can include a text message, SMIS message, e-mail or voice
20 message.
    [01331    In some instances, an app identification module 428 can identify- an app associated
   with the detected message. For example, the message can include an identifier of the app
   (e.g., such that a calendar-reminder message includes an identifier of a calendar app). The
   app can include one that was (locally or remotely) at least partly responsible for generation
25 and/or transmission of the message.
    [01341    Message forwarder 410 can include a blacklist monitor module 430, which can
   detennine whether the identified app is on a blacklist. The blacklist can be locally stored on
   the device (e.g., as part of an operating system). In some instances, the blacklist can be
   modified (e.g., based on input from a device user or based on installation of an app). In some
30 instances, it is static (e.g., such that which apps identified on the blacklist cannot be changed
   based on user input or app execution). When blacklist monitor module 430 determines that
   the identified app is on a blacklist, it can refrain from transmitting the message (or processed
                                                     32,

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   version thereof) to another device (e.g., another device associated with a same user account
   and/or a nearby device).
    [01351   Message forwarder 410 can include a subscriber detection module 432 that
   identifies one or more apps subscribed to process or handle distribution of the message. In
 5 some instances, an app subscribed to process or handle distribution of the message includes
   the app identified as being associated with the detected message. For example, a message
   indicating that a stock price crossed a threshold value can be associated with a stock app, and
   the stock app can be subscribed to process the message.
    101361   In some instances, an app subscribed to process or handle distribution of the
10 message includes an app different than one as being associated with (e.g., at least partly
   responsible for generation of) the message. For example, a calendar app may be subscribed to
   process messages generated by a weather app (e.g., such that a user can re-evaluate outdoor
   events).
    101371   A subscriber structure (e.g., a subscriber table) can indicate, for example, that one is
15 subscribed to process all messages associated with a same or different app, to process all
   messages associated with a particular characteristic (e.g., associated with a particular contact
   or a particular calendar) and/or to process particular messages. Thus, subscriber detection
   module 432 can perform a look-up technique to determine whether an identifier
   corresponding to (for example) the app associated with the message, a characteristic of the
20 message and/or an identifier of the message; to determine whether an identifier corresponding
   to the app is present in a corresponding field (e.g., a table column or row) in the structure
   and/or whether there are any subscribing apps associated with the identified app associated
   with the message, message characteristic or app identifier.
    101381   For example, a subscriber structure can include a table, where a first column can
25 identify various apps at least partly responsible for generating a message, a second column
   can identify one or more apps subscribed to handle message distribution for messages of the
   app and a third column can identify one or more apps to handle processing of the message for
   the app. Upon a device having received a message and identified an app at least partly
   responsible for having generated the message, subscriber detection module 432 can determine
30 whether the app is represented in the first column and then determine whether and/or which
   apps are in the second and/or third columns of a matching row.
                                                   33

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
    [01391     The subscriber structure can be locally stored on the device (e.g., as part of an
   operating system). In some instances, the subscriber structure can be modified (e.g., based on
   input from a device user or based on installation of an app). In some instances, it is static
   (e.g., such that which apps identified on the blacklist cannot be changed based on user input
 5 or app execution).
    [01401     When one or more subscribing apps are identified, a notification distribution
    nodule 434 can enable each or the subscribing apps (or one or more select subscribing apps)
   to access (and/or process) the message. Notification distribution module 434 can transmit all
   or part of the message to an app processing module 436 (e.g., associated with a subscribing
10 app), which can be local on device 400 or remote.
    [01411     In some instances, app processing module 436 can then handle distribution of (a
   processed or unprocessed version) the message. Thus, a subscribing app can use its own
   distribution rules to determine, for example, how to distribute the message (e.g., via a remote
   server or relying on a remote server to have independently transmitted the message to each
15 device; selecting a transmission protocol; and/or selecting a distribution time), to which
   device(s) to distribute the message to, and so on.
    [01421     In some instances, app processing module 436 can transform or process (used
   interchangeably in this context) the message. The transformation or processing can include,
   for example, removing select content in the message (e.g., a precise time stamp, a full source
20 of a message or an identifier of a generating app), condensing or compressing part or all of
   the message, extracting an incomplete subset of data in the message to selectively include in
   the transformed niessage (e.g., such that a transformed message includes an identifier of a
   calendar event but not all of the event details or such that the transformed message includes
   an identifier of a text-message sender but not her particular name and number), generating a
25 summary of the message, identifying an action to be performed at another device based on
   content in the message, for example, generating a new message (eg., pursuant to a rule
   having a condition of detecting a particular type of message). Thus, in some instances, a size
   (e.g., in terms of storage space) of the transformed or processed message is smaller than a
   size of the detected message. The transformation or processing can be performed in
30 accordance with a transformation protocol defined, e.g., as part of an operating system, as
   part of code of the subscribing app, as part of code of the identified message-associated app,
   and/or based on user input.
                                                    34

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
    [01431    Upon transforming or processing the message, app processing module 436 can (in
   some instances) transmit the transformed or processed message to notification distribution
   module 436 or can otherwise allow for notification distribution module 436 to access the
   transformed or processed message.
 5  [01441    A destination identification module 438 can identify one or more other electronic
   devices to receive the transformed or processed message. The other electronic device(s) and
   device 400 can each be associated with a same account, can be physically near each other,
   and/or can be paired. The identification of the other device(s) can be based on content in (or
   associated with) the detected message, content in (or associated with) the transformed or
10 processed message, a subscriber structure (e.g., associating particular subscriptions or
   subscribing apps to particular destination devices), and/or a search for nearby devices, a local
   or remote data structure identifying devices associated with a particular account or having a
   particular relationship (e.g., pairing) with each other and/or a locally or remotely stored
   transmission rule (a general rule or one specific to a device type, user account, message
15 characteristic and/or subscribing app).
    [01451    As one example, a transmission rule can indicate that a coordinating device is to
   transmit either a processed or unprocessed message to each other device associated with a
   same user account so long as an app associated with the message is not on a blacklist. When
    in app is subscribed to process the message, a processed version of the message can be
20 transmitted. Otherwise, an unprocessed version can be transmitted.
    [01461    Notification distribution module 436 can then transmit a signal that includes the
   processed (or unprocessed - when there is no subscriber app) message to the identified other
   destination device(s). The signal can, in some instances, include an identifier of the app
   associated with the detected niessage and/or a subscriber app that processed or transformed
25 the message.
    [01471    In some instances, the transmission can occur immediately (e.g., upon processing of
   the message). Notification distribution module 436 can, in some instances, determine whether
   the transmission was successful. If, instead, a transmission failure or time-out is detected,
   notification distribution module 436 may reattempt the transmission (e.g., for a defined time
30 period or defined number of times or upon receiving an indication that the other device is
   responsive to device 400).
                                                    35

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
    [01481    Upon receiving the signal, a destination device may itself use similar or
   complementary modules to respond to the signal. For example, the destination device can
   include a detection module to detect the message in the signal and can include an app
   identification module 428 that identifies an app associated with the app. This app may be one
 5 associated with the message initially detected by the transmitting app and/or a subscribing
   app.
    [0149]    In some instances, the destination device can also include a notification distribution
   module to enable the app to transform data in the signal into a notification. This
   transformation can, in some instances, include processing counter to that performed at the
10 transmitting device. For example, a transmitting device may have generated a condensed or
   summary version of a message, and a destination device may then expand the version into a
   complete message. The expansion can include, for example, retrieving data stored at the
   destination device (e.g., associated with the app, a characteristic of data in the signal, and/or a
   portion of data in the signal). The retrieved data can then independently serve as a
15 notification for the message or can be combined with some or all of the data in the signal to
   forn the notification. The destination device can also include an output module to generate a
   visual notification presentation corresponding to the message and to present the visual
   notification.
    [01501    For example, a geolocation app on a first device can generate a message that a user
20 has entered a geographical region that is to trigger a particular reminder set up by a user using
   a calendar app. Thus, the calendar app can be subscribed to process the message. An app
   processing module associated with the calendar app on the first device can transform the
   message to include only an identifier of the particular reminder and an indication that a
   condition of the reminder has been satisfied. The transformed message can be transmitted to
25 another user device, which can then detect that the message is associated with the calendar
   app. An app processing module associated with the calendar app on the second device can
   then retrieve from storage the identified reminder. An output module on the second device
   can then present a visual notification on a screen of the second device that includes part or all
   of content of the reminder.
30  [0151]    FIG. 4C shows a block diagram of alert manager 422 according to an embodiment
   of the invention. Alert manager 422 can include a detection module 440 that can detect a
   message. The message can include one generated locally at the coordinating device system
                                                   36

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   (e.g., a message identifying that a device has that a defined time or time period (e.g.,
   associated with a calendar appointment) has passed), an expected weather condition is
   forecasted, a news story or event has been reported, and so on). The message can
   alternatively or additionally include one received at the coordinating device system from a
 5 remote source (e.g., another user device or a remote server). For example, the message can
   include one forwarded from another user device and/or a text message, SMS message, email
   or voice message. Detection module 440 can parallel or be the same as detection module 426
   of message forwarder 410.
    [01521    Upon detecting the message, an alert coordination module 444 can communicate
10 with device detector 412 to determine whether a proximate condition is satisfied. Device
   detector 412 can determine a location characteristic for another device (e.g., associated with a
   same account) and use the characteristic to determine whether a proximate condition is
   satisfied. The location characteristic can include, for example, whether device 400 can
   communicate with a mobile device via a particular type of communication channel (e.g., over
15 a short-range network, a Bluetooth network or BILE network), a signal strength between
   device 400 and a mobile device over a particular type of communication channel, or a
   distance between device 400 and a mobile device. The proximate condition can be one that is
   satisfied, for example, when communication over a particular type of communication channel
   is established, when a signal strength is over a defined threshold, or when a separation
20 distance is less than a defined threshold.
    [0153]    Device detector 412 can, in some instances, scan to determine whether any user
   devices (e.g., associated with a particular account and/or of a particular device type) can be
   detected over one or more particular communication channels (e.g., via a short-range
   communication channel, Bluetooth channel, or BTLE channel) and/or whether device 400 is
25 paired to another device (e.g., associated with a particular account and/or of a particular
   device type). Detecting another device over a particular communication channel or detecting
   a paired device can be determined to correspond to satisfaction of the proximate condition.
    [0154]    Device detector 412 can, in some instances, receive information identifying a
   location characteristic of each of one or more devices (e.g., associated with a particular
30 account and/or of a particular device type). For example, GPS coordinates can be determined
   for each device (locally at the device or remotely at a server), and the GPS coordinates can be
   communicated to device detector 412 (e.g., periodically, upon detecting a change in location
                                                   37

     WO 2015/183558                                                             PCT/US2015/030591
   or in response to a request from device detector). Device detector 412 can then determine
   whether any device (and/or which device(s)) is within a threshold distance from device 400.
   [0155]      When the proximate condition is not satisfied, an output module 444 can present an
   alert (e.g., an audio and/or haptic alert) for the message. When the proximate condition is
 5 satisfied, an alert-coordination process can be initiated to inhibit multiple nearby devices
   from redundantly presenting alerts corresponding a single message. Which device is to
   present an alert can depend on which mode each of one or more of the nearby devices are in.
   [0156]      A mode detection module 446 can detect a mode of the coordinating device. In
   some instances, mode detection module 446 can determine whether device 400 is in an active
10 mode (e.g., by detenining whether a screen of the device is on, whether the device is
   unlocked, whether input has been received within a defined time period, whether the device is
   within a defined orientation space and/or elevation region and/or whether sensor data
   indicates that the device is being worn).
   101571      When it is determined that a coordinating device is in an active mode, an output
15 module 444 can present an alert for the message. For example, an audio or haptic stimulus
   can be presented. Further, an alert coordination module 448 can transmit a signal to each of
   one or more other devices (e.g., those for which the proximate condition was satisfied)
   indicating that the receiving device is to suppress (e.g., not present) an alert for the message
   (e.g., to not present any alert, any non-visual alert, any haptic alert or any audio alert). The
20 signal can include an identifier for the message and/or of the coordinating device.
   [01581      When it is determined that a coordinating device is not in an active mode (e.g.,
   when mode detection module 446 detects that the coordinating device is in a sleep mode
   and/or is not in the active mode), alert coordination module 448 can transmit a signal to
   another device (e.g., one for which the proximate condition was satisfied), the signal
25 corresponding to an invitation to present an alert for the message. The signal can include an
   identifier for the message and/or of the coordinating device.
   [01591      A detection module on the receiving device can detect the signal and an alert
   coordination module on the receiving device can identify the invitation to present the alert.
   Whether the receiving device accepts the invitation can depend on a mode of the receiving
30 device. A mode detection module at the receiving device can identify a mode of the device
   (e.g., whether it is in an active mode, sleep mode or do-not-disturb mode). If the device is in
   an active mode or do-not-disturb mode, an alert coordination module can transmit a signal
                                                     38

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   back to the coordinating device identifying an acceptance of the alert-presentation invitation.
   If the device is in an active mode, an alert can be presented via an output module of the
   device. If the device is in a do-not-disturb mode, the output module can suppress presentation
   of the alert.
 5  [01601    Returning to the coordinating device, upon transmitting the invitation signal, alert
   coordination module 448 can then monitor for a response signal from the other device. If a
   signal is received indicating that the other device will handle presentation of an alert for the
   message, output module 444 can suppress presentation of an alert for the message at the
   coordinating device (e.g., by not presenting an audio alert, haptic alert and/or visual alert for
10 the message),
    [01611    If a signal is received from the other device indicating that the other device will not
   handle presentation of an alert for the message and/or if no signal is received responsive to
   the invitation within a defined time period, output module 446 can present an alert for the
   message.
15  [01621    Mode detection module 444 can also determine whether device 400 is in a do-not
   disturb mode. A do-not-disturb mode can correspond to a mode (e.g., set in response to
   corresponding user input or to a rule, such as one defined by a user) during which at least
   some (or all) audio and/or haptic stimuli are not to be presented. For example, when a device
   is in a do-not-disturb mode, audio and/or haptic stimuli that would otherwise be triggered, via
20 execution of one or more select apps (or all apps), by events (e.g., receiving a call, message
   or notification) can be suppressed. When it is determined that a coordinating device is in a
   do-not-disturb mode, the coordinating device may suppress an alert for the message and also
   send a signal to one or more other devices (e.g., for which the proximate condition is
   satisfied) indicating that they are to also suppress presenting an alert fbr the message.
25  [01631    It will be appreciated that, in some instances, audio and/or haptic alerts outputs
   initiated by execution of one or more particular apps (e.g., a device-finding and/or emergency
   app) are not to be affected by a do-not-disturb mode (e.g., as determined based on a device
   setting or configuration, instructions for the app and/or user input). For example, a do-not
   disturb mode may prevent a device from presenting a sound responsive to a new email but
30 may allow a sound to be presented upon detecting that a user is remotely executing software
   to find the device. In these situations - where the do-not-disturb effect is selective - it will be
   appreciated that disclosures herein relating to coordinated efforts to respect such a mode may
                                                    39

     WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   be limited to apply to the apps and//or events that are to be influenced by the mode. Thus, a
   device may, in essence, determine whether it is in a do-not-disturb mode on an app-specific
   basis.
   101641    FIG. 5 is a simplified block diagram of a mobile device 500 (e.g., implementing
 5 mobile device 220a, 220b, 220c and/or 220d) according to an embodiment of the present
   invention. Mobile device 500 can include processing subsystem 502, storage subsystem 504,
   user interface 506, one or more connection components (e.g., RF interface 508 and/or
   connector interface 510), power subsystem 512, environmental sensors 514, and strap sensors
   516. Mobile device 500 can also include other components (not explicitly shown).
10 [01651    Storage subsystem 504 can be implemented, e.g., using magnetic storage media,
   flash memory, other semiconductor memory (e.g., DRAM, SRAM), or any other
   non-transitory storage medium, or a combination of media, and can include volatile and/or
   non-volatile media. In some embodiments, storage subsystem 504 can store media items such
   as audio files, video files, image or artwork files; information about a user's contacts (names,
15 addresses, phone numbers, etc.); information about game-performance assessments and/or
   games that a user previously participated in information about a user's scheduled games,
   appointments and events; notes; and/or other types of inforrnation, examples of which are
   described below. In some embodiments, storage subsystem 504 can also store one or more
   application programs (or apps) 534 to be executed by processing subsystem 502 (e.g., video
20 game programs, personal information management programs, media playback programs,
   interface programs associated with particular host devices and/or host device functionalities,
   etc.).
   101661    User interface 506 can include any combination of input and output devices. A user
   can operate input devices of user interface 506 to invoke the functionality of mobile device
25 500 and can view, hear, and/or otherwise experience output from mobile de ice 500 via
   output devices of user interface 506.
   [0167]    Examples of output devices include display 520, speakers 522, and haptic output
   generator 524. Display 520 can be implemented using compact display technologies, e.g.,
   LCD (liquid crystal display), LED (light-emitting diode), OLED (organic light-emitting
30 diode), or the like, In some embodiments, display 520 can incorporate a flexible display
   element or curved-glass display element, allowing mobile device 500 to conform to a desired
   shape. One or more speakers 522 can be provided using smaIl-form-factor speaker
                                                    40

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   technologies, including any technology capable of converting electronic signals into audible
   sound waves. In some embodiments, speakers 522 can be used to produce tones (e.g.,
   beeping or ringing) and can but need not be capable of reproducing sounds such as speech or
   music with any particular degree of fidelity. Haptic output generator 524 can be, eg., a
 5 device that converts electronic signals into vibrations; in some embodiments, the vibrations
   can be strong enough to be felt by a user wearing mobile device 500 but not so strong as to
   produce distinct sounds.
    101681   Examples of input devices include microphone 526, touch sensor 528, and camera
   529. Microphone 526 can include any device that converts sound waves into electronic
10 signals. In some embodiments, microphone 526 can be sufficiently sensitive to provide a
   representation of specific words spoken by a user; in other embodiments, microphone 526
   can be usable to provide indications of general ambient sound levels without necessarily
   providing a high-quality electronic representation of specific sounds.
    [01691   Touch sensor 528 can include, e.g., a capacitive sensor array with the ability to
15 localize contacts to a particular point or region on the surface of the sensor and in some
   instances, the ability to distinguish multiple simultaneous contacts. In some embodiments,
   touch sensor 528 can be overlaid over display 520 to provide a touchscreen interface (e.g.
   touchscreen interface 403 of FIG. 4), and processing subsystem 504 can translate touch
   events (including taps and/or other gestures made with one or more contacts) into specific
20 user inputs depending on what is currently displayed on display 520.
    [01701    Camera 529 can include, e.g., a compact digital camera that includes an image
   sensor such as a CMOS sensor and optical components (e.g. lenses) arranged to focus an
   image onto the image sensor, along with control logic operable to use the imaging
   components to capture and store still and/or video images. Images can be stored, e.g., in
25 storage subsystem 504 and/or transmitted by mobile device 500 to other devices for storage.
   Depending on implementation, the optical components can provide fixed focal distance or
   variable focal distance; in the latter case, autofocus can be provided. In some embodiments,
   camera 529 can be disposed along an edge of a face member e.g., the top edge, and oriented
   to allow a user to capture images of nearby objects in the environment such as a bar code or
30 QR code. In other embodiments, camera 529 can be disposed on the front surface of a device
   face member, e.g., to capture images of the user. Zero, one, or more cameras can be provided,
   depending on implementation.
                                                    41

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
    [01711     In some embodiments, user interface 506 can provide output to and/or receive input
    from an auxiliary device such as a headset. For example, audio jack 530 can connect via an
    audio cable (e.g., a standard 2.5-mm or 3.5-mm audio cable) to an auxiliary device. Audio
   jack 530 can include input and/or output paths. Accordingly, audio jack 530 can provide
 5  audio to the auxiliary device and/or receive audio from the auxiliary device. In some
    embodiments, a wireless connection interface can be used to communicate with an auxiliary
    device.
    101721     Processing subsystem 502 can be implemented as one or more integrated circuits,
    e.g., one or more single-core or multi-core microprocessors or microcontrollers, examples of
10 which are known in the art. In operation, processing system 502 can control the operation of
   mobile device 500. In various embodiments, processing subsystem 504 can execute a variety
    of programs in response to program code and can maintain multiple concurrently executing
   programs or processes. At any given time, some or all of the program code to be executed can
   be resident in processing subsystem 504 and/or in storage media such as storage subsystem
15  504.
    [01731     Through suitable programming, processing subsystem 502 can provide various
    functionality for mobile device 500. For example, in some embodiments, processing
    subsystem 502 can execute an operating system (OS) 532 and various applications 534 such
    as a phone-interface application, a text-message-interface application, a media interface
20  application, a fitness application, and/or other applications. In some embodiments, some or
    all of these application programs can interact with a host device, e.g., by generating messages
    to be sent to the host device and/or by receiving and interpreting messages from the host
    device. In some embodiments, some or all of the application programs can operate locally to
   mobile device 500. For example, if mobile device 500 has a local media library stored in
25  storage subsystem 504, a media interface application can provide a user interface to select
    and play locally stored media items.
    10174]     Processing subsystem 502 can also execute a code for one or more components of
    device 404. For example, processing subsystem 502 can execute a notification manager code
    536 (which can be part of OS 532 or separate as desired). Execution of notification manager
30  code 536 can cause mobile device 500 to detect a new message and/or add, re-rank and/or
    remove one or more notifications to a notification board. Execution of notification manager
    code 536 can further cause a notification presentation center and/or alert manager to be
                                                    42

     WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
   notified of a notification. In some instances, notification manager 536 further includes code
   that, when executed, evaluates whether a particular message is to be forwarded to another
   device and/or coordinates any pre-forwarding processing of the message (e.g., by identifying
   a subscriber app to process the message).
 5 [01751     Processing subsystem 502 can also or alternatively execute a notification
   presentation-center code 537 (which can be part of OS 532 or separate as desired). Execution
   of notification presentation center code 537 can cause mobile device 500 to determine
   whether, when and/or how to present a visual notification corresponding to a notification
   and/or message. For example, execution can result in a determination as to where, on a
10 screen, a visual notification or visual notification indicator is to be presented on a screen
   and/or when a notification presentation is to be presented in a sequence of notification
   presentations.
   101761     Processing subsystem 502 can also or alternatively include an alert manager code
   538 (which can be part of OS 532 or separate as desired). Execution of alert manager code
15 538 can cause mobile device 500 to determine whether, when and/or how to present an alert
   (e.g., a non-visual alert) corresponding to a notification and/or message. In some instances,
   execution of alert manager code 538 can cause mobile device 500 to communicate with
   another device (e.g., a coordinating device). For example, a communication from the other
   device can include an invitation to present an alert and/or a communication to the other
20 device can identify a mode of mobile device 500 and/or whether an alert has been or will be
   presented.
   [0177]     RF (radio frequency) interface 508 can allow mobile device 500 to communicate
   wirelessly with various devices (e.g., a server or coordinating device). RF interface 508 can
   include RF transceiver components such as an antenna and supporting circuitry to enable data
25 communication over a wireless medium, e.g., using Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11 family standards),
   Bluetooth* (a family of standards promulgated by Bluetooth SIG, Inc.), or other protocols for
   wireless data communication. In some embodiments, RF interface 508 can implement a
   Bluetooth LE (Low energy) proximity sensor 509 that supports proximity detection through
   an estimation of signal strength and/or other protocols for determining proximity to another
30 electronic device. In some embodiments, RF interface 508 can provide near-field
   communication ("NEC") capability, e.g., implementing the ISO/lIEC 18092 standards or the
   like: NFC can support wireless data exchange between devices over a very short range (e.g.,
                                                     43

      WO 2015/183558                                                         PCT/US2015/030591
   20 centimeters or less). RF interface 508 can be implemented using a combination of
   hardware (e.g., driver circuits, antennas, modulators/demodulators, encoders/decoders, and
   other analog and/or digital signal processing circuits) and software components. Multiple
   different wireless communication protocols and associated hardware can be incorporated into
 5 RF interface 508.
    [01781   Connector interface 510 can allow mobile device 500 to communicate with various
   devices (e.g., a server or coordinating device) via a wired communication path, e.g., using
   Universal Serial Bus (USB), universal asynchronous receiver/transmitter (UART), or other
   protocols for wired data communication. In some embodiments, connector interface 510 can
10 provide a power port, allowing mobile device 500 to receive power, e.g., to charge an internal
   battery. For example, connector interface 510 can include a connector such as a mini-USB
   connector or a custom connector, as well as supporting circuitry. In some embodiments, the
   connector can be a custom connector that provides dedicated power and ground contacts, as
   well as digital data contacts that can be used to implement different communication
15 technologies in parallel; for instance, two pins can be assigned as USB data pins (D+ and D-)
   and two other pins can be assigned as serial transmit/receive pins (e.g., implementing a
   UART interface). The assignment of pins to particular communication technologies can be
   hardwired or negotiated while the connection is being established. In some embodiments, the
   connector can also provide connections for audio and/or video signals, which can be
20 transmitted to or from another device in analog and/or digital formats.
    [0179]   In some embodiments, connector interface 510 and/or RF interface 508 can be used
   to support synchronization operations in which data is transferred from a another device (e.g.,
   a coordinating device) to mobile device 500 (or vice versa). For example, a user can be able
   to customize settings and other information for mobile device 500. While user interface 506
25 can support data-entry operations, a user can find it more convenient to define customized
   information on a separate device (e.g., a tablet or smartphone) that has a larger interface (e.g.,
   including a real or virtual alphanumeric keyboard), then transfer the customized information
   to mobile device 500 via a synchronization operation. Synchronization operations can also be
   used to load and/or update other types of data in storage subsystem 504, such as media items,
30 application programs, personal data, and/or operating system program s. Synchronization
   operations can be performed in response to an explicit user request and/or automatically, e.g.,
   when wireless device 500 resumes communication with a particular host device or in
   response to either device receiving an update to its copy of synchronized information.
                                                   44

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
    [01801    Environmental sensors 514 can include various electronic, mechanical,
   electromechanical, optical, or other devices that provide information related to external
   conditions around mobile device 500. Sensors 514 in some embodiments can provide digital
   signals to processing subsystem 502, e.g., on a streaming basis or in response to polling by
 5 processing subsystem 502 as desired. Any type and combination of environmental sensors
   can be used; shown by way of example are accelerometer 542, a magnetometer 544, a
   gyroscope 546, and a GPS receiver 548.
    101811    Some environmental sensors can provide information about the location and/or
   motion of mobile device 500. For example, accelerometer 542 can sense acceleration
10 (relative to freefall) along one or more axes, e.g., using piezoelectric or other components in
   conjunction with associated electronics to produce a signal. Magnetometer 544 can sense an
   ambient magnetic field (e.g., Earth's magnetic field) and generate a corresponding electrical
   signal, which can be interpreted as a compass direction. Gyroscopic sensor 546 can sense
   rotational motion in one or more directions, e.g., using one or more MEMS
15 (micro-electro-mechanical systems) gyroscopes and related control and sensing circuitry.
   Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver 548 can determine location based on signals
   received from GPS satellites. In some instances, data detected from one or more
   environmental sensors can be used to identify a gesture indicative of particular input. For
   example, rather than using a touchscreen to select a notification action and/or dismiss an alert
20 or notification presentation, this information can be conveyed by a particular arm movement.
    [0182]    Other sensors can also be included in addition to or instead of these examples. For
   example, a sound sensor can incorporate microphone 526 together with associated circuitry
   and/or program code to determine, e.g., a decibel level of ambient sound. Temperature
   sensors, proximity sensors, ambient light sensors, or the like can also be included.
25  [01831    Strap sensors 516 can include various electronic, mechanical, electromechanical,
   optical, or other devices that provide information as to whether mobile device 500 is
   currently being worn. Data from the strap sensors and/or other sensors Can be used to infer
   whether mobile device 500 is being worn (e.g., by comparing one or more data values to a
   threshold). In some embodiments, certain features of mobile device 500 can be selectively
30 enabled or disabled depending on whether mobile device 500 is currently being worn
    [0184]    Power subsystem 512 can provide power and power management capabilities for
   mobile device 500. For example, power subsystem 514 can include a battery 540 (e.g., a
                                                   45

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   rechargeable battery) and associated circuitry to distribute power from battery 540 to other
   components of mobile device 500 that require electrical power. In some embodiments, power
   subsystem 5 12 can also include circuitry operable to charge battery 540, e.g., when connector
   interface 510 is connected to a power source. In some embodiments, power subsystem 512
 5 can include a "wireless" charger, such as an inductive charger, to charge battery 540 without
   relying on connector interface 510. In some embodiments, power subsystem 512 can also
   include other power sources, such as a solar cell, in addition to or instead of battery 540.
    101851    In some embodiments, power subsystem 512 can control power distribution to
   components within mobile device 500 to manage power consumption efficiently. For
10 example, power subsystem 512 can automatically place device 500 into a "hibernation" state
   when strap sensors 516 or other sensors indicate that device 500 is not being worn. The
   hibernation state can be designed to reduce power consumption; accordingly, user interface
   506 (or components thereof), RF interface 508, connector interface 510, and/or
   environmental sensors 514 can be powered down (e.g., to a low-power state or turned off
15 entirely), while strap sensors 516 are powered up (either continuously or at intervals) to
   detect when a user puts on mobile device 500. As another example, in some embodiments,
   while mobile device 500 is being worn, power subsystem 512 can turn display 520 and/or
   other components on or off depending on motion and/or orientation of mobile device 500
   detected by environmental sensors 514.
20  [01861    Power subsystem 512 can also provide other power management capabilities, such
   as regulating power consumption of other components of mobile device 500 based on the
   source and amount of available power, monitoring stored power in battery 540, generating
   user alerts if the stored power drops below a minimum level, and so on.
    [01871    In some embodiments, control functions of power subsystem 512 can be
25 implemented using programmable or controllable circuits operating in response to control
   signals generated by processing subsystem 502 in response to program code executing
   thereon, or as a separate microprocessor or microcontroller.
    101881    It will be appreciated that mobile device 500 is illustrative and that variations and
   modifications are possible. For example, strap sensors 516 can be modified (or eliminated),
30 and mobile device 500 can include a user-operable control (e.g., a button or switch) that the
   user can operate to provide input. Controls can also be provided, e.g., to turn on or off display
   520, mute or unmute sounds from speakers 522, etc. Mobile device 500 can include any types
                                                   46

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   and combination of sensors and in some instances can include multiple sensors of a given
   type.
    [0189]    In various enibodirnents, a user interface can include any combination of any or all
   of the components described above, as well as other components not expressly described. For
 5 exarnple, in some embodiments, the user interface can include, e.g., just a touchscreen, or a
   touchscreen and a speaker, or a touchscreen and a haptic device. Where the mobile device has
   an RF interface, a connector interface can be omitted, and all communication between the
   mobile device and other devices can be conducted using wireless communication protocols.
   A wired power connection, e.g., for charging a battery of the mobile device, can be provided
10 separately from any data connection.
    [01901    Further, while the mobile device is described with reference to particular blocks, it
   is to be understood that these blocks are defined for convenience of description and are not
   intended to imply a particular physical arrangement of component parts. Further, the blocks
   need not correspond to physically distinct components. Blocks can be configured to perform
15 various operations, e.g., by programming a processor or providing appropriate control
   circuitry, and various blocks might or might not be reconfigurable depending on how the
   initial configuration is obtained. Embodiments of the present invention can be realized in a
   variety of apparatus including electronic devices implemented using any combination of
   circuitry and software. It is also not required that every block in FIG. 5 be implemented in a
20 given embodiment of a mobile device.
    [01911    A coordinating device such as one or more of coordinating devices 215a-215c can
   be implemented as an electronic device using blocks similar to those described above (e.g.
   processors, storage media, user interface devices, data communication interfaces, etc.) and/or
   other blocks or components. FIG. 6 is a simplified block diagram of a coordinating device
25 600 (e.g., implementing one or more of coordinating devices 215a-215c) according to an
   embodiment of the present invention. Coordinating device 600 can include processing
   subsystem 602, storage subsystem 604, user interface 606, one or more connection
   components (e.g., RF interface 608 and/or a connector interface, which is not shown) power
   subsystem 612, and environmental sensors 614. Coordinating device 600 can also include
30 other components (not explicitly shown). Many of the components of coordinating device
   600 can be similar or identical to those of mobile device 500 of FIG. 5.
                                                    47

      WO 2015/183558                                                        PCT/US2015/030591
    [01921    For instance, storage subsystem 604 can be generally similar to storage subsystem
   504 and can include, e.g., using magnetic storage media, flash memory, other semiconductor
   memory (e.g., DRAM, SRAM), or an-y other non-transitory storage medium, or a
   combination of media, and can include volatile and/or non-volatile media. Like storage
 5 subsystem 504, storage subsystem 604 can be used to store data and/or program code to be
   executed by processing subsystem 602.
    [0193]    User interface 606 can include any combination of input and output devices. A user
   can operate input devices of user interface 606 to invoke the functionality of coordinating
   device 600 and can view, hear, and/or otherivise experience output from coordinating device
10 600 via output devices of user interface 606. Examples of output devices include display 620,
   speakers 622, and haptic output generator 624. Examples of input devices include
   microphone 626, touch sensor 628, and camera 629. These input and output devices can be
   similar to output devices described above with reference to FIG. 5.
    [0194]    Processing subsystem 602 can be implemented as one or more integrated circuits,
15 e.g,, one or more single-core or multi-core microprocessors or microcontrollers, examples of
   which are known in the art. In operation, processing system 602 can control the operation of
   coordinating device 600. In various embodiments, processing subsystem 602 can execute a
   variety of programs in response to program code and can maintain multiple concurrently
   executing programs or processes. At any given time, some or all of the program code to be
20 executed can be resident in processing subsystem 602 and/or in storage media such as storage
   subsystem 604.
    [0195]    Through suitable programming, processing subsystem 602 can provide various
   fnnctionality for coordinating device 600. For example, in some embodiments, processing
   subsystem 602 can execute an operating system (OS) 632 and various applications 634 such
25 as a phone-interface application, a text-message-interface application, a media interface
   application, a fitness application, and/or other applications. In some embodiments, some or
   all of these application programs can interact with a mobile device, e.g., by generating
   messages to be sent to the mobile device and/or by receiving and interpreting messages from
   the mobile device. In some embodiments, some or all of the application programs can operate
30 locally on coordinating device 600.
    [0196]    In some embodiments, processing subsystem 602 can execute one or more of a
   notification manager code 636, a notification presentation center code 637 and an alert
                                                   48

     WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   manager code 638 (each of which can be part of OS 632 or separate as desired). In some
   instances, one or more of these codes can operate similarly to or complementary to
   corresponding code stored on mobile device 500.
   101971     For example, execution of notification manager code 636 can cause coordinating
 5 device 600 to detect a new message (e.g., received from a server or other user device or
   locally generated) and/or add, re-rank and/or remove one or more notifications to a
   notification board. Execution of notification manager code 636 can further cause a
   notification presentation center and/or alert manager to be notified of a notification. Further,
   notification manager code 636 can include a distribution code that determines whether to
10 forward a notification and/or message to another device (e.g., mobile device 500), IFor
   example, execution of the distribution code can cause coordinating device 600 to determine
   whether an app corresponding to a message or notification is on a blacklist or has at least one
   distribution-handling subscriber. If not, the execution can cause the message or notification to
   be forwarded to one or more other devices.
15 [01981     As another example, execution of notification presentation center code 637 can
   cause coordinating device 600 to determine whether, when and/or how to present a visual
   notification presentation corresponding to a notification and/or message. For example,
   execution can result in a determination as to where a notification presentation or notification
   indicator is to be presented on a screen and/or where a notification presentation is to be
20 presented in a sequence of notification presentations.
   [01991     As yet another example, execution of alert manager code 638 can cause
   coordinating device 600 to determine whether, when and/or how to present an alert (e.g., a
   non-visual alert) corresponding to a notification and/or message. In some instances, execution
   of alert manager code 638 causes coordinating device 600 to communicate with another
25 device (e.g., a mobile device). For example, a communication from the other device can
   include a response to an invitation to present an alert and/or a communication to the other
   device can identify a mode of coordinating device 600, include an invitation to present an
   alert and/or identify whether an alert has been or will be presented.
   [02001     RF (radio frequency) interface 608 can allow coordinating device 600 to
30 communicate wirelessly with various other devices and networks. RF interface 608 can
   include RF transceiver components such as an antenna and supporting circuitry to enable data
   communication over a wireless medium, e.g., using cellular voice and/or data networks,
                                                   49

     WO 2015/183558                                                         PCT/US2015/030591
   Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11 family standards), Bluetooth" (a family of standards promulgated by
   Bluetooth SIG, Inc.), or other protocols for wireless data communication. In some
   embodiments, RF interface 608 can implement a Bluetooth LE (Low energy) proximity
   sensor 609 that supports proximity detection through an estimation of signal strength and/or
 5 other protocols for determining proximity to another electronic device. In some
   embodiments, RF interface 608 can provide near-field communication ("NFC") capability,
   e.g., implementing the ISO/1EC 18092 standards or the like; NFC can support wireless data
   exchange between devices over a very short range (e.g., 20 centimeters or less). RF interface
   608 can be implemented using a combination of hardware (e.g., driver circuits, antennas,
10 modulators/demodulators, encoders/decoders, and other analog and/or digital signal
   processing circuits) and software components. Multiple different wireless communication
   protocols and associated hardware can be incorporated into RF interface 608.
   102011     Environmental sensors 614 can include various electronic, mechanical,
   electromechanical, optical, or other devices that provide information related to external
15 conditions around coordinating device 600. Sensors 614 in some embodiments can provide
   digital signals to processing subsystem 602, e.g., on a streaming basis or in response to
   polling by processing subsystem 602 as desired. Any type and combination of environmental
   sensors can be used; shown by way of example is a GPS receiver 648. This sensor can
   operate similarly to the corresponding sensor in mobile device 500 described above. Other
20 sensors can also be included in addition to or instead of these examples, such as temperature
   sensors, proximity sensors, ambient light sensors, ambient sound (or noise) sensors, or the
   like.
   [02021     Power subsystem 612 can provide power and power management capabilities for
   coordinating device 600. For example, power subsystem 612 can include a battery 640 (e.g.,
25 a rechargeable battery) and associated circuitry to distribute power from battery 640 to other
   components of coordinating device 600 that require electrical power. In some embodiments,
   power subsystem 612 can also include circuitry operable to charge battery 640, e.g., when an
   electrical connector (not shown) is connected to a power source. In some embodiments,
   power subsystem 612 can include a "wireless" charger, such as an inductive charger, to
30 charge battery 640 without relying on a physical connector. In some embodiments, power
   subsystem 612 can also include other power sources, such as a solar cell, in addition to or
   instead of battery 640.
                                                  50

      WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
    [02031    In some embodiments, power subsystem 612 can control power distribution to
   components within coordinating device 600 to manage power consumption efficiently. For
   example, when coordinating device 600 is in an inactive state (not interacting with a user),
   power subsystem 612 can place device 600 into a low-power state, e.g., by powering off
 5 various components of user interface 606, RF interface 608, and/or environmental sensors
   614. Power subsystem 612 can also provide other power management capabilities, such as
   regulating power consumption of other components of coordinating device 600 based on the
   source and amount of available power, monitoring stored power in battery 640, generating
   user alerts if the stored power drops below a minimum level, and so on.
10  [02041    In some embodiments, control functions of power subsystem 612 can be
   implemented using programmable or controllable circuits operating in response to control
   signals generated by processing subsystem 602 in response to program code executing
   thereon, or as a separate microprocessor or microcontroller.
    [02051    It will be appreciated that coordinating device 600 is illustrative and that variations
15 and modifications are possible. In various embodiments, other controls or components can be
   provided in addition to or instead of those described above. Any device capable of interacting
   with another device (e.g.. mobile and/or mobile device) to facilitate pairing of proximate
   devices, to forward messages and/or to coordinate message alerts can be a coordinating
   device.
20  [02061    Further, while coordinating device 600 is described with reference to particular
   blocks, it is to be understood that these blocks are defined for convenience of description and
   are not intended to imply a particular physical arrangement of component parts. Further, the
   blocks need not correspond to physically distinct components. Blocks can be configured to
   perform various operations, e.g., by programming a processor or providing appropriate
25 control circuitry, and various blocks might or might not be reconfigurable depending on how
   the initial configuration is obtained. Embodiments of the present invention can be realized in
   a variety of apparatus including electronic devices implemented using any combination of
   circuitry and software. It is also not required that every block in FIG. 6 be implemented in a
   given embodiment of a coordinating device.
30  [02071    Communi cation between one or more mobile devices, one or more coordinating
   devices and a server can be implemented according to any communication protocol (or
   combination of protocols) that both devices are programmed or otherwise configured to use.
                                                    51

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   In some instances, standard protocols such as Bluetooth protocols can be used. In some
   instances, a custom message format and syntax (including, e.g., a set of rules for interpreting
   particular bytes or sequences of bytes in a digital data transmission) can be defined, and
   messages can be transmitted using standard serial protocols such as a virtual serial port
 5 defined in certain Bluetooth standards. Embodiments of the invention are not limited to
   particular protocols, and those skilled in the art with access to the present teachings will
   recognize that numerous protocols can be used.
    102081   In certain embodiments, an electronic device (e.g., device 500 or 600) may include
   one or more haptic modules for providing haptic feedback to the user. The embodiments
10 described herein may relate to or take the form of one or more haptic actuators suitable to
   provide perceivable haptic feedback. Such actuators may include an electromagnetic coil, a
   permanent magnet or other magnetic field source. The magnetic field may induce motion in a
   mass of the haptic actuator by exerting a Lorentz force on the mass when the coil is
   energized. A direction of current through the coil determines the direction of motion of the
15 mass, while the strength of the magnetic field determines the velocity of the mass and thus
   the magnitude of the haptic output.
    [0209]   In general, haptic actuators implemented in some embodiments may be configured
   to maximize or enhance resultant mechanical energy, given a very compact form factor of the
   electronic device.
20  [02101   In one embodiment, the haptic actuator may have a mass at least partially disposed
   within the coil when the mass is in a rest state. This mass may include two magnets of
   opposing polarities implemented as a magnet array affixed within a frame; the frame may
   provide extra weight to the mass and thus a stronger haptic output may be generated. A shaft
   may extend through the mass such that the mass may freely slide on the shaft.
25  [02111   The magnet array may generate a radial magnetic field that interacts with the
   magnetic field of the coil when the coil is energized by a current. The Lorentz force resulting
   from the interaction of the magnetic fields causes the mass to move along a shaft in a first
   direction. Reversing current flow through the coil reverses the Lorentz force. As a result,
   the magnetic field or force on the central magnet array is also reversed and the mass may
30 move in a second direction. Thus, mass may move in both directions along the shaft,
   depending on the direction of current flow through the coil. Passing an alternating current
   through the coil may cause the central magnet array to move back and forth along a shaft.
                                                    52

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   This motion mav induce a motion in the housing of the actuator, which in turn may induce a
   motion in the housing of the electronic device.
    [0212]   In order to prevent the central magnet array from being attracted to the shaft, which
   could increase friction between the two and thereby increase the force necessary to move the
 5 central magnet array and frame, the shaft may be formed from a non-ferritic material such as
   tungsten, titanium, stainless steel, or the like, and the mass may slide along the shaft on
   bearings.
    [0213]   The actuator also may have structures that provide restoring force to the mass. For
   example, a spring may be located at either end of the shaft. As the mass impacts the spring,
10 the spring compresses and stores kinetic energy. This kinetic energy may be released to
   return the mass along the shaft, thereby sending it to or near its initial starting position. The
   kinetic energy in the spring(s) may cooperate with the coil to move the magnet in such a
   fashion.
    102141   Although a linear actuator has been described herein, it should be appreciated that
15 other types of actuators may be used in different embodiments. For example, some
   embodiments may employ a rotary actuator, a piezoelectric actuator, or any other suitable
   linear or non-linear actuator. Likewise, certain embodiments may employ multiple actuators
   working in concert.
    102151   In certain embodiments, an electronic device (e.g., device 500 or 600) may include
20 one or more acoustic modules for transmitting and receiving acoustic energy. The acoustic
   module may be a speaker or microphone of an electronic device, as non-limiting examples.
    [02161   The device housing may include a first acoustic port that is coupled to the acoustic
   module. In some instances, the acoustic module is configured to function as either a
   microphone or a speaker element for the device. However, for the purposes of the fol lowing
25 description, the acoustic module is described as a speaker element or module. The acoustic
   port includes first and second orifices that facilitate the transmission of audible signals from
   athe coustic module to the user's ear. In this example, the orifices extend through the
   housing and acoustically connect internal components of the acoustic module with the
   external environment. In other examples, a single acoustic port may include more than two
30 orifices or a single orifice. In some embodiments, the acoustic port may also include a
   housing structure ("umbrella"), screen mesh or other protective element configured to inhibit
   ingress of liquid or other foreign matter.
                                                     53

      WO 2015/183558                                                         PCT/US2015/030591
    [02171   The umbrella structure generally prevents water or fluid from directly impacting the
   acoustic module. In one example, the acoustic port includes one or more orifices or openings
   that are offset with respect to an acoustic chamber of the module (e.g., the space between
   umbrella and mesh and including the one or more orifices. The umbrella structure may be
 5 formed into the outer surface of the case or housing. For example, the umbrella structure
   may be formed from the material located between two or more orifices or openings that are
   offset with respect to the acoustic chamber.
    102181   Further, certain embodiments may shape the acoustic chamber to reduce the
   likelihood that water accumulates in the chamber or other portion of the orifice. A screen
10 may separate the acoustic cavity from the external environment and may impede the ingress
   of liquids or other foreign material from the external environment into the acoustic cavity.
   For example, the sidewalls of the orifice(s) may extend substantially to the surface of the
   screen in order to reduce surface tension of water in the orifice or chamber. Likewise, an
   exterior of the orifice may be chamfered to reduce surface tension of a liquid adjacent the
15 orifice and thus facilitate liquid removal.
    [02191   In the present example, the acoustic module is a speaker module. A speaker
   acoustic module inay include various components for producing and transmitting sound,
   including a diaphragm, a voice coil, a center magnet, and side magnets/coils. In a typical
   implementation, the diaphragm is configured to produce sound waves or an acoustic signal in
20 response to a stimulus signal in the voice coil. That is, a modulated stimulus signal in the
   voice coil causes movement of the diaphragm. Movement of the diaphragm creates sound
   waves, which propagate through the acoustic cavity of acoustic module and eventually out
   the port to the exterior environment. In some cases, the acoustic cavity functions as an
   acoustical resonator having a shape and size that is configured to amplify and/or dampen
25 sound waves produced by movement of the diaphragm.
    [02201   In certain embodiments, the acoustic module also includes structural support
   elements, such as an end wall and base. These elements may provide physical support for the
   speaker elements; various yokes, connectors and the like may also provide such support.
   Certain other embodiments may include a gasket to seal the interior of the device against the
30 environment. It should be appreciated that the structure recited herein is meant as an example
   and not a limitation. For example, in alternative embodiments, the acoustic cavity may be
   formed from additional components or may be formed front a single component.
                                                   54

     WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   [02211     The acoustic module described above is provided as one example of a type of
   speaker acoustic module; other embodiments may use different types of speakers,
   microphones and the like. Further, although described in the context of a speaker, the
   foregoing is equally applicable to a microphone and many embodiments may likewise
 5 incorporate a microphone.
   [02221     Embodiments described herein may take the form of, be incorporated in, or operate
   with a suitable electronic device. One example of such a device is shown in FIG. 7 and takes
   the forn of a wearable mechanism. As shown, the mechanism may be worn on a user's wrist
   and secured thereto by a band. The mechanism may have a variety of functions including,
10 but not limited to: keeping time; monitoring a user's physiological signals and providing
   health-related information based on those signals; communicating (in a wired or wireless
   fashion) with other electronic devices, which may be different types of devices having
   different functionalities; providing alerts to a user, which may include audio, haptic, visual
    id/or other sensory output, any or all of which may be synchronized with one another;
15 visually depicting data on a display; gather data form one or more sensors that may be used to
   initiate, control, or modify operations of the device; determine a location of a touch on a
   surface of the device and/or an amount of force exerted on the device, and use either or both
   as input; accepting voice input to control one or more functions; accepting tactile input to
   control one or more functions; and so on.
20 [02231     Alternative embodiments of suitable electronic devices include a phone; a tablet
   computing device; a portable media player; and so on. Still other suitable electronic devices
   may include laptop/notebook computers, personal digital assistants, touch screens, input
   sensitive pads or surfaces, and so on.
   [02241     FIG. 8 depicts an example schematic diagram of a wearable electronic device. As
25 shown in FIG. 8, the device 700 includes one or more processing units 761 that are
   configured to access a memory 762 having instructions stored thereon. The instructions or
   computer programs may be configured to perform one or more of the operations or functions
   described with respect to the device 700. For example, the instructions may be configured to
   control or coordinate the operation of the various components of the device. Such
30 components include, but are not limited to, display 702, one or more input/output components
   763, one or more comnmunication channels 764, one or more sensors 765, a speaker 706,
   microphone 707, and/or one or more haptic feedback devices 766. In some embodiments the
                                                    55

      WO 2015/183558                                                         PCT/US2015/030591
   speaker and microphone may be combined into a single unit and/or may share a common port
   through a housing of the device.
    [02251    The processing units 716 of FIG. 8 may be implemented as any electronic device
   capable of processing, receiving, or transmitting data or instructions. For example, the
 5 processing units 716 may include one or more of: a microprocessor, a central processing unit
   (CPU), an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC), a digital signal processor (DSP), or
   combinations of such devices. As described herein, the term "processor" is meant to
   encompass a single processor or processing unit, multiple processors, multiple processing
   units, or other suitably configured computing element or elements.
10  [02261    In some embodiments the electronic device may accept a variety of bands, straps, or
   other retention mechanisms (collectively, "bands"). These bands may be removably
   connected to the electronic device by a lug that is accepted in a recess or other aperture
   within the device and locks thereto. The lug may be part of the band or may be separable
   (and/or separate) from the band. Generally, the lug may lock into the electronic device's
15 recess and thereby maintain connection between the band and device. The user may release a
   locking mechanism to permit the lug to slide or otheivise move out of the recess. In some
   embodiments, the recess may be formed in the band and the lug may be affixed or
   incorporated into the device.
    [02271    A user may change combinations of bands and electronic devices, thereby
20 pennitting mixing and matching of the two categories. It should be appreciated that devices
   having other forms and/or functions may include similar recesses and may releasably mate
   with a lug and/or band incorporating a lug. In this fashion, an ecosystem of bands aid
   devices may be envisioned, each of which is compatible with another. A single band may be
   used to connect to devices, as one further example; in such embodiments the band may
25 include electrical interconnections that permit the two devices to transmit signals to one
   another and thereby interact with one another.
    [0228]    In many embodiments, the electronic device may keep and display time, essentially
   functioning as a wristwatch among other things. Time may be displayed in an analog or
   digital format, depending on the device, its settings, and (in some cases) a user's preferences.
30 Typically, time is displayed on a digital display stack forming part of the exterior of the
   device.
                                                   56

      WO 2015/183558                                                         PCT/US2015/030591
    [02291    The display stack may include a cover element, such as a cover glass, overlying a
   display. The cover glass need not necessarily be formed from glass, although that is an
   option; it may be formed from sapphire, zirconia, alumina, chemically strengthened glass,
   hardened plastic and so on. Likewise, the display may be a liquid crystal display, an organic
 5 light-emitting diode display, or any other suitable display technology. Among other
   elements, the display stack may include a backlight in some embodiments.
    [0230]    The device also may comprise one or more touch sensors to determine a location of
   a touch on the cover glass. A touch sensor may be incorporated into or on the display stack
   in order to determine a location of a touch. The touch sensor may be self-capacitive in
10 certain embodiments, mutual -capacitive in others, or a combination thereof.
    [02311    Similarly, the device may include a force sensor to determine an amount of force
   applied to the cover glass. The force sensor may be a capacitive sensor in some embodiments
   and a strain sensor in other embodiments. In either embodiment, the force sensor is generally
   transparent and made form transparent materials, or is located beneath or away from the
15 display in order not to interfere with the view of the display. The force sensor may, for
   example, take the form of two capacitive plates separated by silicone or another deformable
   material. As the capacitive plates move closer together under an external force, the change in
   capacitance may be measured and a value of the external force correlated from the
   capacitance change. Further, by comparing relative capacitance changes from multiple points
20 on the force sensor, or from multiple force sensors, a location or locations at which force is
   exerted may be determined. In one embodiment the force sensor may take the form of a
   gasket extending beneath the periphery of the display. The gasket may be segmented or
   unitary, depending on the embodiment.
    [02321    The electronic device may also provide alerts to a user. An alert may be generated
25 in response to: a change in status of the device (one example of which is power running low');
   receipt of information by the device (such as receiving a message); communications between
   the device and another mechanism/device (such as a second type of device informing the
   device that a message is waiting or communication is in progress); an operational state of an
   application (such as, as part of a game, or when a calendar appointment is imminent) or the
30 operating system (such as when the device powers on or shuts down); and so on. The number
   and types of triggers fbr an alert are various and far-ranging.
                                                   57

     WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   [02331    The alert may be auditory, visual, haptic, or a combination thereof. A haptic
   actuator may be housed within the device and may move linearly to generate haptic output
   (although in alternative embodiments the haptic actuator may be rotary or any other type). A
   speaker may provide auditory components of an alert and the aforementioned display may
 5 provide visual alert components. In some embodiments a dedicated light, display, or other
   visual output component may be used as part of an alert.
   [0234]    The auditory, haptic and/or visual components of the alert may be synchronized to
   provide an overall experience to a user. One or more components may be delayed relative to
   other components to create a desired synchronization between them. The components may
10 be synchronized so that they are perceived substantially simultaneously; as one example, a
   haptic output may be initiated slightly before an auditory output since the haptic output may
   take longer to be perceived than the audio. As another example, a haptic output (or portion
   thereof) may be initiated substantially before the auditory output but at a weak or even
   subliminal level, thereby priming the wearer to receive the auditory output.
15 [02351    The example electronic device may communicate with other electronic devices
   either through a wired connection or wirelessly. Data may be passed between devices,
   permitting one device to relay information to another; control another; eiploy another's
   sensors, outputs, and/or inputs; and so on. FIG. 9 depicts a user 810 wearing a sample
   electronic device 700 with a second electronic device 730 in his pocket. Data may be
20 wirelessly transmitted between the electronic devices 700, 730, thereby permitting the user
   810 to receive, view, and interact with data from the second device 730 by means of the first
   electronic device 700. Thus, the user 810 may have access to part or all of the second
   device's functionality through the first electronic device 700 without actually needing to
   interact directly with the second device.
25 [02361    Further, the electronic devices 700, 730 may cooperate not only to share data but to
   share functionality as well. For example, one of the two devices may incorporate a sensor,
   application, or function that the other lacks. The electronic device lacking such capabilities
   may request them from the other device, which may share wirelessly with the requesting
   device. Thus, multiple devices may operate together to provide expanded functions,
30 software, access and the like between the two and ultimately to a user. As one non-limiting
   example, the electronic device 700 may be unable to place or receive telephone calls while
   the second device 730 may be able to do so. A user may nonetheless make and/or receive
                                                   58

      WO 2015/183558                                                        PCT/US2015/030591
   calls through the first device 700, which may employ the second device 730 to actually place
   or accept a call.
    [0237]   As another non-limiting example, an electronic device 700 may wirelessly
   communicate with a sales terminal nearby, thus permitting a user to quickly and efficiently
 5 conduct a transaction such as selling, buying, or returning a good. The electronic device may
   use near field communications technology to perform these and other functions.
    [02381   As mentioned above, a band may be connected to two electronic devices and may
   serve as a wired communication path between the two. As another example, the devices may
   communicate wirelessly, thereby permitting one device to relay information from a second to
10 a user. This latter example may be particularly useful when the second is inaccessible.
    [02391    Certain enbodiments may incorporate one or more biometric sensors to measure
   certain physiological characteristics of a user. The device may include a photoplesymogram
   sensor to determine a user's heart rate or blood oxygenation levels, for example. The device
   may also or instead include electrodes to measure the body impedance of a user, which may
15 permit the device to estimate body fat percentages, the body's electrical activity, body
   impedance, and so on. Also include blood pressure, ultraviolet exposure, etc. Depending on
   the sensors incorporated into or associated with the electronic device, a variety of user
   characteristics may be measured and/or estimated, thereby permitting different health
   information to be provided to a user.
20  [02401    Certain embodiments may be wirelessly charged. For example, an inductive
   charging base may transmit power to an inductive receiver within the device in order to
   charge a battery of the device. Further, by varying the inductive field between the device and
   base, data may be communicated between the two. As one simple non-limiting example, this
   may be used to wake the base from a low-power sleep state to an active charging state when
25 the device is placed on the base. Other wireless charging systems also may be used (e.g.,
   near field magnetic resonance and radio frequency). Alternatively, the device also may
   employ wired charging through electrodes.
    [02411   In certain embodiments, the device may include a rotary input, which may take the
   form of a crown with a stem. The crown and stem may be rotated to provide the rotary input.
30 Rotation of the stem and/or crown may be sensed optically, electrically, mnagnetically, or
   mechanically. Further, in some embodiments the crown and stem may also move laterally,
   thereby providing a second type of input to the device.
                                                   59

     WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
   [02421    The electronic device may likewise include one or more buttons. The button(s) may
   be depressed to provide yet another input to the device. In various embodiments, the button
   may be a dome switch, rocker switch, electrical contact, magnetic switch, and so on. In some
   embodiments the button may be waterproof or otheiise sealed against the environment.
 5 [02431    Various embodiments may include or otherwise incorporate one or more motion
   sensors. A motion sensor may' detect motion of the device and provide, modify, cease, or
   otherwise affect a state, output, or input of the device or associated applications based on the
   motion. As non-limiting examples, a motion may be used to silence the device or
   acknowledge an alert generated by the device. Sample motion sensors include
10 accelerometers, gyroscopic sensors, magnetometers, GPS sensors, distance sensors, and so
   on. Some embodiments may use a GPS sensor to facilitate or enable location and/or
   navigation assistance.
   102441    As shown in FIG. 8, the device 700 may also include one or more acoustic
   elements, including a speaker 706 and/or a microphone 707. The speaker 706 may include
15 drive electronics or circuitry and may be configured to produce an audible sound or acoustic
   signal in response to a command or input. Similarly, the microphone 707 may also include
   drive electronics or circuitry and is configured to receive an audible sound or acoustic signal
   in response to a command or input. The speaker 706 and the microphone 707 may be
   acoustically coupled to port or opening in the case that allows acoustic energy to pass, but
20 may prevent the ingress of liquid and other debris.
   [02451     Certain embodiments may incorporate an ambient light sensor. The ambient light
   sensor may permit the device to sense a brightness of its environment and adjust certain
   operational parameters accordingly. For example, the electronic device may modify a
   brigihtness of a display in response to the sensed ambient light. As another example, the
25 electronic device may turn the display off if little or no light is sensed for a period of time.
   [02461    These and other functions, operations, and abilities of the electronic device will be
   apparent upon reading the specification in its entirety.
   [0247]    FIG. 10 is a flow diagramn of a process 1000 for receiving a message and performing
   appropriate responsive actions in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Part or all
30 of process 1000 can be implemented in a coordinating device and/or a mobile device.
                                                    60

     WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   [02481     Process 1000 can begin at block 1005 where a signal can be received from a source.
   The source can be, e.g., a server, a coordinating device, a mobile device, etc. In some
   instances, the source is a component of a device performing part or all of process 1000. The
   signal can identify a new message. The message can include, for example, a message from a
 5 person (e.g., a text message or message from a social network), a message identifying an
   event (e.g., a news story, a price change, a task completion, or a weather forecast), a message
   identifying an upcoming or current appointment or task, and so on. The message can be
   associated with an app (e.g., such that execution of the app had requested the message or
   connected a device executing part or all of process 1000 with another device or server). The
10 signal can, for example, include the message, identify an associated app, identi     a party
   (e.g., user) associated with the message, and/or identify a time of the message.
   102491     At block 1010, an app associated with the new message can be identified, The app
   can be identified based on, for example, an identifier of an app in the message, an identifier
   of a source in the message and/or a source of the message.
15 [02501     At block 1015, a notification can be generated based on the signal, and the
   notification can be added to a notification board. The notification can include any electronic
   representation of the message, and the notification board can include any structure to
   organize, package or manage one or more such notifications. The notification can include, for
   example, part or all of the message, a time (e.g.. that the message was received or notification
20 was generated), an identifier of a source of the message, an identifier of app corresponding to
   the message, a priority of the message, an expiration time for the message and/or notification
   and/or allowable actions. Adding the notification to the notification board can include
   ranking the notification relative to other notifications in the board.
   [02511     A determination can be made at block 1020 as to whether to forward the message
25 (or processed version thereof) to one or more other devices. The one or more other devices
   can include, for example, paired devices, other devices associated with a same user account
   (elg., for an operating system, a service, an app, an email account, or a social networking
   account) as is associated with a device performing all or part of process 1000, and/or one or
   more devices identified in a locally or remotely stored list (e.g., which can also identify the
30 device that is performing all or part of process 1000).
   [02521     This determination can depend on the app identified at block 1010. In one instance,
   a default is to forward the message to the one or more other devices unless a condition is met.
                                                    61

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   The condition can include, for example, the app being on a forwarding blacklist and/or the
   app being associated with a distribution-handling subscriber.
    [0253]    If it is determined that the message is to be forwarded, process 1000 can continue to
   block 1025 where the message (or processed version thereof) can be forwarded to the one or
 5 more other devices. Forwarding the message can include, for example, transmitting the
   received signal to the one or more other devices or transmitting a processed version of the
   signal to the one or more other devices. The processed version can include part or all of the
   message and/or the generated notification. The processed version can include additional
   and/or different data as compared to the received message, and/or the processed version can
10 be a reduced version where some of the data present in the received signal is not in the
   processed version. The message can be foirarded over a network (e.g., a wireless network),
   such as over the Internet or over a short-range (e.g., Bluetooth) connection. In some
   instances, different networks can be used to forward the message to different devices, and/or
   different processed versions of the message can be forwarded to different devices (e.g., the
15 different versions corresponding to different features of the devices).
    [02541    At block 1030, it can be determined as to whether to present an alert corresponding
   to the message. This determination can be based on whether a device performing part or all of
   process 1000 is in a do-not-disturb mode. Such a mode can be on with a result of, for
   example: blocking of all audio and/or haptic alerts, blocking of all audio and/or haptic alerts
20 corresponding to phone calls and text messages, blocking of all audio and/or haptic alerts
   when the device is locked, blocking of all audio and/or haptic alerts corresponding to phone
   calls and text messages when the device is locked, blocking of select audio and/or haptic
   alerts, blocking of select audio and/or haptic alerts corresponding to phone calls and text
   messages, blocking of select audio and/or haptic alerts when the device is locked, and/or
25 blocking of select audio and/or haptic alerts corresponding to phone calls and text messages
   when the device is locked. In some instances, when the device is in do-not-disturb mode, the
   determination at block 1030 can be that an alert corresponding to the message is not to be
   presented.
    [0255]    The determination can also or alternatively be based on, for example, whether a
30 proximate condition is satisfied for one or more other devices. The one or more other devices
   can include, fbr example, a device paired to a device performing all or part of process 1000, a
   device associated with a same user account (e.g., for an operating system, a service, an app,
                                                    62

      WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
   an email account, or a social net working account) as is a device performing all or part of
   process 1000, arid/or a device identified in a locally or remotely stored list (e.g., which can
   also identify the device that is performing all or part of process 1000). The proximate
   condition can include, for example, determining whether a device performing all or part of
 5 process 1000 is: within a threshold distance from one or more of the other devices, paired
   with one or more of the other devices, and/or sharing a network (e.g., an Internet account)
   with one or more of the other devices).
    102561    When evaluation of the proximate condition indicates that no other devices are near
   the device performiing part or all of process 1000 ("near" as defined by the condition), a
10 determination can be made to present the alert on the device. When it is determined that the
   proximate condition is satisfied, a set of devices can be defined to include the device
   performing all or part of process 1000 and the one or more other devices determined to be
   proximate to the device. Within this set, a portion of the devices (e.g., a single device) can be
   selected to present the alert. The selection can be based on, for example, a mode of each of
15 one or more devices in the set (e.g., to bias the selection towards devices in an active mode)
   and/or a device priority (e.g., to bias the selection towards coordinating devices over mobile
   devices).
    102571    The determination can also or alternatively be based on whether another device
   (e.g., a device or higher priority or a mobile device) is detected to be in a particular mode
20 (e.g., an active mode or worn mode). Such detection can occur as a result of receiving a
   message from the other device or an intermediate device (e.g., a server) identifying the other
   device's mode or an indication as to whether it is in the particular mode. For example, a
   device performing all or part of process 1000 can determine that an alert is not to be
   presented when a message is received indicating that it is inferred (e.g., based on sensor
25 readings) that an associated mobile device is being worn.
    [02581    In some instances, the determination at block 1030 can depend on other factors,
   such as whether a recent device movement variable (eg., to bias selection towards a device
   that has recently moved and/or to inhibit alert presentation amongst a device that has not
   moved for at least a threshold period of time).
30  [02591    If it is determined that the alert is to be presented, process 1000 can continue to
   block 1035 where the alert can be presented. The alert can include a stimulus to quickly
   notify a user of the message. In some instances, the alert is non-visual, such as an audio
                                                       63

      WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
   signal (e.g., tone or ringtone) or a haptic stimulus (e.g., a vibration). In some instances, the
   alert is visual, such as a flash on a screen, turning a screen from off to on, increasing a
   screen's brightness or presenting an icon. In some instances, a message content and/or
   associated app is not identifiable based on the alert. When it is determined that an alert is to
 5 be presented, the alert can be presented irrespective of whether any user input corresponding
   to a request for information was received. Thus, the alert can be presented even if a user does
   not have a particular app open, did not affirmative answer or open a message, and/or - in
   some instances - unlock and/or interact with a screen of the device.
    [02601     At blocks 1040-1045., it can be determined whether to present a notification
10 presentation for the message, such as a visual notification presentation. This determination
   can be based on, e.g.., whether a notification is pending or has already been closed and/or
   whether the device performing part or all of process 1000 is in an active mode. Specifically,
   at block 1040, it can be determined whether a notification corresponding to the new message
   is or is to be closed (or, conversely, whether it remains pending). A notification can be
15 closed, e.g., upon determining that an expiration time for a message or corresponding
   notification or notification has passed or upon receiving information from another device
   indicating that the notification is to be closed. For example, the information can be received
   upon another device having presented a same or similar notification presentation for the
   message or upon detecting particular user input (e.g., dismissing the notification, viewing the
20 message or postponing the notification). In response to an affirmative determination at block
    1040, process 1000 can conclude until another signal identifying another message is received.
    102611     In response to a determination that a notification corresponding to the new message
   is not closed (and instead remains pending), process 1000 can continue to decision block
    1045 where it can be determined whether a device performing part or all of process 1000 is in
25 an active mode. This determination can include, for example, determining whether a screen
   of the device is on, whether user input has been received via an interface of the device within
   a threshold time period, whether the device is unlocked, whether it is detected that the device
   is being worn and/or whether one or more apps are being run on the device. It will be
   appreciated that a definition of "active mode" can vary, e.g., across device types.
30  [02621     When it is determined that the device is in an active mode, a notification
   presentation for the message can be presented. Presenting the notification presentation can
   include visually presenting the presentation on part or all of a device screen. The notification
                                                     64

     WO 2015/183558                                                             PCT/US2015/030591
   presentation can include part or all of a message (e.g., a subject), a source, an identifier of
   another user associated with the message (e.g., a name, user name, email address or phone
   number), an associated app, a time, a priority ranking, and/or one or more potential actions
   (e.g., to open the associated app, to view the full message, to respond to the message, to
 5 dismiss the notification and/or to postpone the notification).
   [02631     When it is determined that the device is not in active mode (e.g., that a screen of the
   device is on), process 1000 can return to block 1040. Blocks 1040-1045 can be repeated until
   it is determined that the notification is closed or the device is in an active mode.
   102641     It will be appreciated that process 1000 need not performed in entirety and a
10 particular implementation of process 1000 can depend on, e.g., a type of device, user
   preferences, message type, device mode, etc. For example, blocks 1020-1025 can be removed
   from process 1000 for particular device types (e.g.. wearable devices). As another example,
   in one instance, a notification need not be generated at block 1015 (elg., if the signal received
   at block 1005 includes the notification). It will also be appreciated that blocks in process
15 1000 need not be performed in the depicted order. For example, in one instance, blocks 1020
   1025 can be performed after blocks 1030-1050.
   [02651     It will further be appreciated that, in some instances, different portions of process
   1000 (or any other process disclosed herein) can be handled by different software, device
   components or devices. For example, in some instances, a daemon performs some or all of
20 blocks 1015-1050, and in some embodiments a plugin performs some or all of blocks 1015
    1050. Appropriate handling can, in some instances, depend on the app identified as being
   associated with the message. For example, a daemon may determine that a processed version
   of a first message of a first app is to be forwarded and may process the first message and
   forward the processed first message; meanwhile, a phigin may detennine that a processed
25 version of a second message of a second app is to be forwarded and may process the second
   message and forward the processed second message.
   [0266]     As illustrated in FIG. 10 and the corresponding description, multiple determinations
   relating to a message can depend on a mode of each of one or more devices. For example,
   each of the determination at block 1030 as to whether to present a (e.g., non-visual) alert for a
30 message and a determination as to whether to present a notification presentation for a
   message can depend on a mode of a device performing process 1000. When multiple mode
   assessments are performed (e.g., to determine whether to present an alert and also to
                                                     65

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   determine whether to present a notification presentation, the assessments may, or may not, be
   of a same time. For example, in one instance, it can be determined that a device is both to
   present an audio alert and a visual notification for a message if the screen of the device is on
   (e.g., but not otheivise). As another example, an alert-presentation rule can indicate that a
 5 device is only to present an alert for a message if it's screen is on and if an invitation is
   received from another device to present the alert, whereas a notification-presentation rule can
   indicate that the device is to present a notification presentation for the message if the screen is
   on. As yet another example, it can be detennined that a device is to present a visual
   notification for a message when the screen is on, but that it is to present an audio or haptic
10 alert for the message when the screen is on and the device is not in a do-not-disturb mode.
    [02671    Process 1000 can exemplify how a single device can perform a variety of actions
   and/or action combinations depending on circumstances. For example, a single device can
   forward a first message associated with an app but neither present an alert for the message
   nor present a notification presentation for the message. The same device can later forward a
15 second message associated with a same or different app and also present an alert for the
   message.
    [0268]    FIG. 11 is a flow diagram of a process 1100 for determining whether to forward a
   message to another device in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Part or all of
   process 1100 can be implemented in a coordinating device. Process 1100 can begin at block
20  1105 where a coordinating device can register with a server or other device. The server can
   include one hosting a server application corresponding to an app on the coordinating device
   and/or one hosting an operating system, one managing cross-device accounts.
    102691    At block 1110, a first signal can be received from the server or other device. The
   first signal can identify a new message. For example, the new message can include one
25 associated with an app hosted by the server. The new message can include one generated
   based on, for example, events (e.g., news, financial markets, a current grade, weather,
   software update availability or promotions) and/or a communication (eg., identifying a
   message, an SMS message, an email, a phone call, a photo, a video, a link and/or an audio
   clip) from a device associated with a different user from one associated with the coordinating
30 device.
    [02701    A notification corresponding to the new message can be added to a notification
   board of the coordinating device at block 1115. Block 1115 can parallel block 1015 in
                                                    66

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   process 1000. An app associated with the message can be identified at block 1120. Block
    1120 can parallel block 1010 in process 1000.
    [0271]    At block 1125, it can be determined whether the app is identified on a blacklist.
   When the app is not identified on the blacklist, process 1100 can continue to block 1130
 5 where it can be determined whether the app has one or more subscribers for handling
   forwarding of messages.
    [02721    The blacklist and/or any subscriber identifications can be stored locally on the
   coordinating device or remotely stored (e.g., such that the coordinating device can then
   communicate with a remote device to request the blacklist or subscriber identification or
10 information as to whether a particular app is on the blacklist or has a distribution-handling
   subscriber). In some instances, the blacklist and/or subscriber identifications can be
   constructive in that the information can be built based on a combination of stored data. For
   example, data associated with individual app files can separately indicate whether each app is
   blacklisted.
15  [02731    Which apps are on the blacklist and/or apps' subscribers can be fixed or dynamic
   (e.g., such that apps can dynamically be added to or removed from the blacklist, and/or such
   that whether an app has a subscriber can change and/or subscriber identities can change). The
   blacklist and/or a subscriber list for one or more apps can be defined, in part or in whole, by a
   developer of an operating system on the coordinating device, a developer of each of one or
20 more apps and/or a user of the coordinating device. Whether an app is present on a blacklist
   or has a distribution-handling subscriber can depend on a person's decision (e.g., a user
   input) arid/or one or more factors pertaining to the app. One example of a factor is whether a
   limit is to be imposed as to which devices (or device types) are to receive messages for the
   app and/or how devices are to receive the messages. Such limits can be based on, for
25 example, device capabilities (e.g., a processing power or whether the app is downloaded on
   the device), privacy restrictions associated with the app) and/or cross-device applicability of
   messages associated with the app. Another example of a factor is a target latency for
   delivering messages. Rather than relying on message forwarding, diverging message
   transmission from the server to multiple devices can have the potential to hasten a speed at
30 which each device receives the message.
    [02741    When the app neither is on the blacklist nor has one or more subscribers for
   handling message distribution, process 1100 can continue to block 1135 where a second
                                                   67

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   signal identifying the new message is generated. The second signal can be the same as and/or
   can include part or all of the data of the first signal. The second signal can include part or all
   of the new message and/or the generated notification. The second signal can include an
   identifier of the coordinating device. The second signal can include an indication as to how
 5 the message is being sent (e.g., over a short-range network or not). The second signal can
   include an identification of the app associated with the message.
    [0275]    In some instances, second signal can be at least partly reduced relative to the first
   signal in that some of the data in the first signal can be excluded from the second signal. This
   reduction can be performed based on, for example, information known about a receiving
10 device (e.g., to exclude signal data include for a device with another characteristic). The
   reduction can be performed by using a compression technique. In some instances, part or all
   of a message is excluded from the second signal. The reduced signal can still indicate that a
   new message was received and can allow a receiving device to alert a user of the message. If
   a user then requests to view the message, the receiving device can then retrieve it.
15  [0276]    At block 1140, the second signal can be forwarded to one or more devices. The one
   or more devices can include one or more mobile devices, which can include (for example)
   one(s) paired to the coordinating device and/or associated with a same user account as
   associated with the coordinating the device. The transmission can occur over one or more
   networks, such as the Internet or a short-range connection (e.g., Bluetooth or BTLE).
20  [02771    When it is determined that the app either is on the blacklist or has a subscriber for
   handling message forwarding, process 1100 can continue to block 1145 where a second
   signal identifying the new message is not transmitted to tlie mobile device. Thus, in some
   instances, the mobile device may not receive the message or can receive it from another
   source.
25  [02781    While process 1100 includes an evaluation of two conditions to determine whether
   to forward a message, it will be appreciated that other embodiments can include a different
   number of conditions and/or different conditions. For example, a condition can depend on a
   proximity of the coordinating device to another device. In one instance, block 1130 can be
   removed from process 1100.
30  [02791    In some instances, a subscriber app is one to handle distribution of a message to one
   or more other devices. In such cases, a notification distribution module need not perform its
   routine distribution functions. In some instances, a subscriber app is one to process a message
                                                     68

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   prior to a transmission to another device. For example, the subscriber app may generate a
   summary or compressed version of the message.
    [0280]    FIG. 12 is a flow diagram of a process 1200 for enabling a subscribing app to
   process a message prior to forwarding the message to another device in accordance with an
 5 embodiment of the invention. Part or all of process 1200 can be implemented in a
   coordinating device.
    [02811    At block 1205, a message can be detected. Detecting the message can include
   detecting receipt of the message from, for example, a server or other device (e.g., associated
   with a shared user account or a paired device) or detecting a locally generated the message
10 (e.g., the message having been generated using an app installed on or executing on a device
   performing part or all of process 1200). The message can include received content (e.g.,
   originating from another user or source) and/or can represent an occurrence of an event.
    [0282]    At block 1210, an app (or plugin) associated with the message can be identified.
   The app can be one at least partly responsible for having generated the message or
15 transmitted it to a device performing process 1200. The app can be identified, for example,
   based on a source of the message or content in the message (e.g., identifying the app).
    [02831    At block 1215, an app (or plugin) subscribed to process the message can be
   identified. The subscriber app can be identified by, for example, querying a subscriber
   structure with an identifier of the app identified at block 1210, an identifier of a source of the
20 message (e.g., an identifier of another device), with a characteristic of the message (e.g., a
   message type) or with an identifier of the message (or using the identifier of the app
   identified at block 1210, the characteristic of the message or the identifier of the message to
   look up the app subscribed to process the message). For example, a subscriber structure can
   associate a particular server with a particular app, such that all messages from that server are
25 to be processed by the particular app. In some instances, the message can include an identifier
   of the subscriber app. In some instances, the app (or plugin) identified at block 1215 is the
   same as the app (or plugin) identified at block 1210. In some instances, they are different.
    [0284]    At block 1220, the app identified at block 1215 can be enabled to locally process the
   message. For example, the message can be availed for local (or, in some instances, remote)
30 processing by the subscriber app by, e.g., sending the message to a processing module for the
   subscriber app and/or by initiating execution of the subscriber app. The processing can be
   performed according to a processing protocol, which can include a protocol for, for example,
                                                    69

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   generating a summary for the message (e.g., removing content that is common across
   messages of a given type and/or removing data that is unnecessary for display on a particular
   device type). In some instances, which processing protocol is used and/or a characteristic of
   the processing protocol depends on a characteristic of the signal or the identified app. For
   example, different apps may remove different types of information from a message.
    [02851    At block 1225, the processed message can be accessed (e.g., received from an app
   processor). At block 1230, one or more other electronic devices can be identified. The other
   electronic device(s) can include one, more or all devices associated with a same user account
   as associated with a device performing process 1200; one, more or all devices paired with the
10 performing device; one, more or all devices for which a proximate condition is satisfied
   and/or one, more or all devices of a given type. In one instance, the other electronic device(s)
   are identified by the subscriber app and/or based on the processing.
    102861    At block 1235, a signal with the processed message can be transmitted to the other
   device(s). The signal can also include an identifier, for example, of a device performing
15 process 1200, an identifier of the app associated with the message and/or an identifier of the
   subscriber app.
    [02871    FIG. 13 is a flow diagram of a process 1300 for transforming a processed in
   accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Part or all of process 1300 can be
   implemented in a mobile device.
20  [02881    At block 1305, a signal with data corresponding to a message can be received. The
   signal can include, in some instances, a message processed at another device (e.g., at a
   coordinating device), a message summary, and/or an identifier of an app. In some instances,
   the signal received at block 1305 corresponds to a signal transmitted at block 1235 in process
    1200.
25  [02891    At block 1310, an app associated with the signal can be identified. The app can
   include, for example, one that was used to generate a message summary included in the
   message, one subscribed to process an initial version of the message, one identified in the
   message, and/or one subscribed to transfonn a processed version of the message (e.g.,
   included in the signal). In some instances, the app can be identified by analyzing the signal
30 (e.g., to extract an identifier of the app). In some instances, the app can be identified by using
   a subscriber structure, which can (or need not) be a same subscriber structure that a
   coordinating device may have used to process an original message. The subscriber structure
                                                     70

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   can associate a characteristic of the message, an app identifier (e.g., for an app at least partly
   responsible for initially generating or transmitting the message or for an app that processed
   the message), an identifier of the message, or another variable with one or more apps
   subscribed to transform a processed version of the message. Thus, block 1310 can include
 5 looking up an app identifier, message identifier or other variable in the subscriber structure to
   identify an associated app for the message. In some instances, part of the data in the signal
   can be used to identify the app (e.g., by looking up the content in a structure). For example, a
   signal can identify an original source of the message, and the source can be associated with
   (e.g., paired with) an app in a structure. In some instances, app subscriptions are configured
10 such that a same app (though on different devices) generates a message summary and also
   transforms the summary (e.g., into a notification or complete message).
    102901    At block 1315, the identified app can be enabled to transform the message data into
   a notification. The enablement can include, for example, availing and/or sending the data to
   the app to (e.g., a local) processing module for the app and/or initiating execution of the app.
15 The transformation can be performed according to a transformation protocol, which can
   include a protocol for, for example, expanding a summary for the message (e.g., by
   combining locally stored content or remote content associated with the message or app that is
   identified in the summary or common across messages of a given type), and/or reconstituting
   an original message corresponding to the data, In some instances, the transformation can
20 include reversing some or all of processing of a message that had been performed on a device
   having sent the signal. In some instances, which transformation protocol is used and/or a
   characteristic of the transformation protocol can depend on a characteristic of the signal or
   the identified app. For example, different apps may supplement processed messages with
   different types of additional information.
25  [02911    To illustrate a transformation, a received signal may include an identifier of a stock
   alert defined by the user. Upon receiving the signal, a financial app on a mobile device may
   retrieve the identified stock alert, which can include a particular stock symbol and a stock
   price threshold. The financial app can then transform the signal into a more complete
   notification that includes the stock symbol and threshold. The financial app can even further
30 retrieve a current price of the stock from a remote source and include the current price in the
   notification.
                                                    '71

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
    [02921    At block 1320, the notification can be accessed (e.g., received from the app after the
   transformation). At block 1325, a visual notification presentation can be generated for the
   notification. The visual notification can include all or part of the message and/or notification.
   In some instances, the visual notification includes one or more options that, upon user
 5 selection of an option, causes additional information to be presented and/or allows a user to
   take an action (e.g., dismiss a reminder, return a call, generate and send a text message, etc.).
   At block 1330, the visual notification presentation can be presented.
    102931    FIG. 14 is a flow diagram of a process 1400 for determining whether to present an
   alert in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Part or all of process 1400 can be
10 implemented in a coordinating device.
    [02941    Process 1400 can begin at block 1405 where a message is detected. Detecting the
   message can include detecting receipt of the message from, for example, a server or other
   device (e.g., associated with a shared user account or a paired device) or detecting a locally
   generated the message (e.g., the message having been generated using an app installed on or
15 executing on a device performing part or all of process 1200). The message can include
   received content (e.g., originating from another user or source) and/or can represent an
   occurrence of an event.
    102951    At block 1410, a location characteristic of each of one or more mobile devices can
   be determined. Determining the location characteristic can include, for example, determining
20 whether any mobile devices (e.g., of a particular type and/or associated with a particular
   account) is can communicate with the coordinating device via a particular type of
   communication channel (e.g., a short-range network, a Bluetooth channel or a BTLE channel)
   and/or is within a defined distance from the coordinating device.
    102961    At block 1415, it can be determined, using the location characteristic(s), whether a
25 proximate condition is satisfied. The proximate condition can be one defined to determine
   whether any (and/or which) mobile devices associated with a particular user account are near
   the coordinating device and/or one defined to suppress redundant alerts for a same message.
   Thus, the proximate condition can include a functional or absolute threshold for when a
   mobile device is determined to be sufficiently near a coordinating device to suppress an alert
30 on at least one of the devices. The proximate condition Can include, for example, an inter
   device communication condition (e.g., the devices must be able to communicate over a
   particular type of communication channel and/or such channel must have an above-threshold
                                                   '72

      WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
   signal strength) or a distance condition (e.g., the devices must be separated by less than a
   defined distance, as determined by GPS coordinates of each device or another localization of
   each device). The proximate condition can be fixed, dependent on a characteristic of a
   message, defined by an app and/or defined by a user.
 5  [02971    When it is determined that the proximate condition is not satisfied, at block 1420a,
   the coordinating device can present an alert (e.g., an audio and/or haptic alert) for the
   message. Block 1420a can parallel block 1035 in process 1000.
    [0298]    When it is determined that other proximate condition is satisfied, at block 1425, one
   or more modes of the coordinating device can be identified. Block 1425 can include, for
10 example, determining whether the coordinating device is in an active mode (e.g., based on
   whether a screen is on, whether a device is unlocked, whether sensor data indicates that it is
   being worn, an orientation of the device, an elevation of the device or a time of last input)
   that is indicative of current or recent usage of the device. In some instances, block 1425 can
   also or alternatively include determining whether the coordinating device is in another mode,
15 such as a do-not-disturb mode or a sleep mode.
    [02991    At block 1430, it is determined whether the coordinating device is identified as
   being in the active mode. When the coordinating device is in the active mode, process 1400
   can continue to block 1420b, where the coordinating device can present an alert (e.g., an
   audio and/or haptic alert) for the message. Block 1420b can parallel block 1035 in process
20  1000. Additionally, a signal can be transmitted to each of one or more mobile devices (for
   which the proximate condition was satisfied) that includes an instruction to suppress
   presentation of an alert for the message. This signal can cause the mobile device to, for
   example, not present any audio and/or any haptic stimulus in response to the message, not
   present a particular (e.g., default) audio and/or haptic stimulus for the message, or reduce an
25 amplitude of any presented audio and/or haptic signal for the message. The signal can include
   an identifier of the message and/or an identifier of a corresponding notification.
    [0300]    When it is determined that the coordinating device is not in an active mode, process
    1400 can continue to block 1440, where the coordinating device can transmit a signal to a
   mobile device (e.g., for which the proximate condition was satisfied) with an invitation to
30 present an alert for the message at block 1240. The signal can include an identifier of the
   message and/or an identifier of a corresponding notification. In some instances, the signal can
   include part or all of a message or notification itself (e.g., such that signal alert invitation can
                                                    73

     WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   also serve to forward the part or all of the message or notification). The invitation can include
   an expiration time by which a response is requested.
   [0301]     FIG. 15 is a flow diagram of a process 1500 for determining whether to present an
   alert in accordance with another embodiment of the invention. Part or all of process 1500 can
 5 be implemented in a coordinating device.
   [03021     Process 1500 can begin at block 1505 where a new notification on a notification
   board can be detected. At block 15 10, a queue item corresponding to the notification can be
   added to an alert queue. The queue item can include an identifier of the notification and/or an
   associated message, a time (e.g., associated with the notification or a time at which the queue
10 item was generated) and/or an app identifier.
   [03031     At block 1515, one or more modes of the coordinating device can be identified. The
   identification can include determining whether the coordinating device is in an active mode
   based on, e.g., whether a screen of the coordinating device is on, whether the coordinating
   device is unlocked, whether input has been received via an interface of the coordinating
15 device within a defined time period and/or whether a movement variable (e.g.. cumulative
   motion over a time period or a time of a most recent motion detection) for the coordinating
   device exceeds a threshold.
   [0304]     It can be determined,  at block 1520, whether any mobile devices (e.g.,
   corresponding to a particular user account and/or any paired mobile devices) are nearby. This
20 determination can include evaluation of a proximate condition, identifying whether the
   coordinating device is paired to any device, identifying a location of the coordinating device
   and/or identifying a location of one or more other devices. For example, block 1520 can
   include determining whether the coordinating device is paired to any other devices.
   103051     When it is determined that no mobile devices are nearby (e.g., no mobile devices
25 corresponding to a particular user account are nearby or no paired mobile devices are
   nearby), process 1500 can continue to block 1525a, where an alert can be presented for each
   item in the queue. Presentation of each alert can parallel that described at block 1035 in
   process 1000. In some instances, the alert queue can include one or more other queue items in
   addition to the one added at block 1510. In some embodiments, an alert can be presented for
30 each of two or more (or all) queue items. The alerts can be presented sequentially. In some
   instances, an alert characteristic differs across multiple queue items. For example, which
                                                    74

      WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
   audio signal is presented can depend on which app a queue item corresponds to. In some
   instances, alerts are the same across queue items.
    [03061     When it is determined that one or more mobile devices are nearby, it can be
   determined at block 1530 whether the mode of the coordinating device is an active mode.
 5 Block 1530 can parallel block 1045 of process 1000.
    [03071     When the coordinating device is in an active mode, an alert can be presented for
   each item in the queue at block 1525b. Block 1525b can parallel block 1525a. In some
   instances, a signal with a no-alert instruction can be sent to a mobile device at block 1535.
   The signal can identify-one or more messages and/or notifications (e.g., a message
10 corresponding to the detected new notification and/or a rnessage corresponding to each queue
   item for which an alert was presented). The signal can indicate that one or more alerts were
   handled by the coordinating device and/or can include an instruction not to present an alert
   for one or more alerts.
    103081     At least partly based on a determination of a coordinating device not being in an
15 active mode, the coordinating device can determinate that an alert-coordinating criterion is
   satisfied. In such instances, a signal can be sent to the mobile device with an invitation to
   present an alert for the message at block 1540. The invitation can include an identifier of the
   message and/or an identifier of a corresponding notification. In some instances, no message
   or notification is identified. The invitation can include part or all of a message or notification
20 itself (e.g., such that an alert invitation can also serve to forward the part or all of the message
   or notification). The invitation can include an expiration time by which a response is
   requested. In some instances, the invitation can be implied based on other signal
   characteristics.
    103091     At block 1545, it can be determined whether an acceptance message responsive to
25 the invitation has been received from the mobile device. This determination can include
   determining whether an acceptance message is received during a period of time (e.g.,
   beginning at a time when the invitation signal is sent). An acceptance message can indicate,
   for example, that the mobile device has or will present the alert and/or that the mobile device
   is in an active mode (eg., indicating that it will handle the alert presentation). In some
30 instances, the acceptance message can include one or more alert characteristics, such as a
   time that the alert was presented. In some instances, the acceptance message can be merely a
   response message without explicit alert-handling or acceptance content, though such
                                                      75

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   acceptance can be inferred by the presence of the message. If an acceptance message is
   received, process 1500 can continue to block 1550, where the queue item added at block
    1510 can be removed from the queue,
    103101    If an acceptance message is not received, process 1500 can continue to block 1525c,
 5 where an alert can be presented for each item in the queue. Block 1525c can parallel block
    1525a. At block 1555, following presentation of an alert, one or more queue items can be
   removed from the queue. The one or more queue items can include all queue items for which
   an alert was presented.
    103111    While in process 1500, alerts can be presented for each queue item in the queue, it
10 will be appreciated that in other embodiments, alerts can be presented for only a portion of
   the queue items in the queue (which can include a single queue item or a plurality of queue
   items. For example, an alert can be presented only for the queue item added at block 1510.
    [0312]    It will be appreciated that alert handling can depend on various factors, such as an
   app associated with a message, a device type, and/or user preferences. In one instance, alert
15 handling is different for messages associated with apps on a blacklist and/or having a
   distribution-handling subscriber (and/or messages forwarded across devices) and messages
   associated with other apps. For example, all devices may present alerts for the former
   messages. In one instance, alert handling can be independent of whether an app is on a
   blacklist and/or has a subscriber.
20  [03131    In process 1500, alert presentation can be conditioned upon a proximate condition
   (e.g., at block 1520). It will be appreciated that alert presentation in other embodiments need
   not involve evaluation of a proximate condition. For example, if it is detected that a device is
   in a particular mode, all other devices (or devices of a particular type) that are associated with
   a same user account can have an alert suppressed.
25  [03141    Using an alert queue can be useful in situations where one or more devices change
   modes between message receipts, For example, a coordinating device may not be in an active
   mode when a first message is received. Thus, it can invite a nearby mobile device to present
   an alert for the first message. While the coordinating device waits to determine whether the
   mobile device will present the alert, its mode can change to an active mode. Further, while
30 waiting for a response, a second message can be received. At this point, the coordinating
   device can present alerts for both messages quickly, such that a single device notifies a user
   of both (potentially related) messages.
                                                     76

      WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
    [03151    FIG. 16 is a flow diagram of a process 1600 for determining whether to present an
   alert in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Part or all of process 1600 can be
   implemented in a mobile device. Process 1600 can begin at block 1605 where a new message
   can be detected. For example, the message can be one received from a source, such as a
 5 coordinating device or server or the message can be locally generated.
    [03161    At block 1610, it can be determined whether a coordinating device is nearby the
   mobile device. Block 1610 can mirror block 1520 of process 1500. When it is determined
   that a coordinating device is not nearby, an alert corresponding to the message can be
   presented at block 1615a. Block 1615a can parallel block 1035 of process 1000.
10  [03171    When it is determined that a coordinating device is nearby, process 1600 can
   continue to block 1620 where a communication channel and clock can be monitored and an
   alert for the message can be stalled. Monitoring the communication channel can include
   determining whether a signal with an alert invitation is received (e.g., via a particular
   communication channel or any communication channel) from the coordinating device.
15 Monitoring the clock can include, for example, starting a timer and/or determining whether a
   current time passes a threshold time (e.g., defined as a time period plus a time at which the
   message was detected). Stalling the alert for the message can include at least temporarily
   refraining from presenting any (or a particular type of) alert for the message. For example, in
   one instance, no audio or haptic stimulus is presented responsive to the message detection
20 during the refraining of the alert.
    [03181    At block 1625, it can be determined whether a signal with an alert invitation has
   been received from a coordinating device. If such a signal was not received, process 1600 can
   continue to block 1630 where it can be determined whether the threshold time has passed
   (which can include determining whether a timer has expired). If it is determined that the
25 threshold time has not passed, process 1600 can return to block 1620 such that the mobile
   device can continue to wait for an invitation to present an alert.
    [0319]    If it is determined that the threshold time has passed, process 1600 can continue to
   block 1615b where an alert corresponding to the message can be presented. Block 1615b can
   parallel block 1615a and block 1035 of process 1000.
30  [03201    If a signal with an invitation is received before the threshold time, process 1600 can
   continue to block 1635 where one or more modes of the mobile device can be identified. The
   identification can include determining whether the mobile device is in an active mode based
                                                     77

       WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
    on, e.g., whether the mobile device is unlocked, whether a sensor reading indicates that the
    mobile device is being worn, whether a screen of the mobile device is on, whether input has
    been received via an interface of the mobile device within a defined time period and/or
    whether a movement variable (e.g., cumulative motion over a time period or a time of a most
  5 recent motion detection) for the mobile device exceeds a threshold.
     [03211    A determination can be made at block 1640 as to whether the mobile device is in an
    active mode (e.g., whether one of the identified modes includes or is an active mode). Block
     1640 can parallel block 1530 of process 1500 and/or block 1045 of process 1000.
     103221    If it is determined that the mobile device is in an active mode, a message accepting
10  the alert invitation can be sent to the coordinating device at block 1645. An acceptance
    message can include characteristics as disclosed with respect to block 1545 of process 1500.
     [03231    At block 1615c, an alert corresponding to the message can be presented. Block
     1615c can parallel block 1615a.
     [0324]    When it is determined that the mobile device is not in an active mode, a declination
15  message can be transmitted to the coordinating device at block 1650. The declination
    message can indicate that the mobile device is not going to or has not presented an alert for
    the new message and/or identify a mode of the device. In some instances, the declination
    message includes an invitation for the coordinating device to present the alert.
     [0325]    It will be appreciated that, as with all processes disclosed herein, process 1600 can
20  include more or fewer or different blocks than those shown in FIG. 16. For example, in some
    instances, block 1650 can be omitted from process 1600. A lack of an acceptance message
    can be interpreted to be a declination of an invitation.
     [03261    FIG. 17 is a flow diagram of a process 1700 for responding to messages while in a
    do-not-disturb mode in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Part or all of
2-5 process 1700 can be implemented in a coordinating device.
     10327]    Process 1700 can begin at block 1705 where input corresponding to an instruction
    to enter a do-not-disturb mode can be detected. The input can include, for example, a
    mechanical input (e.g., switching a switch or pressing a button), a touchscreen input, a voice
    command, or a cursor selection. In some instances, the do-not-disturb mode can include one
30  that corresponds to a silencing or inhibition of all audio and/or haptic alerts. In some
    instances, the input indicates that the mode is to apply to (for example) one or more particular
                                                      78

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   apps, accounts, time periods, contacts and/or threads. In some instances, the input indicates
   that the mode is to apply to apps, time periods, contacts and/or threads having a particular
   characteristic.
    103281   At block 1710, a mode can be set to a do-not-disturb mode (e.g., according to the
 5 applicability of the input). In some instances, a device can be in multiple modes, such that
   setting a device mode to the do-not-disturb mode does not prevent the mode from being in
   one or more other modes, such as an activity mode (e.g., active, inactive, and/or asleep).
   Setting the mode to the do-not-disturb mode can inhibit select stimuli from being presented
   on the device. For example, the mode can inhibit or prevent audio and/or haptic stimuli from
10 being presented on the device (in general or in response to some or all messages).
    [03291    In some instances, a signal with a do-no-disturb instruction can be sent to a mobile
   device at block 1715. The instruction can, in some instances, identify applicability of the
   mode (e.g., identifying one or more particular apps, contacts, time periods, accounts, and/or
   threads and/or a characteristic of an app, contact, time period or thread for which the mode is
15 to apply and/or identifying a characteristic indicating when the mode is to apply). The mobile
   device can include one paired to the coordinating device, one that is near the coordinating
   device (as determined based on evaluation of a proximate condition) and/or one that is
   associated with a same user account as is associated with the mobile device.
    [03301   A new message can be detected at block 1720. The new message can be detected,
20 e.g., based on a signal received from a server or other device. In some instances, detecting the
   new message includes detecting a new notification corresponding to the message. In some
   instances, the message can have an association (e.g., to an app, contact, time period, thread or
   account) or characteristic corresponding to the do-not-disturb mode.
    103311   At block 1725, the coordinating device can suppress presentation of an alert for the
25 message. The suppression can include riot presenting an audio and/or haptic stimulus in
   correspondence with the message. In some instances, one or more visual stimuli (e.g., a
   screen tuning on) can also be suppressed or not performed. Depending on the embodiment, a
   do-not-disturb mode may, or may not, influence whether a notification presentation is
   presented for the message (e.g., such that a notification presentation for a message is not
30 presented if the message was received while in the do-not-disturb mode).
    [03321    In addition to not presenting the alert, suppressing an alert presentation can include
   not transmitting an alert-presentation invitation to another device. This lack of transmission
                                                    79

      WO 2015/183558                                                          PCT/US2015/030591
   can occur even if the coordinating device is not in an active mode, which could have
   otherwise prompted the coordinating device to send a signal with an alert invitation to a
   nearby device (as described herein, particularly in reference to process 1500). This invitation
   suppression can occur instead of or in addition to the signal sent in block 1715 to instruct the
 5 mobile device to enter do-not-disturb mode. In some instances, the invitation suppression can
   itself serve to cause the mobile device to effectively partly or fully enter a do-not-disturb
   mode.
    103331    It will thus be appreciated that, in process 400, in some embodiments, an alert
   coordination criterion can require not only that the coordinating device not be in an active
10 mode, but also that the coordinating device not be in a do-not-disturb mode. In these
   instances, an alert invitation can be selectively sent only in instances where the coordinating
   device is in neither the active mode nor the do-not-disturb mode. In other embodiments, the
   alert-coordination criterion only requires that the coordinating device not be in one of these
   modes (active mode or do-not-disturb mode). In some embodiments, the alert-coordination
15 criterion includes other mode-related requirements (e.g., requiring the device not be in a
   vibrate mode) or other requirements not relates to the device mode.
    [0334]    For a new message detected while in a do-not-disturb mode, in some instances, a
   new queue item corresponding to the message may not be added to a queue. In some
   instances, a new queue item can be added, but it can be removed even though no alert is
20 presented for the message.
    [03351    Process 1700 provides a technique by which a user can initiate a do-not-disturb
   mode on one device and cause other devices to similarly enter the mode. In some instances,
   multiple do-not-disturb modes can be available, such that a user can indicate whether only
   one device or multiple devices are to be in the mode.
25  [03361    In some instances, the mobile device can remain in the do-not-disturb mode until
   the mode is changed (e.g., at the mobile device or coordinating device). If the mode is
   changed at the coordinating device, a second signal with a mode-changing instruction can be
   sent to the mobile device. In some instances, the mobile device can remain in the do-not
   disturb mode until the mobile devices are no longer near each other (as defined based on a
30 proximate condition).
                                                     80

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
    [03371    FIG. 18 is a flow diagram of a process 1800 for responding to messages while in a
   do-not-disturb mode in accordance in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Part
   or all of process 1800 can be implemented in a mobile device.
    103381    Process 1800 can begin at block 1805 where input corresponding to an instruction
 5 to enter a do-not-disturb mode is detected. At block 18 10, a mode can be set to a do-not
   disturb mode. Blocks 1805 and 1810 can respectively parallel blocks 1705 and 1710 from
   process 1700. At block 1815, a first signal can be received from a coordinating device with
   an alert invitation.
    103391    At block 1820, a second signal with an acceptance to the invitation can be
10 transmitted to the coordinating device. Block 1820 can parallel block 1645 in process 1600.
   The second signal can be sent, e.g., when the mobile device is also in an active mode or
   irrespective of whether the mobile device is in an active mode.
    [0340]    At block 1825, the mobile device can suppress presentation of an alert for the
   message. Block 1825 can parallel block 1725 in process 1700.
15  103411    Thus, the mobile device can indicate to a coordinating device that it is handling an
   alert for a message even though the alert is not (in some instances) presented due to tlie
   device being in the do-not-disturb mode. The handling indication can prevent a nearby
   coordinating device from presenting an alert for the message. Thus, the mobile device can
   extend a reach of a do-not-disturb input,
20  103421    It will be appreciated that inter-device interactions disclosed herein can be extended
   to a variety of arrangements. For example, some embodiments include a coordinating device
   that can forward a message to a mobile device and further can be of higher priority over a
   mobile device with regard to alert presentation. In other embodiments, however, a device that
   forwards a message can be of lower priority relative to the mobile device. In some
25 embodiments, a first set of devices can interact during a message-forwarding process and a
   second set of devices (which can include a device not in the first set and/or an incomplete
   subset of the first set) can interact during an alert-coordination process such an incomplete
   subset of the second set presents an alert fbr the message.
    103431    Further, while some disclosures relate to an interaction between two devices, it will
30 be appreciated that embodiments can be extended to more devices. For example, for selection
   of a device in a set of devices to present an alert, devices of sequentially lower priority can
                                                     81

      WO 2015/183558                                                           PCT/US2015/030591
   iteratively receive alert presentations until one is in an active mode or until it is determined
   that none are in an active mode.
    [0344]    Embodiments disclosed herein provide a variety of useful inter-device coordination
   capabilities and advantages. For example, a first device can conditionally forward a message
 5 to a second device. This forwarding can be selective in terms of which apps' messages are
   handled by inter-device forwarding, and the selection can be based on stored app-pertinent
   data (e.g., a blacklist and/or app subscriber lists). Thus, for apps for which message
   distribution can be appropriately handled using an alternative technique, messages need not
   be unnecessarily forwarded.
10  [03451    A result of the forwarding or another occurrence (e.g., a server distribution of a
   message) can cause multiple user devices to have access to information pertaining to a single
   message, such that a user can view the message from any of the multiple devices. In some
   instances, each device of the multiple devices or each device in an active mode can present a
   notification presentation of the message. Therefore, regardless of which device the user is
15 near, the user can be notified of the message. Meanwhile, particular devices can be selected
   (e.g., based on a priority list of the device and/or device modes) to present audio and/or
   haptic alerts of a message. Consequentially, if a user is near several devices, redundant alerts
   can be avoided.
    [03461    While the invention has been described with respect to specific embodiments, one
20 skilled in the art will recognize that numerous modifications are possible. For example,
   different sensors or combinations of sensors can be substituted for those described herein. A
   variety of different mobile devices and mobile devices can be used.
    103471    Some described embodiments pertain to establishing or using a pairing or other
   connection that enables devices to recognize each other as being authorized for
25 interoperation. This can reduce the likelihood that a device not suited to participate in a
   message distribution and/or alert coordination technique will be automatically be included in
   performance of the technique. Security, such as Bluetooth security, can be utilized to provide
   secure communication sessions.
    103481    It will be appreciated that part or all of various processes and/or techniques
30 described herein can be performed by a daemnon or plugin executing on a performing
   electronic device. In some instances, whether and/or which of a daemon or plugin performs
   part or all of a process depends on an app associated with a message.

     WO 2015/183558                                                            PCT/US2015/030591
   [03491     For example, a daemon may detect a new message and identify a corresponding
   app. For some apps, the daemon may determine that the app is on a blacklist and can refrain
   from some or all further handling (e.g., processing, forwarding, or presenting the message),
   and the app can instead handle. For example, the app can coordinate forwarding the message
 5 or a processed version thereof using a cloud server or near-field communication channel. For
   some apps, the daemon may handle determining whether the message is to be processed
   and/or forwarded to another device, whether a notification of the message is to be presented
   and/or whether an alert (e.g., a non-visual alert) is to be presented. The daemon can further
   handle processing, forwarding, notification presentation aid/or alert presentation. For some
10 apps, the daemon can determine that a plugin is to handle determining whether the message is
   to be processed and/or forwarded to another device, whether a notification of the message is
   to be presented and/or whether an alert (e.g., a non-visual alert) is to be presented. The plugin
   can handle one or more of such determinations and can further handle processing,
   forwarding, notification presentation and/or alert presentation.
15 [03501     Some disclosures herein refer to an app. It will be appreciated that such disclosures
   can be extended to additionally or alternatively relate to any other type of software, such as a
   plugin or extension.
   103511     The foregoing description may make reference to specific examples of a mobile
   device and/or a coordinating device. It is to be understood that these examples are illustrative
20 and not limiting; other devices can be substituted and can implement similar functional
   blocks and/or algorithms to perform operations described herein and/or other operations.
   Further, some or all of the devices can be non-mobile and/or non-mobile.
   103521     Embodiments of the present invention, e.g., in methods, apparatus,
   computer-readable media and the like, can be realized using any combination of dedicated
25 components and/or programmable processors and/or other programmable devices. The
   various processes described herein can be implemented on the same processor or different
   processors in any combination. Where components are described as being configured to
   perform certain operations, such configuration can be accomplished, e.g., by designing
   electronic circuits to perform the operation, by programming programmable electronic
30 circuits (such as microprocessors) to perform the operation, or any combination thereof.
   Further, while the embodiments described above may make reference to specific hardware
   and software components, those skilled in the art will appreciate that different combinations
                                                   8.3

     WO 2015/183558                                                        PCT/US2015/030591
   of hardware and/or software components may also be used and that particular operations
   described as being implemented in hardware might also be implemented in software or vice
   versa.
   103531    Computer programs incorporating various features of the present invention may be
 5 encoded and stored on various computer readable storage media; suitable rnedia include
   magnetic disk or tape, optical storage media such as compact disk (CD) or DVD (digital
   versatile disk), flash memory, and other non-transitory media. Computer readable media
   encoded with the program code may be packaged with a compatible electronic device, or the
   program code may be provided separately from electronic devices (e.g., via Internet
10 download or as a separately packaged computer-readable storage medium).
   [03541    Thus, although the invention has been described with respect to specific
   embodiments, it will be appreciated that the invention is intended to cover all modifications
   and equivalents within the scope of the following claims.
                                                  84

1002187617
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 1.      A method, comprising:
          detecting, at a coordinating device, a message that is designated for delivery to a
mobile device; and
          in response to detecting the message at the coordinating device:
                  in accordance with a determination that the coordinating device is in an active
         mode, presenting an alert corresponding to the message at the coordinating device;
                  in accordance with a determination that the coordinating device is not in the
          active mode and the mobile device will not present an alert corresponding to the
         message, presenting an alert corresponding to the message at the coordinating device;
          and
                  in accordance with a determination that the coordinating device is not in the
          active mode and the mobile device will present an alert corresponding to the message,
          forgoing presentation of an alert corresponding to the message at the coordinating
          device.
2.        The method of claim 1, further comprising, in response to detecting the message at the
coordinating device, in accordance with a determination that the coordinating device is in an
active mode, suppressing presentation of an alert at the mobile device.
3.        The method of claim 1, further comprising, in response to detecting the message at the
coordinating device, in accordance with a determination that the coordinating device is in the
active mode, suppressing presentation of an alert corresponding to the message at the mobile
device.
4.        The method of claim 3, wherein suppressing presentation of the alert corresponding to
the message includes transmitting an instruction not to present audio and/or haptic stimulus in
response to the message to the mobile device.
5.        The method of claim 1, further comprising:
          detecting, at the coordinating device, an other message; and
          in response to detecting the message at the coordinating device, in accordance with a
determination that the coordinating device is in the active mode, presenting an alert
corresponding to the other message at the coordinating device.
                                                  85

1002187617
6.        The method of claim 1, further comprising:
          detecting, at the coordinating device, an other message; and
          in accordance with a determination that the coordinating device is in a do-not-disturb
mode indicating that the coordinating device is to suppress audio stimuli elicited in response
to messages, transmitting an other signal to the mobile device that corresponds to an
instruction not to present an audio alert corresponding to the other message.
7.        The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the coordinating device is in the
active mode includes determining whether a display screen of the coordinating device is on or
unlocked.
8.        The method of claim 1, further comprising, in accordance with a determination that
the coordinating device is not in the active mode and that the mobile device has not indicated
that it is handling presentation of the alert for the message, presenting an alert at the
coordinating device.
9.        The method of claim 8, wherein determining that the mobile device has not indicated
that it is handling presentation of the alert for the message includes receiving a declination
signal from the mobile device that indicates that the mobile device is not handling
presentation of the alert for the message.
 10.      The method of claim 8, wherein determining that the mobile device has not indicated
that it is handling presentation of the alert for the message includes determining that an
acceptance signal indicating that the mobile device is handling presentation of the alert for
the message has not been received within a period of time from a time at which the signal
was transmitted.
 11.      The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a location characteristic, and
wherein determining the location characteristic includes determining whether the mobile
device and the coordinating device are connected to a same network, and wherein a
proximate condition is satisfied when the mobile device and the coordinating device are
connected to the same network.
 12.      The method of claim 11, wherein determining the location characteristic includes
determining whether the coordinating device detects the mobile device.
                                                  86

1002187617
 13.      The method of claim 1, wherein the alert includes an audio alert or a haptic alert.
 14.      The method of claim 1, wherein the active mode is identified at a first time, wherein it
is determined that an alert-coordination criterion is satisfied, and wherein the method further
comprises:
          adding a first queue item to an alert queue, wherein the first queue item corresponds
to the message;
          detecting a second message;
          identifying, at a second time, that the coordinating device has not received an
acceptance of the invitation from the mobile device;
          determining, based on not receiving the acceptance of the invitation from the mobile
device, that the coordinating device is to present the coordinating-device alert at the
coordinating device for the second message irrespective of a current mode of the mobile
device;
          in response to determining that the coordinating device is to present the coordinating
device alert at the coordinating device for the second message irrespective of the current
mode of the mobile device, presenting the coordinating-device alert at the coordinating
device for each of the message and the second message; and
         removing the first queue item from the alert queue.
 15.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
         when it is determined that the coordinating device is in the active mode:
                  generating a visual notification presentation for the message; and
                  presenting the visual notification presentation on the coordinating device; and
         when it is determined that the coordinating device is not in the active mode:
                  subsequently identifying that the coordinating device is in the active mode;
                  determining that a notification for the message is pending;
                  generating a visual notification presentation for the message; and
                  presenting the visual notification presentation on the coordinating device.
 16.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
          identifying an app associated with the message;
          determining, based on the identified app, whether the coordinating device is to handle
message forwarding for the app; and
         when it is determined that the coordinating device is to handle forwarding for the app:
                                                   87

1002187617
                  identifying an other electronic device, wherein each of the coordinating device
          and the other electronic device are associated with a same account; and
                  transmitting, from the coordinating device, a signal to the other electronic
          device, wherein the signal includes at least part of the message.
 17.      The method of claim 16, wherein determining whether the coordinating device is to
handle message forwarding for the app includes determining whether the app is identified on
a blacklist, and wherein it is determined that the coordinating device is not to handle message
forwarding for the app when it is determined that the app is identified on the blacklist.
 18.      The method of claim 1, further comprising:
          identifying an app associated with the message;
          enabling the app to locally process the message;
          accessing a processed message generated by the app; and
         transmitting a signal to the mobile device includes the processed message.
 19.      The method of claim 1, further comprising, when it is determined that the
coordinating device is in the active mode:
          identifying a type of message of the message; and
          determining a type of alert based on the type of message, wherein the coordinating
device alert is of the type of alert.
20.       The method of claim 1, wherein each of the mobile device and the coordinating
device are associated with a same user account.
21.       The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile device includes a device paired to the
coordinating device.
22.       The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the coordinating device is in the
active mode includes determining whether a display screen of the coordinating device is
powered on.
23.       The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a signal to the mobile device
that includes an identifier corresponding to the message.
24.       The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile device comprises a wearable electronic
device.
                                                  88

1002187617
25.       The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile device comprises a watch.
26.       The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the message includes using a daemon to
detect a signal from a server or other device that represents an occurrence of an event.
27.       The method of claim 1, wherein the message corresponds to a text message, an email
message, a voice message, or a call.
28.      A coordinating device, comprising:
          an output component that outputs stimuli;
          a connection component that transmits communications to other devices;
          one or more processors coupled to the output component and the connection
component; and
          a computer-readable storage medium containing instructions, that, when executed by
the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform any of the methods
of claims 1-27.
29.      A system, comprising:
          one or more data processors; and
          a non-transitory computer readable storage medium containing instructions which
when executed on the one or more data processors, cause the one or more data processors to
perform any of the methods of claims 1-27.
30. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising a tangible computer
program product, including instructions configured to cause one or more data processors to
perform any of the methods of claims 1-27.
                                                89

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
