133888AUDIV
ABSTRACT:
A computer implemented method is disclosed, including displaying a web page comprising a
self-contained block of script executable by a web browser to display a visible social network
icon. A signal is received indicating either a first type of selection or a second type of selection
of either the social network icon or an element of the webpage other than the social network
icon by a user of the user device. The first type of selection of the social network icon enables
the user to login to a social network. Receiving the second type of selection of the element of
the webpage other than the social network icon causes display of a context menu standard to
the web browser, while receiving the second type of selection of the social network icon causes
execution of the script associated with the social network icon by the web browser to display a
user interface unique to the social network icon within the web page.
                                                  35

                                      FIGURE 2a
                   201
   200                                          204
                                                                   205
                                                   206
                                            RECOMMEND   208
                                            WALLPOST     209                                G2
                                            [NVITE       211
                                207
                                            COMMENTS     219
                     203                |   CHAT         223 y
                                            SAVE         224
                                                                                  220
                                           USERX Comment
                                           USER Y: Comment
                                            USERZ                  222
                                      FIGURE 2b
 -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -          - - - - - - ----------------------
          as 212                 205                                 USER X HAS INVITED YOU TO
                                                                            JOIN THEM AT:
II
                                                           214                   URL
          RECOMMEND                           I
                                       212
          WALLPOST                                            215      ACCEPT         DECLINE
          INVITE      211    ONLNE:                          216
            II
          COMMENTS           User X
                                                                    217              218
          CHAT
          SAVE                                       I
                             User Y
            II
                   -200                                                       213
                                          2/7

133888AUDIV
                        SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ACCESSING A HUB
TECHNICAL FIELD
The present invention relates to a system and method for accessing a hub.
STATEMENT OF CORRESPONDING APPLICATIONS
This application is based on the Provisional specifications filed in relation to New Zealand
Patent Application Numbers 594380, 595380, and 596088 and the Provisional specifications
filed in relation to United States Patent Application Numbers 61/538797, and 62/553198, the
entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.
BACKGROUND ART
With widespread access to the Internet and improving infrastructure permitting greater amounts
of data to be transferred, digital publishing formats and services are increasingly being adopted
as part of everyday life.
Digital publishing formats and services include newspapers, magazines, video sites, web sites,
search engines, eBooks, blogs, social networks, mobile news and messaging networks or a
combination of these services, sites, platforms, networks and mediums.
With this vast array of data and services being accessible, it is generally desirable to improve
user experience in terms of collecting and collating that data and/or aggregating those services.
For example, in many cases a user has accessed a webpage for a purpose, and is intent on
achieving that purpose within a certain amount of time. Material on that webpage (for example
a link to another article) may catch their attention as being of interest - but they may not have
the time or inclination to access that material at that particular moment.
Stand alone applications, for example Evernote T M , are known for the selection of text, images
or links in a webpage by a user, and saving this material for the user's review at a later time.
However, locally hosted applications or browser plugins have inherent disadvantages
associated with their ongoing support and maintenance.             This requires the user to take
additional steps to enable this functionality - particularly installation.    Further, the user will
typically be required to update their software to ensure ongoing operation.
A particular example of content which would be desirable to store for later review is advertising.
Digital advertising is increasingly being targeted to a user, for example using algorithms based
on recent browsing activity, and demographic information obtained from other online activity by
the user. Also, multiple advertisers may be bidding for the same spot on a web page. As such,
the ads may change every time the same page is viewed on the same day by the same user.
                                                   1

133888AUDIV
It is envisaged that providing the ability to save and review advertisements may also be
commercially useful for advertisers and advertising services in terms of improving the likelihood
of engagement by the user.        In particular, there is a greater prospect for a user to "click
through" to the advertiser when they have the opportunity to review the advertisement and
consider any offer - thus providing exposure for the advertiser, and earning the advertising
provider commission.
United States Patent Application Publication No. 2009/0044147 describes a system for saving
advertisements presented on a web page to an online location which may be accessed at a
later time. However, the system presented greatly restricts the means by which the user may
access those saved advertisements - requiring that they visit a separate webpage to do so.
Additionally, with the increasing adoption of internet based messaging and social networking
services, users want to share their digital experiences with other parties.             Many social
networking services, such as FacebookTM and Google PIusTM, provide widgets which enable
users to post messages to their site with details regarding the web pages on which the widgets
are hosted, or become associated with a particular entity, group, or event.
However, as with the advertising system of US 2009/0044147, such widgets are limited in terms
of options available to users - particularly regarding their ability to interact with other users or
services while remaining at the original location.
It is an object of the present invention to address the foregoing problems or at least to provide
the public with a useful choice.
All references, including any patents or patent applications cited in this specification are hereby
incorporated by reference. No admission is made that any reference constitutes prior art. The
discussion of the references states what their authors assert, and the applicants reserve the
right to challenge the accuracy and pertinency of the cited documents.             It will be clearly
understood that, although a number of prior art publications are referred to herein, this
reference does not constitute an admission that any of these documents form part of the
common general knowledge in the art, in New Zealand or in any other country.
Throughout this specification, the words "comprise" and "include", or variations thereof such as
"comprises" or "comprising", or "includes" or "including", will be understood to imply the
inclusion of a stated element, integer or step, or group of elements integers or steps, but not
the exclusion of any other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
Further aspects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the
ensuing description which is given by way of example only.
                                                   2

133888AUDIV
DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a computer implemented
method, comprising:
        displaying, on a user device, a web page hosted by a web server device of a content
provider, the web page comprising a self-contained block of script executable by a web browser
to display a visible social network icon;
        receiving, from a user input device of the user device, a signal indicating either a first
type of selection or a second type of selection of either the social network icon or an element of
the webpage other than the social network icon by a user of the user device;
        wherein the first type of selection comprises one of: a left-click of a mouse, a touch
gesture on a touch screen or a touch pad equivalent of a left-click of a mouse, and a voice
command equivalent of a left click of a mouse, without prior selection of a control option, and
receiving the first type of selection of the social network icon causes a link to an online resource
associated with the social network provider to be followed by the web browser, the online
resource enabling the user to login to a social network operated by at least one server device
provided by the social network provider, and
        wherein the second type of selection comprises one of: a right-click of a mouse, a touch
gesture on a touch screen or a touch pad equivalent of a right-click of a mouse, and a voice
command equivalent of a right-click of a mouse, without prior selection of a control option,
wherein receiving the second type of selection of the element of the webpage other than the
social network icon causes display of a context menu standard to the web browser, and
        wherein receiving the second type of selection of the social network icon causes:
                execution of the script associated with the social network icon by the web
        browser to display a user interface unique to the social network icon within the web
        page, the user interface displayed within the web page, wherein the user interface
        comprises a menu displaying selectable control options, the control options including at
        least:
                         a save web page control function, selection of which causes saving, by
                the at least one server device, details of the web page together with a user
                identifier to a storage hub remote from the user device and provided by the
                social network provider;
                         a saved web page access function, selection of which causes:
                                                    3

133888AUDIV
                                accessing, by the at least one server device in bidirectional
                        communication with the remote storage hub, user specific information
                        including the user identifier;
                                accessing, by the at least one server device, of details of at least
                        one web page previously saved by the user to the storage hub with the
                        user identifier, and
                                transmitting the details of the at least one previously saved web
                        page to the user device for display to the user within a secondary
                        interface overlaying the web page displayed by the web browser on the
                        user device.
According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a system comprising:
       a web server device of a content provider; and
       a user device comprising at least one processor, and at least one non-transitory
machine readable storage medium storing instructions, which when executed by the at least
one processor cause the system to:
                receive, for display on the user device, a web page hosted by the web server
       device of the content provider, the web page comprising a self-contained block of script
       executable by a web browser to display a visible social network icon;
                receive, from a user input device of the user device, a signal indicating either a
       first type of selection or a second type of selection of the social network icon being
       selected by a user of the user device;
                wherein the first type of selection comprises one of: a left-click of a mouse, a
       touch gesture on a touch screen or a touch pad equivalent of a left-click of a mouse,
       and a voice command equivalent of a left click of a mouse, without prior selection of a
       control option, and receiving the first type of selection of the social network icon causes
       a link to an online resource associated with a social network provider to be followed by
       the web browser, the online resource enabling the user to login to a social network
       operated by at least one server device provided by the social network provider, and
                wherein the second type of selection comprises one of: a right-click of a mouse,
       a touch gesture on a touch screen or a touch pad equivalent of a right-click of a mouse,
       and a voice command equivalent of a right-click of a mouse, without prior selection of a
       control option, wherein receiving the second type of selection of the element of the
                                                   4

133888AUDIV
        webpage other than the social network icon causes display of a context menu standard
        to the web browser, and
                wherein receiving the second type of selection of the social network icon causes:
                execution of the script associated with the social network icon by the web
        browser to display a user interface unique to the social network icon within the webpage,
        the user interface displayed within the web page, wherein the user interface comprises a
        menu displaying selectable control options to be displayed within the web page, the
        control options including at least:
                         a save web page control function, selection of which causes saving, by
                the at least one server device, details of the web page together with a user
                identifier to a storage hub remote from the user device and provided by the
                social network provider;
                         a saved web page access function, selection of which causes:
                         accessing,   by   the   at   least one   server   device    in   bidirectional
                communication with the remote storage hub, user specific information including
                the user identifier;
                         accessing, by the at least one server device, of details of at least one web
                page previously saved by the user to the storage hub with the user identifier, and
                        transmitting the details of the at least one previously saved web page to
                the user device for display to the user within a secondary interface overlaying the
                web page displayed by the web browser on the user device.
According to an aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of accessing at
least one hub, including:
        displaying a selectable item within an interface;
        receiving a selection of the selectable item from a user of the interface,
        wherein receiving a first type of selection by the user causes a function to be performed,
and
        wherein receiving a second type of selection by the user causes user specific
information to be accessed from the hub and used in bidirectional communication with the hub.
According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a user interface,
including:
                                                    5

133888AUDIV
         a selectable item displayed within the interface;
         the selectable item configured to determine that a selection of the selectable item from a
user of the interface has occurred,
         wherein receiving a first type of selection by the user causes a function to be performed,
and
         wherein receiving a second type of selection by the user causes user specific
information to be accessed from the hub and used in bidirectional communication with the hub.
According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a system including:
         at least one processor; and
         at least one computer readable tangible storage medium storing logic, which when
executed by the at least one processor is operable to:
                 display a selectable item within an interface;
                 receive a selection of the selectable item from a user of the interface,
                 wherein receiving a first type of selection by the user causes a function to be
         performed, and
                 wherein receiving a second type of selection by the user causes user specific
         information to be accessed from the hub and used in bidirectional communication with
         the hub.
Reference to an interface should be understood to mean a program that controls the display of
information to the user, allowing the user to interact with a system and associated content.
In a preferred embodiment the interface may be a web page displayed by a web browser.
Reference may now be made throughout the specification to the interface being a web page. It
should be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting, and that the interface may take
other forms - for example an application running a game, an application, or a media player.
A web page may include data records, such as plain textual information or more complex
digitally encoded multimedia content, such as software programs or other code objections,
graphics, images, audio signals videos, and so forth.
One prevalent language for creating web pages is Hypertext Markup Language (HTML). Other
common web browser supported languages and technologies includes the Extensible Markup
                                                   6

133888AUDIV
Language (XML), the Extensible Hypertext Markup Language (XHTML), JavaScript, Cascading
Style Sheet (CSS), and Java.
By way of example, HTML may enable a structured web page to be developed by denoting
structural semantics for text and links, as well as images, web application and other objects that
can be embedded within the page.          During a user's interaction with a web page, the web
browser interprets and displays the pages and associated resources received or retrieved from
the website hosting the page, as well as resources potentially from other websites.
Generally, an HTML based web page is created using HTML elements consisting of tags which
act as indicators to a web browser as to how the associated information is to be interpreted by
the web browser and ultimately presented as an interface on a user's display.
Reference to a selectable item should be understood to mean any element displayed within the
interface which is capable of being selected by the user.
All references to the terms "selectable item" and/or "network gateway" and embodiments
thereof will be understood to imply the inclusion of any element or group of elements which may
be visible or made visible in the interface such that a user may select the item using any
hardware or virtual interface device, either directly or indirectly, with the purpose of activating
any function or functions of those additional elements relating to the selectable item.
It is envisaged that the code or script for the selectable item and associated functions may be
inserted into an interface as a self-contained block. By removing reliance on the application
providing the interface to supply functionality, the features may be more readily accessed by
users without the need for installation and maintenance of local software.
Preferably the selectable item enables bidirectional communication between the interface and
the hub.     Bidirectional communication should be understood to be the communication of
instructions or data to the hub from the interface, and receiving data from the hub at the
interface.
In a preferred embodiment the selectable item may be an advertisement. The advertisement
may be imported to the interface and the content targeted to the user as known in the art.
It should be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting and that the selectable item may
take other forms.     For example, in another embodiment the selectable item may be an icon
associated with a service provider - for example a social network provider.             In another
exemplary embodiment, the selectable item may be a search result presented by a search
engine in response to a search query. Alternatively, the selectable item may be an article on a
blog or media provider website.
                                                  7

133888AUDIV
It is envisaged that the selectable item may be marked in such a way that users are aware of
the availability of the features of the present invention within that item.           For example,
advertisements may be marked with a consistent highlighting theme.
Implementation of the present invention using such selectable items will be discussed further
below.
Reference to a hub should be understood to mean any processing device configured to
manage or facilitate access to resources, content or services maintained on a device, or
network of devices. Storage devices accessed by the processing device of the hub may be
considered to be part of the hub. It should be appreciated that reference to various functions
being performed by, or content delivered from the hub is intended to include the hub acting as a
gateway for connection to other hubs or devices from which the functions or content originate
from.
It is envisaged that the hub may be a server device or devices operated by service providers
associated with the selectable item. It should be appreciated that in some embodiments, the
hub may be a partition of a server or collection of servers also providing the interface.
In a preferred embodiment, the method of the present invention may include the step of
delivering content to the user, wherein the content is not otherwise available at the interface.
In an embodiment the invention may further include the step of determining the content to be
delivered to the user based at least in part on the user specific information.
The user specific information may include, for example, preferences set by the user, or settings
derived from user behavior or profile - including factors such as age, sex, location, interests
and so on.
Preferably the content is delivered to the user in at least one secondary interface.
Reference to a secondary interface should be understood to be any means known to a person
skilled in the art by which content from the remote location may be displayed within the original
interface, or in some embodiments a separate interface either logically or physically - for
example a separate window or monitor.
In a preferred embodiment the secondary interface is located within the interface, and more
particularly directly inserted into the interface.
The secondary interface may be considered a portal via which the user accesses the hub from
the interface.
                                                   8

133888AUDIV
For example, the secondary interface may be an IFRAME configured to display content from
the hub. Alternatively, the secondary interface may be a DIV or similar construct whose content
is dynamically set to the content from the hub.
Via the secondary interface, the user may be able to access a number of functions.            For
example, the user may be able to save details regarding the selectable item or the interface
within which it is located, and view previously saved details. The user may be able to access
interpersonal communication services provided by the remote location - whether text, video, or
voice based.
In a preferred embodiment, selection of the selectable item opens a menu including control
options for accessing content from the hub.
It is envisaged that the menu may be a context menu including only options for accessing the
hub. Preferably the at least one control option may include at least one option for opening at
least one secondary interface. It should be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting,
and that the context menu may include these options in addition to standard options associated
with the interface in general.
It is envisaged that the menu may take a format that is related to the hub or hubs to which it is
connected, and may take any appearance as appropriate to the specific embodiment.
For example, the menu may be a DIV or similar construct whose content is set by the script
which is inserted along with the selectable item or network gateway, and take a form similar to
a familiar context menu. This is not intended to be limiting concerning the appearance of a
menu.
Preferably, the menu may be displayed on receiving the second type of selection.
In a preferred embodiment, accessing the user specific information includes accessing the user
specific information from the hub, using means for establishing bidirectional communication
associated with the selectable item at the interface.
For example, the user specific information from the hub may be accessed using a script
associated with the selectable item configured to communicate with the hub.
Further, it is envisaged that accessing the user specific information from the hub may use an
identifier associated with the user.
In one embodiment the identifier may be stored on a user device on which the interface is
displayed.
In a preferred embodiment the identifier may be stored in at least one cookie.
                                                 9

133888AUDIV
A cookie (also known as a tracking cookie, browser cookie, or HTTP cookie) is generally a
small string or segment of text that may be transmitted to a user device and stored at the user
device by a web browser (or other application implementing the present invention).              More
specifically, a cookie may store, by way of example, user preferences or any other data used by
a server or web site.
The entity responsible for the selectable item may formulate and transmit an HTTP response to
selection of the item that includes an HTTP header having the parameters for the cookie (e.g.,
in the form of text) and requesting the user's web browser to set at least one cookie based on
the parameters in the HTTP header.
It is envisaged that the identifier may include encryption associated with a particular interface.
For example, an encryption key having the domain name of a host website may be used in
conjunction with a global identifier. This could create different identifiers for each domain, while
retaining the ability to retain a core identity maintained by a central server managing the
system.    Alternatively, the identifier may be secured by attaching a key related to a domain of
the hub.
It should be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting, and that the identifier may be
any suitable means known in the art - such as a user name and associated password.
However, it is envisaged that by storing the identifier in a cookie, a user may gain access to the
functions of the present invention without necessarily going through the process of obtaining a
login and password.        This may be for the purpose of remaining anonymous, or simply
convenience to the user.
The identifier may be assigned by any suitable means known to a person skilled in the art. For
example, the identifier may be assigned by the hub based on an algorithm, the arguments for
which include an assignment of bits to each new request for an identifier.
In another example, the identifier may be assigned by the hub based on a feature of the user
device on which the interface is displayed, or the web browser running it.              It should be
appreciated that these are not intended to be limiting, but are exemplary of possible means for
assigning the identifier.
In one embodiment, a new identifier may be assigned to the user, wherein the new identifier is
linked to the previous identifier.
Preferably the new identifier is obtained by a login to the hub, and at least a portion of
previously created user specific information is associated with the new identifier.
                                                 10

133888AUDIV
In doing so, the user may retain information gathered in the course of using the interface before
they had the time or inclination to log in to the hub or service with which the hub is used.
In a preferred embodiment the user may request that at least one detail associated with the
selectable item be recorded at the hub.
The at least one detail associated with the selectable item may include details of the interface.
For example, the details may include the URL or network location of the interface, and at least
part of the content contained within the interface. As an illustration, where the page includes an
article the details may include a title and brief description, or where the page includes a video
the details may include subject matter and length.
In a preferred embodiment the content delivered to the interface may includes at least one
detail of content previously saved by the user. Further examples will be given in the detailed
description, but in one embodiment it is envisaged that the content may include an
advertisement previously saved to the hub by a user.
In a preferred embodiment, the content may include at least one reminder associated with
content previously saved by the user.        For example, a previously saved advertisement may
have a date by which the associated offer expires - and the reminder may include such details.
The content may include means for communication between the user and at least one other
user. For example, the content may include a chat interface, a comment form, an email service
or instant messaging service, or any other suitable interpersonal communication means known
to a person skilled in the art.
Preferably the content may include at least one notification.          For example, in a preferred
embodiment the notification may include details of an online auction the user is participating in.
In a further example, the notification may include a reminder regarding a calendar event.
In a preferred embodiment the notification includes at least one message from at least one
other user.    By providing the ability to deliver messages to a user at the interface they are
currently accessing, the likelihood of a user being made aware of a message being received
may be improved. Further, the user does not need to refer back to another interface in order to
receive notification of the message.
In one embodiment, the content may include an indication of an online status of at least one
contact associated with the user specific information. It is envisaged that the user may then be
able to activate means for communication with an online contact directly from the notification.
                                                   11

133888AUDIV
In a preferred embodiment the content may include an invitation to access another interface
currently being viewed by at least one contact associated with the user specific information.
Similarly, the content may include the means by which a user issues an invitation to a contact.
The interface currently being viewed by the at least one other user may then be opened on
accepting the invitation, or displayed within a secondary interface.
In one embodiment, the selectable item and/or associated script (later referred to as an
authentication element) may be configured to perform a function on determining the presence
of an identifier associated with the hub. It is envisaged that this may occur with, or without
selection of the selectable item by the user.
For example, the hub may store details regarding content previously saved to the hub. Such
details may include expiry dates for content - for examples advertisements which have been
stored for a certain amount of time without review by the user, or for which a particular offer is
due to expire. A reminder regarding such details may be issued to the user.
For example, the colour of the selectable item may change, the item may flash, or a secondary
interface may open displaying the content for review.
In one embodiment the selectable item must be selected by the user prior to the reminder being
delivered to the interface.
Alternatively, it may be automatically determined whether the user has an associated identifier,
and deliver the reminder or notification to the interface without selection of the selectable item.
Reference to a selecting action or selection should be understood to be any suitable means
known to a person skilled in the art by which a user may indicate selection of the selectable
item.
Selecting actions may be performed by any number of user input devices - for example mouse
clicks, gestures captured by a mouse, touchscreen, or camera, or voice commands captured by
a microphone.
Reference to a type of selecting action should be understood to be any means by which one
form of user input may be differentiated from another.
In a preferred embodiment, one type of selecting action results from clicking a primary mouse
button, while another type of selecting action results from clicking a secondary mouse button.
Alternatively, or additionally, the number of times an action is performed (for example a "double
click"), or the order in which actions are performed, may be examples of different type of
selecting action.
                                                  12

133888AUDIV
Similarly, different gestures, input from other devices and/or words/sounds may constitute
different types of selecting action.   It should further be appreciated that such actions may not
target the selectable item within its visual boundaries, but may be interpreted by script within
the interface associated with the selectable item.
Preferably the function performed in response to the first type of selecting action is standard to
the interface.   In particular, the function performed in response to the first type of selecting
action may be a default means for activating items within the interface. For example, where the
selectable item includes a hyperlink, the standard function would be to follow the hyperlink
according to the interface setup (same window, new window, new tab and so forth).
It is envisaged that in doing so, the present invention may enable existing intuitive
understanding of interface navigation to be maintained while introducing new options in the
form of unique functions.
However, it should be appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting, and that the function
performed in response to the first type of selecting action may also be a unique function.
Reference to a unique function should be understood to mean a function which is unique to the
selectable item, or type of selectable item, in the context of the interface within which it is
displayed.
The unique function or functions may include the means for bidirectional communication and/or
menu discussed above.           In some embodiments, the unique function may not include
bidirectional communication.
For example, the unique function may include the saving of details of the selectable item or
interface associated with the selectable item, without viewing previously saved details.
A method of accessing content from a social network hub, including:
        providing at least one social network access item within a web page hosted by a web
server device;
        accessing user specific information from a social network hub using a script associated
with the social network access item;
        delivering content from the social network hub to the web page based on the user
specific information, wherein content includes at least one notification of at least one event
associated with the user specific information.
A method of accessing content from a social network hub, including:
                                                  13

133888AUDIV
        providing at least one social network access item within a web page hosted by a web
server device;
        accessing user specific information from a social network hub using a script associated
with the social network access item;
        delivering content from the social network hub to the web page based on the user
specific information, wherein content includes an indication of an online status of at least one
contact associated with the user specific information.
The user specific information may be accessed by any number of means, as previously
discussed. In particular, it is known for social network providers to maintain a logged in status
for users having previously accessed the social network provider's website. It is envisaged that
the present invention may utilize this to obtain the user specific information.
In a preferred embodiment the notification includes at least one message from at least one
other user.
In a preferred embodiment the message includes an invitation to access a web page currently
being viewed by at least one contact associated with the user specific information.
Preferably acceptance of the invitation opens the web page currently being viewed by the at
least one other user.
In an alternative embodiment the notification includes a reminder regarding a calendar event.
In a preferred embodiment the at least one control option includes at least one option for
accessing at least one resource of the social network hub.
In a preferred embodiment the resource is a messaging application.
A method for acting on one or more search results in a search results page, including:
        providing a search results page including one or more search results determined in
response to a search query received from a user;
        receiving a selection of at least one search result from the user,
        wherein receiving a first type of selection by the user causes a link to an online resource
associated with the selected search result to be followed, and
        wherein receiving a second type of selection enables delivery of details of at least one
previously saved search result to the search results page within a secondary interface.
                                                  14

133888AUDIV
Preferably the method includes saving details of the search result to a remote storage device
following receiving the second type of selection.
Preferably receiving the second type of selection causes at least one control option to be
displayed to the user.
Preferably the at least one control options includes an option for accessing the details of the at
least one previously saved search result.
It should be appreciated that the search result may generally function in a manner as described
with reference to the selectable item.
A method of accessing content from an advertising hub, including:
        providing at least one advertising item within a web page hosted by a web server device;
        accessing user specific information from an advertising hub using a script associated
with the advertising item;
        delivering content from the advertising hub to the web page based on the user specific
information, wherein content includes at least one notification of at least one event associated
with the user specific information.
Preferably the content may be displayed in a secondary interface, as previously discussed.
It should be appreciated that the advertising item may generally function in a manner as
described with reference to the selectable item.      The advertising item may also be generally
referred to as an advertisement.
Preferably the notification is issued in on determining that a date for reminding the user
regarding at least one previously saved advertising item has been reached.
A method for acting on one or more advertising items within a web page hosted by a web
server device, including:
        receiving a selection of the advertising item from a user of the interface,
        wherein receiving a first type of selection by the user causes a link to an online resource
associated with the advertising item to be followed, and
        wherein receiving a second type of selection enables delivery of details of at least one
previously saved advertising item to the web page within a secondary interface.
                                                  15

133888AUDIV
Preferably the method includes saving details of the advertising item to a remote storage device
following receiving the second type of selection.
In one embodiment, receiving the second type of selection may cause at least one control
option to be displayed to the user.
Preferably the at least one control option includes an option for accessing the details of the at
least one previously saved search result.
Preferably the at least one control option includes an option for setting a date for a reminder
notification to be issued.
In a preferred embodiment, selection of the details of the previously saved advertising item is
recorded at the advertising hub.
It is envisaged that this selection of the previously saved advertising item may be used for the
purpose of determining commission to be charged to an advertiser associated with the subject
of the advertising item.
According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method for accessing
content from a hub, including the steps of:
         receiving, at a hub, a query from an authentication element associated with an interface
displayed to a user;
         returning user specific information regarding the user accessing the interface to the
authentication element; and
         accessing content from the hub via at least one network gateway element associated
with the interface, the content based at least in part on the user specific information.
Reference to an authentication element should be understood to mean code or script within the
interface which is configured to connect to the server device or remote location in order to
retrieve information associated with a user.
In a preferred embodiment, the authentication element may be configured to automatically
query the hub in order to obtain the user specific information. However, this is not intended to
be limiting, as the authentication element may require activation, for example on the user
selecting the network gateway element.
In a preferred embodiment, the user specific information is associated with an identifier as
previously discussed.
A network gateway element may contain an authentication element.
                                                  16

133888AUDIV
Reference to a network gateway element should be understood to be any suitable means
known to a person skilled in the art by which a user may gain access to content from the hub at
the interface.
The network gateway may be a selectable item as previously discussed, or at least perform
some of the functions thereof. The content accessed from the hub may be associated with
those functions.
For example, the network gateway may open an email interface within the existing interface,
listing contacts associated with the user by their user specific information.
It should be appreciated that the network gateway element itself need not be visible to the user,
but may automatically perform functions in response to the user specific information and user
settings.
As another example, the network gateway may open a display within the interface listing
previously saved advertisements which are due to expire, whether requested by the user or not.
Similarly, the hub may be any of the hubs previously described, a standalone hub, or a hub via
which other hubs are accessed.
For a firmware and/or software (also known as a computer program) implementation, the
techniques of the present invention may be implemented as instructions (for example,
procedures, functions, and so on) that perform the functions described.            It should be
appreciated that the present invention is not described with reference to any particular
programming languages, and that a variety of programming languages could be used to
implement the present invention.      The firmware and/or software codes may be stored in a
memory, or embodied in any other processor readable medium, and executed by a processor
or processors.    The memory may be implemented within the processor or external to the
processor.
A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the processor
may be any processor, controller, microcontroller, or state machine. A processor may also be
implemented as a combination of computing devices, for example, a combination of a digital
signal processor (DSP) and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more
microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.             The
processors may function in conjunction with servers and network connections as known in the
art.
The steps of a method, process, or algorithm described in connection with the present invention
may be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module executed by a processor, or in a
combination of the two. The various steps or acts in a method or process may be performed in
                                                 17

133888AUDIV
the order shown, or may be performed in another order. Additionally, one or more process or
method steps may be omitted or one or more process or method steps may be added to the
methods and processes. An additional step, block, or action may be added in the beginning,
end, or intervening existing elements of the methods and processes.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
Further aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the ensuing description
which is given by way of example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings in
which:
FIG. 1         presents a schematic diagram of an exemplary system according to one
               embodiment of the present invention;
FIG. 2a        presents a user interface according to an exemplary embodiment of the present
               invention;
FIG. 2b        presents a focus view on a portion of a user interface according to an exemplary
               embodiment of the present invention;
FIG. 2c        presents a focus view of a portion of a user interface according to an exemplary
               embodiment of the present invention;
FIG. 3a        presents a user interface according to another exemplary embodiment of the
               present invention;
FIG. 3b        presents a focus view of a portion of a user interface according to another
               exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
FIG. 4a        presents a user interface according to a further exemplary embodiment of the
               present invention;
FIG. 4b        presents a focus view on a portion of a user interface according to a further
               exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
FIG. 4c        presents a focus view of a portion of a user interface according to a further
               exemplary embodiment of the present invention;
FIG. 5         presents a user interface according to an exemplary embodiment of the present
               invention;
FIG. 6         presents a flow diagram illustrating a method according to one exemplary
               embodiment of the present invention, and
                                                18

133888AUDIV
FIG. 7          presents a flow diagram illustrating a method according to one exemplary
                embodiment of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
FIG. 1 illustrates a system 100 in which various embodiments of the present invention may be
implemented.
The various components of the system 100 communicate over a network 101.               In one
embodiment, the network 101 shown includes the Internet.        In other embodiments, other
networks, such as an intranet, WAN, or LAN may be used. It should be appreciated that the
network 101 may include a combination of suitable networks to establish a communication link.
The system 100 includes a number of hubs in the form of server devices 102, 103, 104, and
105 connected to the network 101.
The server devices 102, 103, 104, and 105 shown in FIG. 1 each contain a processor 106, 107,
108, and 109 coupled to a computer readable medium, such as memory 110, 111, 112, and
113.    Server devices 102, 103, 104, and 105 also communicate with computer readable
medium storage devices 114, 115, 116, and 117, such as magnetic disk storage devices.
Server devices 102, 103, 104, and 105, depicted as single computer system, may be
implemented as a network of computer processors. Examples of server devices 102, 103, 104,
and 105 are servers, mainframe computers, networked computers, processor-based devices
and similar types of systems and devices.
In an exemplary embodiment, the functionality hosted by the server devices 102, 103, 104, and
105 may include web or HTTP servers, FTP servers as well as, without limitation, web pages
and applications implemented using Common Gateway Interface (CGI) script, PHP Hyper-text
Preprocessor (PHP), Active Server Pages (ASP), Hyper Test Markup Language (HTML), or
Extensible Markup Language (XML), Java, JavaScript, Asynchronous JavaScript and XML
(AJAX), and the like.
A number of client devices, such as personal computer 118, mobile phone 119, and digital
tablet 120, are also capable of connecting to the network 101.
Other examples of client devices are digital assistants, personal digital assistants, cellular
phones, smart phones, pagers, laptop computers, Internet appliances, and other processor
based devices.      In general, a client device may be any type of suitable processor-based
platform that is capable of displaying an interface and connecting to the network 101.    The
client devices may also include a number of external or internal devices such as a mouse, a
touchpad or screen, a camera, a microphone, a keyboard, a display, or other input or output
devices.
                                                19

133888AUDIV
Client devices may operate on any operating system, such as MicrosoftTM Windows      TM or Linux.
In particular, the client devices may be capable of supporting a browser or browser-enable
application.
The client devices 118, 119, and 120, and server devices 102, 103, 104, and 105 may connect
to the network 101 through wired, wireless or any other suitable connections.
In one embodiment, server device 102 may be operated by a social network provider.
The social network provider is an entity or person that provides social networking services,
communication services, dating services, company intranets, and/or online games, etc. The
social network provider may assemble and store profiles of users, for example users of client
devices 118, 119, and 120 for use in providing the social networking services.
Examples of services which may be provided by a social network provider include hosted user
pages to which users may post and share content such as messages, photographs, video, or
links which may be accessed by other users (whether restricted or not), chat services, and so
on.
FIG. 2a illustrates an interface with which one aspect of the invention may be implemented.
The interface is a web page 200 displayed by a web browser 201 accessed using one of the
client devices 118, 119, or 120 of FIG. 1. The web page 200 includes content 203.            The
content 203 may take a number of forms - for example text (such as an article), images, video,
or a combination thereof.
The web page 200 also includes a selectable item in the form of a social network provider icon
204 which may act as a web gateway element.
The web page 200 may include an authentication element in the form of script which
determines whether the client device has an associated identifier within a cookie stored locally
on that device, and communicates with social network server device 102 to identify the user
based on that identifier.
If the cookie does not exist, a new identifier may be generated and stored for the user.        It
should be appreciated that where the user is not registered with the social network provider, the
user may be prompted to sign up, or may only be capable of accessing certain functions which
allow for anonymous use.
The script may do so automatically on the web page 200 being loaded, or on selection of the
icon 204 as will be described below.
                                                20

133888AUDIV
In one embodiment the icon 204 may have a first function which is performed on selection by a
first type of selecting action (for example a left click of a mouse). For example, it is currently
known for selection of social network provider icons to post a link to the user's social network
page in order to notify their contacts of the link.
On selecting the icon 204 with a second type of selecting action (for example, a right click), a
popup menu 205 may be displayed. It should be appreciated that the menu may take other
forms, but it is envisaged that a popup menu may provide a means by which users may
intuitively access additional functions.       Simultaneously, the authentication element may
communicate with the social network server device 102 to identify the user, or the
authentication element may have done so already.
The menu 205 may over-ride existing menus provided by the browser 201, for example using a
DIV element.
The menu 205 may include a standard options section 206 to preserve standard functionality of
the browser 201 for a right click if so desired.
Alternatively the user may be presented with an option to activate the standard menu if it has
been overridden, or to temporarily disable the menu 205 to give access to the standard menu.
The menu 205 also includes a social network options section 207 via which the user may
access functions unique to the icon 204 within the webpage 200. It should be appreciated that
the content delivered to the interface is based on user specific information - such as preferred
options for the menu 205 and contacts presented to the user in the various communications
functions described below.
For example, the menu 205 may include a recommend option 208, whereby details of the
content 203 such as title, description and/or a hyperlink to same are presented on the user's
social network page, or within a feed displayed on the social network page of the user's
contacts.
The options 207 may include an editable post option 209, whereby a user may enter a
comment into a text entry field 210 to be posted to their social network page without leaving the
web page 200. This may act as an extension of the recommend option 208 where details of the
content 203 are automatically included with the user comment. Alternatively, this may function
as a means for the user to access the post comment function of their social network page
without leaving the web page 200.
The options 207 may further include an invite option 211, to be described further with reference
to FIG. 2b.
                                                  21

133888AUDIV
FIG. 2b shows a portion of the web page 200 including the icon 204 and menu 205.
The invite option 211 has been activated by the user, and an online contacts list 212 displayed.
The online contacts list 212 is populated with contacts of the user who have been identified as
having access to social network functions by the social network server device 102.
Selection of one of the online contacts causes an invitation to be delivered to the selected
contact inviting them to access the web page 200 with the user.
For example, a contact of the user may be accessing another web page 213 having a social
network icon 214 by which they have been previously identified or logged in through.              An
invitation 215 may be displayed on the web page 213 identifying the user and providing the
contact with the options to accept 216, decline 217, or ignore 218 the invitation 215.
On acceptance, the contact may be directed to the URL of the web page 200. A means for
communication between the user and the contact may be opened via their respective icons 204
and 214, for example a chat window or a teleconference option (not illustrated).
It is also envisaged that a display (not illustrated) of the other parties current focus within their
view of the webpage may be presented to the user and contact. This may be achieved, for
example, by tracking movements of a mouse curser within the page and displaying a portion of
the page centering around the cursor.
Returning to FIG. 2a, the menu 205 may include a comments option 219. On selection of the
comments option 219, a comments interface 220 is opened within the web page 200. The
comments interface 220 includes a scrollable comments section 221 displaying comments
entered by users in association with the content 203. A text entry field 222 is provided to allow
the user to enter their own comments.
The comments may be delivered to a database associated with the web page in addition to the
storage device 114 of social media server 102. The comments stored by the site operator may
be updated by accessing the social network server 102, for example using a poll or push
system.
The menu 205 may further include a chat option 223. The chat option may have a number of
options available to it. For example, the user may choose to select contacts with whom they
communicate, or enter into a chat discussion with all people currently accessing the content
203 and interacting via social network icons on their respective web pages.
Further, the user may select whether to open a text or voice based communication channel for
the chat.
                                                  22

133888AUDIV
The menu 205 may further include a save option 224. Selection of the save option 224 may
cause the content 203, or the address of the web page 200 to be saved to storage device 114
of the server device 102, to be accessed later by the user.
Alternatively, the save option 224 may supply the user with tools, such as a clipping tool, to
select a certain area of the web page 200 to be saved and reviewed at a later date.
FIG. 2c illustrates alternative forms of menus to menu 205. It should be appreciated these are
not intended to be limited, but rather illustrate the flexibility of the present invention with regard
to providing accessibility options which may be personalized to the user, and transferred across
a range of interfaces.
Menu 225 includes a first set of option icons 226. Additional icons may be revealed using a
grab-and-drag action to scroll between the available options.            Such an action is becoming
increasingly used in touch screen based user devices and it is envisaged that menu 225 may
provide one way of easily and intuitively accessing the options.
Menu 227 includes a set of option icons laid out in a grid 228. The menu 227 further includes a
drop down list 229 from which the user may select options which they want to be displayed in
the grid. The user could drag the option icons to a preferred arrangement for a personalized
menu 227.
It should be appreciated that while the examples outlined above have been discussed with
reference to a web page within a web browser, the social network icon may be inserted into
other applications. For example, the icon may be present in the interface of an application such
as a game, and used to access the functions described via connection to the social network
server device 102.
This may be achieved, for example, by creating the authentication element and network
gateway element within an external library, or inlaying a web browser within the window of the
application.
In some embodiments only one unique function may be performed on the right click, or
alternatively the menu 205 may be presented or unique function such as the comments box
213 performed on selection with a left click.
In one embodiment, server device 103 may be operated by a search engine provider that
provides online searching services.
FIG. 3a illustrates an interface with which one aspect of the invention may be implemented.
                                                  23

133888AUDIV
The interface is a web page 300 displayed by a web browser 301 accessed using one of the
client devices 118, 119, or 120 of FIG. 1. The web page 300 includes a text entry field 302 into
which search queries may be entered.        Relevant results in response to the search query are
then displayed within the web page 300.
The form in which the results are displayed will depend on the parameters of the search. For
example, a user may designate that the search return results in the form of the URLs of
relevant websites, images, or maps.
FIG. 3a illustrates the results of a search for websites. Each result may be presented in the
form of a selectable item such as search result 303. The search result may include a hyperlink,
the URL, and a description of the result.       The search result 303 which may act as a web
gateway element.
It is envisaged that the web page 300 include an authentication element in the form of script
which determines whether the client device used to access the web page 300 has an
associated identifier within a cookie stored locally on that device, and communicates with
search engine server device 103 to identify the user based on that identifier.
In one embodiment, selecting the search result 303 with a left click of a mouse may cause the
web browser 301 to open the hyperlink associated with the search result 303.
On selecting the search result 303 with a right click, a pop up menu 304 may be displayed. The
menu 304 includes a standard options section 305 to preserve standard functionality of the
browser 301 for a right click if so desired. It is envisaged that this may be particularly useful in
the context of search engines where the context menu is regularly used to direct how the
browser 301 is to open the hyperlink, for example in a new tab or window.
The menu 304 also includes options via which the user may access functions unique to the
search engine provider.
A number or current search engine providers such as Google Inc and Yahoo! Inc also provide
messaging services - in particular email.
It is envisaged that the menu 304 may include a send option 306. Selection of the send option
306 may open an email interface 307. The email interface 307 includes a text entry field 308
into which an address may be entered, or an address may be found by selecting the contacts
button 309 accessing the user's contact list. An email containing details of the search result
303 may then be sent using the send button 310.
                                                  24

133888AUDIV
The menu 304 may also include a save option 311.           Selection of the save option 311 may
cause the search result 303 to be saved to storage device 115 of the server device 103, to be
accessed later by the user in a manner which will be described below.
Alternatively, the save option 311 may supply the user with tools, such as a clipping tool, to
select a certain area of the web page 300 (potentially including one or more search results) to
be saved and reviewed at a later date.
The menu 304 also includes an open saved results option 312. Selection of this option causes
a secondary interface to be displayed within the web page 300.
FIG. 3b illustrates the secondary interface in the form of a search result box 313 displaying
previously saved results 314, 315, and 316. By way of example, the search result box 313 may
be an IFRAME element loaded with content by the search engine server device 103.
Each saved search result 314, 315, and 316 may have a number of categories associated with
it. In the search result box 313 illustrated, these categories include 'Description' 317, 'Tag' 318,
and 'Date Saved' 319.       Search results may be removed or deleted by selecting individual
results using the remove option 320.
The Description 317 category may depend on the type of search result.
For example, search result 314 is a web site, and the description includes a hyperlink and
textual summary of content.
Search result 315 is an image, and as such a thumbnail of the image is displayed.
Search result 316 is a map, and the Description includes a hyperlink to the location or address
searched, and a textual description of same.
The user may enter a tag 318 for each result in order to identify the purpose of saving that
search result for later reference. The tag 318 may be selected from a list of options, or entered
manually by the user. In the example illustrated by FIG. 3b, the search results are all tagged as
being related to "Holiday" - following a search conducted by the user for potential holiday
destinations.
The search results 314, 315, 316 may be sorted within the search result box 313, for example
by date saved, or tag.
In one embodiment, server device 104 may be operated by an advertising provider that
provides online advertising services. Such services may include, for example, the distribution
of advertisements to web sites having designated areas for advertising. It is well known for web
                                                  25

133888AUDIV
sites to derive a revenue stream from hosting advertisements - particularly based on the
number of "click-throughs" or times an advertisement is selected by users of the website.
FIG. 4a illustrates an interface with which an aspect of the invention may be implemented.
The interface is a web page 400 displayed by a web browser 401 accessed using one of the
client devices 118, 119, or 120 of FIG. 1. The web page 400 includes content 402, for example
an article, a video, search results and so on.
The web page 400 includes at least one advertisement 403 which may act as a web gateway
element.
It is envisaged that the web page 400 or the advertisement 403 include an authentication
element in the form of script which determines whether the client device used to access the
web page 400 has an associated identifier within a cookie stored locally on that device, and
communicates with advertising server device 104 to identify the user based on that identifier.
The content of the advertisement may be dynamically determined based at least in part on the
identifier.
In one embodiment, selecting the advertisement 403 with a left click of a mouse may cause the
web browser 401 to open the hyperlink associated with the advertisement 403.
In another embodiment, selecting the advertisement 403 with a left click may cause the size of
the advertisement 403 on the web page 400 to expand, potentially displaying additional
features or details to the user.
On selecting the advertisement 403 with a right click or other alternative selection method, a
pop up menu 404 may be displayed. The menu 404 includes options via which the user may
access functions unique to the advertising provider.
For example, the menu 404 includes a buy now option 405. Selection of the buy now option
405 may take the user directly to the checkout of the entity with which the advertisement is
associated. The checkout may be within a new interface - for example replacing the web page
400, or opening a new window or tab. Alternatively, the checkout may be displayed within a
secondary interface hosted by the advertising server device 104 and opened within the web
page 400 via the advertisement 403.
It is envisaged that the identifier of the present invention may be used to access financial
information associated with the user - i.e. credit card details, store credit, or virtual wallet
balance - it order to effect the transaction without requiring entry of further details.    This
functionality may be achieved by communication with another hub set up to handle such
                                                26

133888AUDIV
financial transactions, or based on user specific information held by the advertising server
device 104.
The menu 404 further includes a save option 406, enabling the user to save details of the
advertisement 403 to a remote location for later access by the user in a manner which will be
discussed below. For example, the remote location may be the advertising storage device 116.
The menu 404 further includes a reminder option 407, which is further illustrated by FIG. 4b.
Selection of the reminder option 407 presents a reminder settings panel 408. Units of time for
the reminder may be selected, for example, from a drop down list 409. The number of units
may be entered, for example via a text entry field 410. The user may also select whether the
timing of the reminder is from the present time using 'From now' option button 411, or based on
the expiry date of the advertisement 403 using 'Before expiry' option button 412.
Returning to FIG. 4a, the menu 404 may include a send option 413 which may function in a
similar manner to send option 306 described in connection with FIG. 3a.
The menu 404 may also include an open saved advertisements option 414. Selection of this
option causes a secondary interface to be displayed within the web page 400.
FIG. 4c illustrates the secondary interface in the form of a saved advertisements box 415
displaying previously saved advertisements 416, 417, and 418. By way of example, the saved
advertisement box 415 may be an IFRAME element loaded with content by the advertising
server device 104 based at least in part on the identifier determined for the user.
Each saved advertisement 416, 417, and 418 may have a number of details associated with it.
In the saved advertisement box 415 illustrated, these details include 'Source' 419, 'Ad details'
420, 'Expiry' 421, 'Reminder' 422 and 'Category' 423.          Advertisements may be manually
deleted by any suitable means known to a person skilled in the art.
The Source 419 detail is the web site on which the advertisement was hosted when it was
selected.   The Source 419 detail may include a hyperlink for the user to follow.     If a saved
advertisement is selected by a user, the source website and/or the advertising provider or
exchange may receive at least a portion of the commission associated with that click through.
The Ad details 420 may include a description of the advertisement, and a link to the advertiser's
desired destination for the user.
The Expiry 421 detail shows the date by which the advertisement will expire.
The Reminder 422 detail shows when the user is due to be reminded regarding the existence of
the saved advertisement.
                                                27

133888AUDIV
The Category 423 detail may be selected from a list of options, previously associated with the
saved advertisement, or entered manually by the user.
The advertisements 416, 417, and 418 may be ordered in any manner desired by the user - for
example in order of proximity to the expiry or reminder date/time.
A submenu 424 may be available within the saved advertisements box 415 to assist in editing
reminder dates for each advertisement, and sharing the advertisement with contacts of the
user.
The advertising server device 104 may be configured to dynamically configure advertisements
presented to the user both based on the identifier, and also details of the advertisements
previously selected to be saved by the user.
It should be appreciated that the features and functions over the exemplary embodiments may
be interchanged or shared.
For example, in one embodiment, server device 105 may be configured as a central hub
through which the functions of the social network server device 102, search engine server
device 103, and advertising server device 104 are performed. Alternatively, the central server
device 105 may provide access to unique functions or services not associated with the other
entities.
FIG. 5 illustrates an interface with which one aspect of the invention may be implemented.
The interface is a web page 500 displayed by a web browser 501 accessed using one of the
client devices 118, 119, or 120 of FIG. 1. The web page includes an authentication element
(not shown) in the form of script which determines whether the client device has an associated
identifier within a cookie stored locally on that device, and communicates with central server
device 105 to identify the user based on that identifier.
Once identified, a network gateway element in the web page 500 allows for the web page 500
to be customized according to user specific information in the form of user preferences.
For example, context menu 502 is changed to include options associated with functions of the
central server device 105, or other server devices accessed via the central server device 105.
It is envisaged that standard context menu options 503 may be maintained within the context
menu 502.
Other functions may include:
     *  An email access option 504 enabling access to emails within the web page 500.          It
         should be appreciated that reference to email is not intended to exclude other forms of
                                                 28

133888AUDIV
         text based electronic messaging may be used - for example micro-blogging such as
         Twitter TM;
     *   An invite option 505 such as that described with reference to FIG. 2.         It should be
         appreciated that the contacts to be presented to the user may not be limited to one
         source such as a specific social network;
     *   A reminder option 506 such as that described with reference to FIG. 4. It is envisaged
         that this reminder may not be limited to advertisements, but effectively any form of
         content which the user wishes to be reminded of at a later time.
     *   Similarly to the reminder option 506, the open saved option 507 and save option 508
         may be used to collect a range of types of content and store same at a central location
         - for example within storage device 117.
A function which has not been discussed with reference to the other figures is the ability to
access a virtual wallet. The menu 502 may include a wallet option 509. The wallet may be
used as a reference for the balance of the user - whether virtual or real.
For example, the web page 500 may be that of an online retailer, and the user wishes to ensure
they have the funds before purchasing an item.          Further, the wallet may include additional
options such as for payment to the user's contacts or any other entity via the central server
device 105.
It is envisaged that the central server device 105 may be configured to deliver messages,
invitations, or other alerts to the user once they have been identified as accessing a web page
having the authentication element and network gateway element.
In an exemplary embodiment, an area 510 within the web page 500 may be designated to have
such deliveries displayed - for example email alert 511 and invitation 512.            It should be
appreciated that this is not intended to be limiting, and that the notifications may be delivered in
essentially any form and location desired.
The central server device 105 may be configured to provide interactive games to users. For
example, when two competing users are determined to be visiting the same page, a target 513
may be present to the users - with the first user to select their respective target 513 earning
points.
A further function which the central server device 105 may provide is the ability for the user to
customize the content or appearance of content supplied by the central server device 105 to a
web page the user is accessing. For example, an options tab 514 may be provided in the menu
502.
                                                  29

133888AUDIV
In the embodiments illustrated in the figures, it should be appreciated that the various menus,
secondary interfaces and messages which may be enabled by the present invention provide
platforms within which the entities providing these services may insert advertising.
For example, each customized context menu may include an advertisement portion. Similarly,
the storage boxes and/or message interfaces may be branded or include advertising. In doing
so, the entities are provided with the opportunity to extend their brand or at least increase
revenue from advertising in places where they would not otherwise have a presence.
FIG. 6 illustrates a method 600 for accessing content from a hub according to an embodiment
of the present invention. The various steps of the method may reference the preceding figures
by way of explanation, but are not intended to be limiting.
In step 601, a user requests a web page, for example a news site, from a host server.
In step 602 the host server formats the page for the user's browser, including insertion of an
authentication element and network gateway element (such as social network icon 204).
In step 603 the browser processes the web page and displays it to the user.
In step 604 the authentication element sends a query regarding the identity of the user to a
hub, for example social network hub 102 configured to provide access to content not otherwise
available at the web page.
In step 605 the hub returns user specific information to the authentication element, particularly
regarding user preferences for access to the social network hub.
In step 606 the social network icon 104 accesses content based on the user specific
information from the social network hub 102 - for example displaying a notification on the web
page that a contact on the user's contact list has invited them to join a chat session.
FIG. 7 illustrates a method 700 of accessing content from at least one hub according to one
embodiment of the present invention.
Step 701 includes displaying a selectable item, such as the search result 303, within an
interface, such as web page 300.       In an alternative example, the selectable item may be a
button associated with an item for sale, is displayed within an online retailer's web page listing
items for sale. A further example may be advertisement 403.
Step 702 includes receiving a selection of the search result 303 (or sale button, or
advertisement 403) from a user. The user may have been previously identified by a process as
illustrated by FIG. 6.
                                                 30

133888AUDIV
In step 703 the search result 303 determines whether the selection was a first type of selection
corresponding to the default means for activating items within the web page 300 - for example
a left click.
If so the standard function is performed, for example the hyperlink followed according to the
browser settings, in step 704. In the example of the online shopping environment, a left click
may cause the item to be added to a virtual shopping trolley.              In the example of the
advertisement 403, the advertisement 403 may be expanded - or a hyperlink followed to an
associated advertiser's web page.
If not, for example a right click is received, options associated with access to the search engine
hub 103 (such as menu 304) are presented to the user in step 705.            In the example of the
online shopping environment, a virtual wallet option and a buy now option may be displayed. In
the example of the advertisement 403, and options menu 404 may be presented.
In step 706, the user's selection of an option is received, and the hub or hubs responsible are
accessed to perform the option.        For example, if the open saved option 312 is selected the
search engine hub 103 will deliver the content to be displayed in the search result box 313 at
the web page 300. In the online shopping example a virtual wallet may be opened at the web
page, the balance updated from the central server device 105.           In an alternative example,
selecting the open saved option 414 will deliver the saved advertisements box 415 to the web
page 400.
Aspects of the present invention have been described by way of example only and it should be
appreciated that modifications and additions may be made thereto without departing from the
scope thereof as defined in the appended claims.
                                                   31

133888AUDIV
CLAIMS:
1.      A computer implemented method, comprising:
        displaying, on a user device, a web page hosted by a web server device of a content
provider, the web page comprising a self-contained block of script executable by a web browser
to display a visible social network icon;
        receiving, from a user input device of the user device, a signal indicating either a first
type of selection or a second type of selection of either the social network icon or an element of
the webpage other than the social network icon by a user of the user device;
        wherein the first type of selection comprises one of: a left-click of a mouse, a touch
gesture on a touch screen or a touch pad equivalent of a left-click of a mouse, and a voice
command equivalent of a left click of a mouse, without prior selection of a control option, and
receiving the first type of selection of the social network icon causes a link to an online resource
associated with the social network provider to be followed by the web browser, the online
resource enabling the user to login to a social network operated by at least one server device
provided by the social network provider, and
        wherein the second type of selection comprises one of: a right-click of a mouse, a touch
gesture on a touch screen or a touch pad equivalent of a right-click of a mouse, and a voice
command equivalent of a right-click of a mouse, without prior selection of a control option,
wherein receiving the second type of selection of the element of the webpage other than the
social network icon causes display of a context menu standard to the web browser, and
        wherein receiving the second type of selection of the social network icon causes:
        execution of the script associated with the social network icon by the web browser to
display a user interface unique to the social network icon within the web page, the user
interface displayed within the web page, wherein the user interface comprises a menu
displaying selectable control options, the control options including at least:
                a save web page control function, selection of which causes saving, by the at
        least one server device, details of the web page together with a user identifier to a
        storage hub remote from the user device and provided by the social network provider;
                a saved web page access function, selection of which causes:
                        accessing,    by   the   at   least one   server  device    in   bidirectional
                communication with the remote storage hub, user specific information including
                the user identifier;
                                                    32

133888AUDIV
                         accessing, by the at least one server device, of details of at least one web
                 page previously saved by the user to the storage hub with the user identifier, and
                        transmitting the details of the at least one previously saved web page to
                 the user device for display to the user within a secondary interface overlaying the
                 web page displayed by the web browser on the user device.
2.      The computer implemented method of claim 1, said displayed control options comprise
an option to send details of the web page to one or more contacts retrieved from the remote
storage hub.
3.      The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein said displayed control options
comprise an option to send details of the web page to the one or more contacts retrieved from
the remote storage hub, and wherein selection of said option results in sending of an invitation
to the one or more contacts to view the web page currently being viewed by the user.
4.      The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user interface comprises an
online contacts list populated with contacts of the user retrieved from the remote storage hub
who have been identified as currently having access to social network functions by the social
network provider.
5.      The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the content
comprises a reminder regarding a calendar event.
6.      The computer implemented method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the user
interface content comprises a messaging service provided by the social network provider.
7.      A system comprising:
        a web server device of a content provider; and
        a user device comprising at least one processor, and at least one non-transitory
machine readable storage medium storing instructions, which when executed by the at least
one processor cause the system to:
                 receive, for display on the user device, a web page hosted by the web server
        device of the content provider, the web page comprising a self-contained block of script
        executable by a web browser to display a visible social network icon;
                 receive, from a user input device of the user device, a signal indicating either a
        first type of selection or a second type of selection of the social network icon being
        selected by a user of the user device;
                                                   33

133888AUDIV
               wherein the first type of selection comprises one of: a left-click of a mouse, a
       touch gesture on a touch screen or a touch pad equivalent of a left-click of a mouse,
       and a voice command equivalent of a left click of a mouse, without prior selection of a
       control option, and receiving the first type of selection of the social network icon causes
       a link to an online resource associated with a social network provider to be followed by
       the web browser, the online resource enabling the user to login to a social network
       operated by at least one server device provided by the social network provider, and
               wherein the second type of selection comprises one of: a right-click of a mouse,
       a touch gesture on a touch screen or a touch pad equivalent of a right-click of a mouse,
       and a voice command equivalent of a right-click of a mouse, without prior selection of a
       control option, wherein receiving the second type of selection of the element of the
       webpage other than the social network icon causes display of a context menu standard
       to the web browser, and
               wherein receiving the second type of selection of the social network icon causes:
               execution of the script associated with the social network icon by the web
       browser to display a user interface unique to the social network icon within the webpage,
       the user interface displayed within the web page, wherein the user interface comprises a
       menu displaying selectable control options to be displayed within the web page, the
       control options including at least:
                         a save web page control function, selection of which causes saving, by
               the at least one server device, details of the web page together with a user
                identifier to a storage hub remote from the user device and provided by the
               social network provider;
                         a saved web page access function, selection of which causes:
                         accessing,   by   the   at   least one   server   device    in   bidirectional
               communication with the remote storage hub, user specific information including
               the user identifier;
                         accessing, by the at least one server device, of details of at least one web
                page previously saved by the user to the storage hub with the user identifier, and
                        transmitting the details of the at least one previously saved web page to
               the user device for display to the user within a secondary interface overlaying the
               web page displayed by the web browser on the user device.
                                                    34

                                 FIGURE 1
<removed-date>
               100
                           118                                114
                                                  106
<removed-apn>
                                                  110
                                                  102
                                                                    115
                                                        107
                                   101                  111
              119
                                                        103
                                                                    116
                                                        108
                                                        112
                                                        104
                                            117
                     120           109
                                   113
                                    105
                                   1/7

                                        FIGURE 2a
<removed-date>
                          201
              200                             204
                                                                  205
<removed-apn>
                                                206
                                                      208
                                                      209
                                                                        210
                                                      211
                                  207
                                                      219
                           203                        223
                                                      224
                                                                              220
                                                                        221
                                                                  222
                                        FIGURE 2b
                    212
                                  205
                                                       214
                                        212
                                                            215
                            211                         216
                                                                  217           218
                            200                                           213
                                          2/7

                           FIGURE 2c
<removed-date>
                            226       226      226
                                1/X
              204
<removed-apn>
                                  228
                                                 227
                    229
                           FIGURE 3a
              301
                          302                                      300
                                                304
                    303
                                   305
                                                             307
                    303             306
                                         312           308
                                         311
                                        309                        307
                    304
                                3/7

                                  FIGURE 3b
<removed-date>
                          313
<removed-apn>
              314
              315
              316
                            317               318    319          320
                                  FIGURE 4a
                    401
                                                                  400
                                               403
                                                                 404
                                               403
                                                           405
                                                           406
                                                           407
                    402
                                   403                     413
                                                           414
                                    4/7

<removed-date>
                                      FIGURE 4b
                                      404
<removed-apn>
                                            410         403         411
                                407
                                                                    412
                                      409
                                      FIGURE 4c
                          415
              416
              417
              418
                                                        417
                    419    420          421       422         423
                                            5/7

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                        FIGURE 5
                          501
              500
                                  502
                           503                     511
                    504
                                 505               512
                    506
                                 507
                                                         510
                    508
                                 509
                    514
                                          513
                                          6/7

<removed-date>
                                           FIGURE 6
                                              START                       600
                                   USER REQUEST WEB PAGE
                     601
                           HOST SERVER FORMAT PAGE FOR BROWSER
<removed-apn>
                     602
                                  BROWSER PROCESS WEB PAGE
                     603
                           AUTHENTICATION ELEMENT COMMUNICATE
                                    IDENTIFIER TO HUB
                     604
                           HUB RETURN USER SPECIFIC INFORMATION
                                ASSOCIATED WITH IDENTIFIER
                     605
                           ACCESS CONTENT BASED ON USER SPECIFIC
                                       INFORMATION
                     606
                                                 END
                                           FIGURE 7
                                          START                           700
                              DISPLAY SELECTABLE ITEM
               701
                            SELECTION OF ITEM DETECTED
               702
                                                                        705
                                         DEFAULT              DISPLAY OPTIONS
                                        SELECTION?
              PERFORM             703
              STANDARD                                           PERFORM
                            704                               SELECTED OPTION
                                                        706
                                           END
                                              7/7

