                                             ABSTRACT
          A gaming machine has a display and a game controller arranged to control
  images of symbols displayed on the display. The game controller is arranged to play a
  game wherein, if a predetermined special symbol outcome, comprising a plurality of
5 special symbols, occurs in a base game, a player is afforded an opportunity of selecting
  one of those special symbols. If, as a result of that selection, a predetermined selection
  outcome occurs, a bonus feature is awarded.
                                                                    10347273_1 (GHMaIters) P88227.AU.4 6/0618

                                                1
                          A Gaming Machine With Variable Triger
   Field of the Invention
            This invention relates to a gaming machine. More particularly, the invention
 5 relates to a gaming machine and to an improvement to a game played on such a gaming
   machine.
   Background to the Invention
            Players who regularly play gaming machines quickly tire of particular games
10 and therefore it is necessary for manufacturers of these machines to develop innovative
   game features which add interest to the games. In so doing, it is hoped to keep players
   amused and therefore willing to continue playing the game as well as to attract new
   players.
           Also, with the growth that has occurred in the gaming machine market, there is
15 intense competition between manufacturers to supply various existing and new venues.
   When selecting a supplier of gaming machines, the operator of a venue will often pay
   close attention to the popularity of various games with their patrons.                    Therefore,
   gaming machine manufacturers are keen to devise games and/or game features which
   are popular with the players as a mechanism for improving sales, retaining customers
20 and attracting new customers.
   Summary of the Invention
           According to a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a gaming machine
   comprising a display and a game controller configured to control images of symbols
25 displayed on the display, the game controller being configured to play a game wherein
   the images of the symbols are organised into a plurality of columns, and wherein if a
   predetermined special symbol outcome, comprising a predefined number of special
   symbols scattered throughout the columns, occurs in a base game, a player is afforded
   an opportunity of selecting one of those special symbols and if, as a result of that
30 selection, a predetermined selection outcome occurs, a bonus feature is awarded,
            wherein, if the predetermined selection outcome occurs, the selected special
   symbol animates to change into a trigger symbol including a device and a background
   scene, wherein the probability of the predetermined section outcome occurring is
   directly proportional to the number of special symbols which occurred in the base game
35 and wherein remaining unselected special symbols animate to change into a background
   scene,
                                                                     10347273_1 (GHMatters) P88227.AU.4 6/0618

                                                 2
           whereby the device of the trigger symbol moves from a starting position across
   the display and when the device reaches a side of the display, a screen display changes
   to an initial screen display of the bonus feature.
           The predetermined selection outcome may be the occurrence of a trigger
 5 symbol. The probability of the predetermined selection outcome occurring may be
   directly related to the number of special symbols occurring.   In other words, the more
   special symbols that occur, the higher the probability of the trigger symbol outcome
   occurring.
           At least three special symbols may need to occur for the player to be afforded
10 the opportunity of selecting one.     If the minimum number of special symbols occurs,
   the probability may be less than 50% that the animation into the trigger symbol
   outcome will occur. If the maximum number of special symbols occur there may be a
   100% probability that the animation into the trigger symbol outcome will occur. For
   any intermediate number of special symbols occurring, the probability that the
15 animation into the trigger symbol outcome will occur may lie between 50% and 100%.
   For example, in the case of a five reel spinning reel base game, when three scatter
   symbols occur, there may be a 1:3 probability of that outcome occurring. Where four
   scatter symbols occur, there may be a 1:2 probability of that outcome occurring. For
   five scatter symbols occurring, there may be a 100% probability of the outcome
20 occurring.
           The initial screen display of the bonus feature may give the player a choice of
   bonus features to be played. At least certain of the bonus features may be second
   screen features.
           The base game may, for example, be a spinning reel game. The reel strips of the
25 base game may carry a set of standard symbols. Further, each reel strip may carry at
   least one special symbol.     The special symbol may be a scatter symbol so that, when
   the predetermined, minimum number of scatter symbols are spun up, whether on a
   bought payline or not, the player is afforded the opportunity of selecting one of the
   scatter symbols.
30         The gaming machine may include a selecting means for enabling the player to
   select one of the special symbols.          Conveniently, the selecting means may be
   implemented by a touch sensitive screen on the display means. It will, however, be
   appreciated that the selecting means could be in the form of one or more selector
   switches on the gaming machine.         The switches may be provided in addition to, or
35 instead, of the touch sensitive screen.
           According to a second aspect of the invention, there is provided a method of
   playing a game on a game playing apparatus, the game playing apparatus comprising a
                                                                   10347273_1 (GHMatters) P88227.AU.4 6/0618

                                                   3
    display and a game controller configured to control images displayed on the display
    such that the images of the symbols are organised into a plurality of columns, the
    method comprising the steps of, if a predetermined special outcome comprising a
    predefined number of special symbols scattered throughout the columns, occurs in a
  5 base game, affording a player an opportunity of selecting one of those special symbols
    and if, as a result of that selection, a predetermined selection outcome occurs, awarding
    a bonus feature,
            wherein, if the predetermined selection outcome occurs, the selected special
    symbol animates to change into a trigger symbol including a device and a background
10  scene, wherein the probability of the predetermined section outcome occurring is
    directly proportional to the number of special symbols which occurred in the base game
    and wherein remaining unselected special symbols animate to change into a background
    scene,
            whereby the device of the trigger symbol moves from a starting position across
15  the display and when the device reaches a side of the display, a screen display changes
    to an initial screen display of the bonus feature.
            A game playing apparatus includes one which does not require the wagering of a
    stake in order to play the game and further includes apparatus which is connectable to a
    network.
20
    Brief Description of the Drawings
            The invention is now described by way of example with reference to the
    accompanying diagrammatic drawings in which:
            Figure 1 shows a perspective view of a gaming machine, in accordance with an
25  embodiment of the invention;
            Figure 2 shows a block diagram of a control circuit of the gaming machine;
            Figure 3 shows a screen display of a base game of a game played on the gaining
    machine of Figure 1;
            Figures 4a and 4b show screen displays of an animation sequence after a player
30  has selected a special symbol occurring in the base game;
            Figure 5 shows a screen display of an initial screen of a bonus feature of the
    game;
            Figure 6 shows a flow chart of one embodiment of the game played on the
    gaming machine of Figure 1; and
35          Figure 7 shows a flow chart of another embodiment of the game played on the
    gaming machine of Figure 1.
                                                                      10347273_1 (GHMaitter) P88227.AU.4 6/06118

                                                 4
   Detailed Description of the Drawings
            In Figure 1, reference numeral 10 generally designates a gaming machine,
   including a game, in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The machine 10
   includes a console 12 having a video display unit 14 on which a game 16 is played, in
 5 use. The game 16 is a spinning reel game which simulates the rotation of a number of
   spinning reels 18. A midtrim 20 of the machine 10 houses a keypad 22 of buttons for
   enabling a player to play the game 16. The midtrim 20 also houses a credit input
   mechanism 24 including a coin input chute 24.1 and a bill collector 24.2.
            The machine 10 includes a top box 26 on which artwork 28 is carried. The
10 artwork 28 includes paytables, details of bonus awards, etc.
            A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the console 12 for cash payouts from the
   machine 10.
            Referring now to Figure 2 of the drawings, a control means or control circuit 32
   is illustrated. A program which implements the game and user interface is run on a
15 processor 34 of the control circuit 32. The processor 34 forms part of a controller 36
   that drives the screen of the video display unit 14 and that receives input signals from
   sensors 38. The sensors 38 include sensors associated with the keypad 22 and touch
   sensors mounted in the screen of the video display unit 14. The controller 36 also
   receives input pulses from the mechanism 24 to determine whether or not a player has
20 provided sufficient credit to commence playing. The mechanism 24 may, instead of the
   coin input chute 24.1 or the bill collector 24.2, or in addition thereto, be a credit card
   reader (not shown) or any other type of validation device.
            Finally, the controller 36 drives a payout mechanism 40 which, for example,
   may be a coin hopper for feeding coins to the coin tray 30 to make a pay out to a player
25 when the player wishes to redeem his or her credit.
            In Figure 3 of the drawings, reference numeral 60 designates a screen display of
   a base game 62 of the game 16 played on the gaming machine 10. The base game 62 is
   a spinning reel game. The spinning reel game 62 has a plurality of spinning reels 18.
   Each reel 18 has at least one special symbol in the form of a scatter symbol 64. When
30 three or more scatter symbols appear, the player has a chance to win a bonus feature.
            In the embodiment shown, the scatter symbol is in the form of a "Map" symbol.
   As indicated, three of the Map symbols 64 are spun up in the base game 62 as
   illustrated in Figure 3 of the drawings.
            A prize is awarded for the occurrence of the three Map symbols 64. In this case,
35 the prize is twice the total credits bet. As indicated on a bet meter 66, 20 credits were
   initially bet by a player. As a result, a prize of 40 credits is credited to a win meter 68
   on the screen display 60.
                                                                      10347273 1 (GHMatters) P88227.AU.4 6/06118

                                                 5
           When three or more Map symbols 64 appear, a message (not shown) is
   displayed to the player advising the player to select one of the Map symbols 64. The
   Map symbol 64 is selected by the player by touching the symbol 64. Due to a touch
   sensitive screen on the video display unit 14 of the gaming machine 10, the controller
 5 36 determines which of the Map symbols 64 has been selected.
           The selected Map symbol 64 animates and, if a correct choice of Map symbol 64
   has been made, as determined by the controller 36, the selected Map symbol 64
   animates into a trigger symbol 70. It is to be noted that the trigger symbol 70 has a
   device in the form of a vehicle 72 superimposed on a background image 74.
10         The probability of the trigger symbol 70 being revealed when one of the Map
   symbols 64 is selected is directly proportional to the number of Map symbols 64 which
   occurred in the base game 62. More particularly, if three Map symbols 64 are spun up
   in the base game 62, there is a 1:3 probability of the trigger symbol 70 being revealed
   by the animation. If four Map symbols are spun up in the base game 62, there is a 1:2
15 chance of the trigger symbol 70 being revealed. If five Map symbols 64 appear, there is
   a 100% probability of the trigger symbol 70 being revealed.
           A random determination based on the probability of the feature being triggered
   may be made by the controller 36 immediately after the player selects the Map symbol
   64 as shown in the flow chart of Figure 6 of the drawings. Then, the only animation that
20 will occur will be of the symbol 64 chosen by the player to reveal whether or not the
   bonus feature has been awarded. Instead, and preferably, the trigger symbols 70 are
   distributed among the Map symbols 64 of the trigger combination prior to the player
   selecting one of the Map symbols 64 so that an animation of all the Map symbols 64
   occurs, as shown in the flow chart of Figure 7 of the drawings, and as described in
25 greater detail below.
           In the latter case, whenever one of the Map symbols 64 is selected, all the Map
   symbols 64 animate. In the case of the non-selected, remaining Map symbols 64, they
   animate into symbols 76 having only the background image 74 without the vehicle
   device 72. Should the player have chosen the incorrect Map symbol 64, then that Map
30 symbol 64 would animate into the symbol 76 and the game 16 would be over.
           If the player has selected the correct Map symbol 64, it animates into the trigger
   symbol 70 having the background image 74 on which the vehicle device 72 is
   superimposed.
           The vehicle device 72 then animates to "drive" across the screen display 60
35 towards a right hand side of the screen display 60. When the vehicle device 72 reaches
   the right hand side of the screen display 60, the screen display 60 changes into an initial
   screen display 78 of a second screen feature 80. In the illustrated embodiment, the
                                                                     10347273 1 (GHMatters) P88227.AU.4 6/0618

                                                  6
   screen display 78 is a representation of a map 82 of Australia. Various "signposts"
   symbols 84 are displayed about the map 82, each symbol 84 being associated with a
   bonus feature. These symbols 84 are arranged below a touch sensitive part of the screen
   of the video display unit 14 of the machine 10. The player selects one of the bonus
 5 features of the second screen feature by selecting one of the symbols 84. The player
   selects the symbol 84 by touching it. Once the appropriate symbol 84 has been touched
   by the player, the initial screen display 78 is replaced by a screen display (not shown) of
   the selected bonus feature of the second screen feature 80.
            It is an advantage of the invention that a means is provided whereby the
10 suspense in triggering a bonus feature is increased and the manner in which the bonus
   feature is awarded is entertaining. It is believed that this will heighten the enjoyment of
   the game by the player encouraging more frequent playing of the game.
            It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that numerous variations
   and/or modifications may be made to the invention as shown in the specific
15 embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly
   described. The present embodiments are, therefore, to be considered in all respects as
   illustrative and not restrictive.
                                                                       10347273 1 (GHlMaters) P88227.AU.4 6/0618

                                                 7
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.      A gaming machine comprising a display and a game controller configured to
   control images of symbols displayed on the display, the game controller being
 5 configured to play a game wherein the images of the symbols are organised into a
   plurality of columns, and wherein if a predetermined special symbol outcome,
   comprising a predefined number of special symbols scattered throughout the columns,
   occurs in a base game, a player is afforded an opportunity of selecting one of those
   special symbols and if, as a result of that selection, a predetermined selection outcome
10 occurs, a bonus feature is awarded,
           wherein, if the predetermined selection outcome occurs, the selected special
   symbol animates to change into a trigger symbol including a device and a background
   scene, wherein the probability of the predetermined section outcome occurring is
   directly proportional to the number of special symbols which occurred in the base game
15 and wherein remaining unselected special symbols animate to change into a background
   scene,
           whereby the device of the trigger symbol moves from a starting position across
   the display and when the device reaches a side of the display, a screen display changes
   to an initial screen display of the bonus feature.
20
   2.      The gaming machine of claim 1 in which the predetermined special symbol
   outcome is the occurrence of a predetermined, minimum number of the special symbols
   in the base game.
25 3.      The gaming machine of claim I or claim 2 in which the predetermined selection
   outcome is the occurrence of a trigger symbol.
   4.      The gaming machine of claim 3 in which the initial screen display of the bonus
   feature gives the player a choice of bonus features to be played.
30
   5.      The gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims in which the special
   symbol is a scatter symbol.
   6.      The gaming machine of any one of the preceding claims which includes a
35 selecting means for enabling the player to select one of the special symbols.
                                                                     10347273_1 (GHlMaters) P88227.AU.4 6/0618

                                                  8
    7.      A method of playing a game on a game playing apparatus, the game playing
    apparatus comprising a display and a game controller configured to control images
    displayed on the display such that the images of the symbols are organised into a
    plurality of columns, the method comprising the steps of, if a predetermined special
  5 outcome comprising a predefined number of special symbols scattered throughout the
    columns, occurs in a base game, affording a player an opportunity of selecting one of
    those special symbols and if, as a result of that selection, a predetermined selection
    outcome occurs, awarding a bonus feature,
            wherein, if the predetermined selection outcome occurs, the selected special
10  symbol animates to change into a trigger symbol including a device and a background
    scene, wherein the probability of the predetermined section outcome occurring is
    directly proportional to the number of special symbols which occurred in the base game
    and wherein remaining unselected special symbols animate to change into a background
    scene,
15          whereby the device of the trigger symbol moves from a starting position across
    the display and when the device reaches a side of the display, a screen display changes
    to an initial screen display of the bonus feature.
    8.      The method of claim 7 in which the predetermined special symbol outcome is
20  the occurrence of a predetermined, minimum number of the special symbols in the base
    game.
    9.      The method of claim 7 or claim 8 in which the predetermined selection outcome
    is the occurrence of a trigger symbol.
25
    10.     The method of claim 9 in which the initial screen display of the bonus feature
    gives the player a choice of bonus features to be played.
     11.    The method of any one of claims 7 to 10 in which the special symbol is a scatter
30  symbol.
                                                                   10347273_1 (GHMaIters) P88227.AU.4 6/0618

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
