1002001788
                                         ABSTRACT
                Circuits, methods, and apparatus that may provide a wired communication
path that is simple to implement and does not greatly increase costs and complexity. One
example may provide an electronic device having wired data path, where the wired data path
is implemented using a power connection. Data from a wireless signal path may be routed
and combined with a power supply voltage. This combined signal may then be provided to,
or received from, a second electronic device over the power connection. The combined
signal may be provided at a power connection that may include a power and ground path,
paths for multiple power supplies, or paths for multiple power supplies and ground.

   1002001788
        ALTERNATIVE ROUTING OF WIRELESS DATA ONTO POWER
                                               SUPPLY
                     CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [0001]     This application claims priority to United States application number 14/641,317,
 5 filed March 7, 2015, and United States provisional patent application number 62/057,872,
   filed September 30, 2014, which are incorporated by reference.
   [0001A] Also incorporated herein by reference, in its entirety, is PCT/US2015/046661
   (published as WO 2016/053508), filed on 25 August 2015.
10                                          BACKGROUND
   [0002]     Electronic devices, such as portable media players, storage devices, tablets,
   netbooks, laptops, desktops, all-in-one computers, wearable computing devices, cell, media,
   and smart phones, televisions, monitors, and other display devices, navigation systems, and
   other devices have become ubiquitous in recent years. Many of these devices now
15 communicate wirelessly. In fact, many users may prefer to have devices communicate
   wirelessly to avoid having to make connections between devices using cables and other
   wires.
   [0003]     Also, it may be desirable to reduce the number of connector receptacles on an
   electronic device. These connector receptacles consume area along an outside of a device,
20 consume space in the device, add costs, detract from the device's appearance, and form
   leakage paths for water and other corrosive fluids.
   [0004]     Accordingly, many devices currently rely heavily, if not exclusively, on wireless
   connections to other devices. Wireless communications may include the transfer of files and
   data that may be used by programs and applications on the device. Other wireless
25 communications may involve relatively large files. These files may be firmware files, system
   updates, and other such files. These files may often be transferred to a device during
   manufacturing and testing of the device. For example, these files may be used to initially
   program the device. Since these files are large, their transfer to a device may consume a
   great deal of time, thereby slowing the manufacturing process and increasing costs.
30 [0005]     Also, wireless communications may not be as robust as wired communication.
   Errors in wireless data transmission may be more likely than wired data transmissions. This
   may be due to environmental and interference factors, which may require re-transmission of
   faulty data packets or re-programming, thereby further increasing manufacturing time and
                                                    1

   1002001788
   costs or user time and effort. For these reasons, it may be desirable to have an alternative
   wired signal path that may be used by either or both manufacturers and users that is simple
   and low cost to implement.
   [0006]     Thus, what is needed are circuits, methods, and apparatus that may provide a wired
 5 communication path that is simple to implement and does not greatly increase costs and
   complexity of a device's hardware and software.
                                              SUMMARY
   [0007]     Accordingly, embodiments of the present invention may provide circuits, methods,
10 and apparatus that may provide a wired communication path that is simple to implement and
   does not greatly increase costs and complexity. Many devices that communicate wirelessly
   may include a power connection for charging. An illustrative embodiment of the present
   invention may provide an electronic device having wired data path, where the wired data path
   is implemented using this power connection in order to minimize the connector pin-count and
15 reduce the size, cost, and complexity of a connector solution. In this and other embodiments
   of the present invention, the connector pin-count may be as low as 2 pins, one for a data
   over-power pin and one for a ground pin. Specifically, data from a wireless signal path may
   be routed and combined with a power supply voltage. This combined signal may then be
   provided to, or received from, a second electronic device over the power connection. The
20 combined signal may be received or provided at a power connection that may include pins,
   contacts, or other paths for power and ground, for multiple power supplies, or for multiple
   power supplies and ground. In other examples, the power connection may be an inductive or
   capacitive power connection. For example, a combined signal may be received or provided
   at a power pin, contact, or other path in a power connector, where the power connector may
25 also include a ground pin, contact, or other path. In order to minimize system impact, cost,
   and size, the device's internal data path portion of this combined signal may heavily leverage
   existing wireless data circuits. In this way a wireless signal path may be at least partially
   reused in a wired signal path. This may simplify the design of the wired signal path and help
   control or reduce costs.
30 [0008]     In order to simultaneously combine the data and power signals, a Frequency
   Division-Multiplexed (FDM) scheme may be used which modulates the data signal at a low
   intermediate frequency (IF), combined with a power signal at DC. In addition, the data signal
   may heavily leverage existing wireless data circuits, which may already used for normal
   wireless operation. These existing wireless circuits may require only minimal modifications
                                                   2

   1002001788
   to provide a baseband or low-IF signal to a new, but simple, modulator/demodulator for
   combining or extracting the data signal and the power signal.
   [0009]     An illustrative embodiment of the present invention may provide an electronic
   device that may receive a combined data and power signal at a power connection. The power
 5 signal may be extracted by filtering and used to power circuits in the electronic device. A
   first data signal may be extracted by filtering and provided to circuitry in a radio signal (RF)
   signal path. The RF signal path may extract data from the data signal and provide it to
   remaining circuitry in the electronic device. The first data signal may be an RF signal that is
   received and demodulated by an RF demodulator, an RF and intermediate frequency (IF)
10 demodulator combination, or other demodulation circuit. The demodulated signal may be
   further processed by a baseband circuit before being provided to other circuits in the
   electronic device.
   [0010]     In this and other embodiments of the present invention, a second data signal may be
   extracted by filtering and provided to a second data path. This second data path may include
15 demodulator circuitry that may demodulate the second data signal before providing data to
   other circuits in the electronic device.
   [0011]     In this example, the power signal and one or more data signals may be received by
   the electronic device. In this and other embodiments of the present invention, the power
   supply may be provided by the electronic device while the one or more data signals are
20 received by the electronic device. In this and other embodiments of the present invention, the
   power supply may be received by the electronic device while the one or more data signals are
   provided by the electronic device.
   [0012]     In still other embodiments of the present invention, the power supply and the one or
   more data signals may be provided by the electronic device. For example, an RF signal path
25 may receive a first data signal. The first data signal may be transformed to a baseband signal,
   an IF modulated signal, an RF modulated signal, or other signal. This transformed first data
   signal may be combined with a power signal and provided at a power connection.
   [0013]     In this and other embodiments of the present invention, a second data signal may be
   provided to a second data path. This second data path may include modulation circuitry that
30 may modulate the second data signal before providing the modulated second data signal to be
   combined with the transformed first data signal and power signal.
   [0014]     In the above examples, data may be transferred in a unidirectional or bidirectional
   half-duplex manner. That is, two or more data signals having different carrier frequencies
   may be simultaneously conveyed over a single power path in a power connector. In these
                                                    3

   1002001788
   and other embodiments of the present invention, one, two, or more data signals may be
   transferred in a bidirectional full-duplex manner. In this and other embodiments, the received
   and transmitted data for each data stream may be conveyed at different frequencies.
   [0015]     In various embodiments of the present invention, it may be desirable to combine an
 5 IF modulated signal with a power supply, or to extract an IF modulated signal from a power
   supply. In these cases, it may be that the RF signal path either does not use an IF modulator
   or the IF modulator may not be accessible. In these cases, a separate IF modulator may be
   provided. The second IF modulator may demodulate a received IF signal and provide it to a
   baseband circuit. The second IF modulator may also modulate a baseband signal from a
10 baseband circuit and provide it to be combined with a power signal, one or more other data
   signals, or both.
   [0016]     Various embodiments of the present invention may include an RF signal path. This
   RF signal path may be included on an electronic device for wireless communications such as
   Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, cellular, near-field, or other wireless communications. These and other
15 embodiments of the present invention may include a second signal path that may include a
   modem, such as a frequency-shift keying modulator/demodulator, phase-shift keying
   modulator/demodulator, or other type of modem.
   [0017]     Embodiments of the present invention may provide communications circuits for
   various types of devices, such as portable computing devices, tablet computers, desktop
20 computers, laptops, all-in-one computers, wearable computing devices, cell phones, smart
   phones, media phones, storage devices, portable media players, navigation systems, monitors,
   power supplies, adapters, remote control devices, chargers, and other devices. These
   communications circuits may provide pathways for signals that are compliant with one or
   more various standards such as Universal Serial Bus (USB), High-Definition Multimedia
25 Interface® (HDMI), Digital Visual Interface (DVI), Ethernet, DisplayPort, Thunderbolt TM,
   LightningTM, Joint Test Action Group (JTAG), test-access-port (TAP), Directed Automated
   Random Testing (DART), universal asynchronous receiver/transmitters (UARTs), clock
   signals, power signals, and other types of standard, non-standard, and proprietary interfaces
   and combinations thereof that have been developed, are being developed, or will be
30 developed in the future. In various embodiments of the present invention, the paths provided
   by these communication circuits may be used to convey power, ground, signals, test points,
   and other voltage, current, data, or other information.
   [0018]     Various embodiments of the present invention may incorporate one or more of these
   and the other features described herein. A better understanding of the nature and advantages
                                                    4

   1002001788
   of the present invention may be gained by reference to the following detailed description and
   the accompanying drawings.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5 [0019]     Figure 1 illustrates communication circuitry according to an embodiment of the
   present invention;
   [0020]     Figure 2 illustrates a frequency spectrum of a combined signal at a power
   connection according to an embodiment of the present invention;
   [0021]     Figure 3 illustrates a frequency spectrum of a combined signal at a power
10 connection according to an embodiment of the present invention;
   [0022]     Figure 4 illustrates communication circuitry according to an embodiment of the
   present invention;
   [0023]     Figure 5 illustrates communication circuitry according to an embodiment of the
   present invention;
15 [0024]     Figure 6 illustrates communication circuitry according to an embodiment of the
   present invention; and
   [0025]     Figure 7 illustrates communication circuitry according to an embodiment of the
   present invention.
20                    DESCRIPTION OF ILLUSTRATIVE EMBODIMENTS
   [0026]     Figure 1 illustrates communication circuitry according to an embodiment of the
   present invention. This figure, as with the other included figures, is shown for illustrative
   purposes and does not limit either the possible embodiments of the present invention or the
   claims.
25 [0027]     This figure includes a first signal path 180. First signal path 180 may be an
   integrated circuit, portion of an integrated circuit, or it may be formed of one or more
   integrated or other circuits. Signal path 180 may be an RF signal path for wireless
   communications. This RF signal path 180 may be designed for Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, cellular,
   near field, or other wireless communications. RF signal path 180 may include baseband
30 circuit 110 and transceiver 120. Transceiver 120 may include an IF modulator/demodulator
    130 and RF modulator/demodulator 140. In other embodiments of the present invention,
   transceiver 120 may include only an RF modulator/demodulator 140, or it may include one or
   more of these and other circuits. Each modulator/demodulator may include a modulator in
   the transmit path and a demodulator in the receive path.
                                                     5

   1002001788
   [0028]     During RF communications, DATA A may be received by baseband circuit 110.
   The baseband data from baseband circuit 110 may be modulated to an intermediate frequency
   by IF modulator/demodulator 130. This intermediate frequency signal may be modulated by
   RF modulator/demodulator 140 and provided as an RF signal to antenna 182. Also, RF data
 5 may be received at antenna 182, demodulated by RF modulator/demodulator 140 and
   provided to IF modulator/demodulator 130. The demodulated data may be provided by IF
   modulator/demodulator 130 to baseband circuit 110, which may convert it into the signal
   DATA A. The signal DATA A may be provided to other circuitry in the electronic device.
   [0029]     This figure may also include a second data path 190. Second signal path 190 may
10 be an integrated circuit, portion of an integrated circuit, or it may be formed of one or more
   integrated or other circuits. This second data path may include a combiner-splitter 170.
   Combiner-splitter 170 may combine a signal received from RF signal path 180 with a power
   supply signal received either from the electronic device or from a second electronic device
   and provide the combined signal on power connection DOP, where DOP is an acronym for
15 data-over-power. In these and other embodiments of the present invention, combiner-splitter
    170 may use filtering to extract a data signal from a received signal at the power connection
   DOP. Combiner-splitter 170 may provide the extracted signal to RF signal path 180.
   Combiner-splitter 170 may also extract a power supply VBUS from the received signal or
   receive a power supply VBUS and combine it with a received data signal. In this way
20 wireless signal path 180 may be at least partially reused in a wired signal path. This may
   simplify the design of the wired signal path and help control or reduce costs.
   [0030]     The second data path 190 may receive or provide a second data signal. In this
   example, a second data signal, DATA B, may be provided to modem 160. Modem 160 may
   modulate the DATA B signal and provide it to combiner-splitter 170. Combiner-splitter 170
25 may combine this data with data received from RF signal path 180. The combiner-splitter
    170 may provide the combined data signals and power over the power connection DOP.
   Alternatively, combined modulated data and power signals may be received at connection
   DOP by combiner-splitter 170, filtered, and provided to modem 160. Modem 160 may then
   demodulate the received modulated data signal and provide the demodulated data signal as
30 DATA B to other circuitry in the electronic device. Combiner-splitter 170 may receive or
   provide a power supply over line VBUS.
   [0031]     In an illustrative embodiment of the present invention, a combined signal and power
   supply may be received by an electronic device at the power connector DOP. Combiner
   splitter 170 may use filtering to extract a first data signal and provide it to RF signal path 180.
                                                     6

   1002001788
   RF signal path 180 may demodulate this signal and provide an output DATA A to other
   circuitry on electronic device. In this example, the first modulated signal may be an RF
   modulated signal that is demodulated by RF modulator/demodulator 140 and IF
   modulator/demodulator 130 before being provided to baseband circuitry 110. A second data
 5 signal may be received and filtered by combiner-splitter 170 and provided to modem 160.
   Modem 160 may demodulate the second signal and provide it as DATA B to other circuitry
   in the electronic device. A power supply may also be received, filtered, and provided as a
   power supply signal VBUS. In this and other embodiments of the present invention, the
   power supply VBUS may be received by combiner-splitter 170 and combined with the data
10 signals.
   [0032]     In another illustrative embodiment of the present invention, a first data signal,
   DATA A, may be provided to RF signal path 180. This signal may be received and
   processed by baseband circuit 110 and provided to IF modulator/demodulator 130. The
   output of IF modulator/demodulator 130 may be provided to RF modulator/demodulator 140.
15 RF modulator/demodulator 140 may provide the RF signal to combiner-splitter 170.
   [0033]     A second data signal, DATA B, may be received by modem 160. Modem 160 may
   modulate the data and provide modulated data to combiner-splitter 170. Combiner-splitter
   170 may combine the modulated data signals and provide them and a power supply as a
   combined signal at the power supply connection DOP. In other embodiments of the present
20 invention, these data signals may be provided by combiner-splitter 170 to the power
   connection DOP, while the power supply VBUS may be received at the power connection
   DOP.
   [0034]     The power connection DOP may include a path for a power supply and a path for
   ground. In other embodiments of the present invention, the power connection DOP may
25 include a power and ground path, paths for multiple power supplies, or paths for multiple
   power supplies and ground. That is, the combined signal may be received or provided at a
   power connection that may include pins, contacts, or other paths for power and ground, for
   multiple power supplies, or for multiple power supplies and ground. In other examples, the
   power connection may be an inductive or capacitive power connection. For example, a
30 combined signal may be received or provided at a power pin, contact, or other path in a
   power connector, where the power connector may also include a ground pin, contact, or other
   path
                                                  7

   1002001788
   [0035]     Again, embodiments of the present invention may combine multiple data signals on
   one power supply connection pin, contact, or other path. An example of how this may be
   done is shown in the following figure.
   [0036]     Figure 2 illustrates a frequency spectrum of a combined signal at a power
 5 connection according to an embodiment of the present invention. This combined signal may
   include a modulated DATA A signal at a first frequency or frequency range. The combined
   signal may include a modulated DATA B signal at a second frequency or frequency range. A
   power supply at DC or other frequency may also be included. For example, where inductive
   or capacitive charging is used, the power signal may be at a higher frequency of frequency
10 range than DC.
   [0037]     In the above examples, each data path may be unidirectional, though each data path
   may not need to flow in the same direction. That is, DATA A may be input data while
   DATA B is output data, or DATA A may be output data while DATA B is input data. In
   these and embodiments of the present invention, data may be bidirectional half-duplex. That
15 is, data in each path may flow in either direction, but data may flow only in one direction at a
   time in each path. Other embodiments of the present invention may further provide for
   communications that may be bidirectional full-duplex. That is, communications may flow in
   both directions at the same time in either or both paths. An example of how this may be done
   is shown in the following figure.
20 [0038]     Figure 3 illustrates a frequency spectrum of a combined signal at a power
   connection according to an embodiment of the present invention. This combined signal may
   include DATA A and DATA B at different frequencies, as before. Also, in this figure,
   received and transmitted data may be conveyed at different frequencies as well. This
   implementation may require the inclusion of additional modulation and demodulation
25 circuitry. While both DATA A and DATA B signal paths are shown as being bidirectional
   full-duplex, in these and other embodiments of the present invention, neither, either, or both
   signal paths may be bidirectional full-duplex.
   [0039]     In the above example, the signal provided by the RF signal path is the RF
   modulated signal. In other embodiments of the present invention, an IF modulated signal
30 may be provided. An example is shown in the following figure.
   [0040]     Figure 4 illustrates communication circuitry according to an embodiment of the
   present invention. In this figure, inputs and outputs of IF modulator/demodulator 130 may be
   connected to combiner-splitter 170. Accordingly, a combined data and power signal may be
   received at power connection DOP. An IF modulated data signal may be extracted by
                                                     8

   1002001788
   filtering and provided to IF modulator/demodulator 130 in RF signal path 180. IF
   modulator/demodulator 130 may provide demodulated data to baseband circuit 110, which
   may provide a signal DATA A to other circuitry in the electronic device. In this example, RF
   modulator/demodulator 140 may be powered down to save power and to prevent interference
 5 during data transmission. A second data signal may be filtered and extracted and provided to
   modem 160. Modem 160 may demodulate and provide a DATA B signal to other circuitry
   on the electronic device. A power supply signal VBUS may be extracted from the combined
   signal at the power connector DOP. In this and other embodiments of the present invention,
   the power supply signal VBUS may be received by combiner-splitter 170 and provided at the
10 power connection DOP to a second electronic device.
   [0041]     In another example, data signal DATA A may be received by baseband circuit 110
   and provided to IF modulator/demodulator 130. IF modulator/demodulator 130 may provide
   a modulated signal to combiner-splitter 170. A second data signal DATA B may be received
   by modem 160. Modem 160 may modulate this signal and provide it to combiner-splitter
15  170. Combiner-splitter 170 may combine these data signals and provide them at the power
   connection DOP. As before, power supply VBUS may be received by combiner-splitter 170
   and provided to power connection DOP, or it may be received at power connection DOP and
   provided to the electronic device by combiner-splitter 170.
   [0042]     In these and other embodiments of the present invention, both data signals may be
20 received by combiner-splitter 170 from the power connection DOP or both signals may be
   provided by combiner-splitter 170 to the power connection DOP. In these and other
   embodiments of the present invention, the signal DATA A may be received by combiner
   splitter 170 from the power connection DOP while the DATA B signal may be provided to
   the power connection DOP by combiner-splitter 170, or the DATA A signal may be provided
25 by the combiner-splitter 170 to the power connection DOP while the DATA B signal may be
   received from the power connection DOP by combiner-splitter 170. In short, in various
   embodiments of the present invention, at any one time, DATA A may be received or
   provided by combiner-splitter 170 from or to power connection DOP, the DATA B signal
   may be received or provided by combiner-splitter 170 from or to power connection DOP, and
30 the power supply VBUS may be received or provided by combiner-splitter 170 from or to
   power connection DOP. Also, as shown above, receive and transmit data may be modulated
   at different frequencies such that either or both signal paths for DATA A and DATA B be
   may receive and transmit data simultaneously.
                                                    9

   1002001788
   [0043]     Figure 5 illustrates communication circuitry according to an embodiment of the
   present invention. In this figure, input and outputs of baseband circuit 110 may connect to
   combiner-splitter 170. Accordingly, a combined data and power signal may be received at
   power connection DOP. A baseband data signal may be extracted by filtering and provided
 5 to baseband circuit 110 in RF signal path 180. Baseband circuit 110 may provide a signal
   DATA A to other circuitry in the electronic device. In this example, either or both IF
   modulator/demodulator 130 and RF modulator/demodulator 140 may be powered down to
   save power and to prevent interference during data transmission. A second data signal may
   be extracted and filtered and provided to modem 160. Modem 160 may demodulate and
10 provide a DATA B signal to other circuitry on the electronic device. A power supply signal
   VBUS may be extracted from the combined signal at the power connector DOP. In this and
   other embodiments of the present invention, the power supply signal VBUS may be received
   by combiner-splitter 170 and provided at the power connection DOP to a second electronic
   device.
15 [0044]     In another example, data signal DATA A may be received by baseband circuit 110
   and provided to combiner-splitter 170. A second data signal DATA B may be received by
   modem 160. Modem 160 may modulate this signal and provide it to combiner-splitter 170.
   Combiner-splitter 170 may combine these data signals and provide them at the power
   connection DOP. As before, power supply VBUS may be received by combiner-splitter 170
20 and provided to power connection DOP, or it may be received at power connection DOP and
   provided to the electronic device by combiner-splitter 170.
   [0045]     In various embodiments of the present invention, it may be desirable to transmit and
   receive IF modulated signals on the wired power connection DOP. In various embodiments
   of the present invention, the IF modulator/demodulator 130 may not exist, or it may not be
25 accessible outside of the RF signal path. For example, an RF signal path may be a circuit that
   has been previously used and is not amenable to alterations that may be needed to gain access
   to IF modulator/demodulator 130. In these examples, the second signal path 180 may include
   an IF modulator/demodulator. An example is shown in the following figure.
   [0046]     Figure 6 illustrates communications circuitry according to an embodiment of the
30 present invention. In this example, inputs and outputs of baseband circuitry 110 may connect
   to IF modulator/demodulator 610. Accordingly, a combined data and power signal may be
   received at power connection DOP. An IF modulated data signal may be extracted by
   filtering and provided to IF modulator/demodulator 610 in signal path 190. IF
   modulator/demodulator 610 may provide demodulated data to baseband circuit 110, which
                                                  10

   1002001788
   may provide a signal DATA A to other circuitry in the electronic device. In this example,
   either or both IF modulator/demodulator 130 and RF modulator/demodulator 140 may be
   powered down to save power and to prevent interference during data transmission. A second
   data signal may be extracted and filtered and provided to modem 160. Modem 160 may
 5 demodulate and provide a DATA B signal to other circuitry on the electronic device. A
   power supply signal VBUS may be extracted from the combined signal at the power
   connector DOP. In this and other embodiments of the present invention, the power supply
   signal VBUS may be received by combiner-splitter 170 and provided at the power connection
   DOP to a second electronic device.
10 [0047]     In another example, data signal DATA A may be received by baseband circuit 110
   and provided to IF modulator/demodulator 610. IF modulator/demodulator 610 may provide
   a modulated signal to combiner-splitter 170. A second data signal DATA B may be received
   by modem 160. Modem 160 may modulate this signal and provide it to combiner-splitter
   170. Combiner-splitter 170 may combine these data signals and provide them at the power
15 connection DOP. As before, power supply VBUS may be received by combiner-splitter 170
   and provided to power connection DOP, or it may be received at power connection DOP and
   provided to the electronic device by combiner-splitter 170.
   [0048]     In various embodiments of the present invention, it may be desirable to form the
   second signal path 190 as an integrated circuit that may be used in various applications. An
20 example is shown in the following figure.
   [0049]     Figure 7 illustrates communications circuitry according to an embodiment of the
   present invention. In various applications, different nodes of the RF signal path 180 may be
   accessible to the second signal path 190. For example, the inputs and outputs of baseband
   circuit 110 may be accessible while the inputs and outputs of IF modulator/demodulator 130
25 are not accessible. For this reason, IF modulator/demodulator 610 may be included as before.
   Additionally, a multiplexer 710 may also be included. Multiplexer 710 may be included for
   designs where the inputs and outputs of IF modulator/demodulator 130 are accessible. In this
   case, IF modulator/demodulator 610 may be bypassed using multiplexer 710 and the inputs
   and outputs of IF modulator/demodulator 130 may connect through multiplexer 710 to
30 combiner-splitter 170. Accordingly, a combined data and power signal may be received at
   power connection DOP. An IF modulated data signal may be extracted by filtering and
   provided to IF modulator/demodulator 610 via multiplexer 710 in signal path 190. IF
   modulator/demodulator 610 may provide demodulated data to baseband circuit 110, which
   may provide a signal DATA A to other circuitry in the electronic device. Alternatively, an IF
                                                  11

   1002001788
   modulated data signal may be extracted by filtering and provided to IF
   modulator/demodulator 130 in signal path 190 via multiplexer 710. IF
   modulator/demodulator 130 may provide demodulated data to baseband circuit 110, which
   may provide data signal DATA A to other circuitry in the electronic device. In this example,
 5 any or all of IF modulator/demodulator 130, IF modulator/demodulator 160, and RF
   modulator/demodulator 140 may be powered down to save power and to prevent interference
   during data transmission. A second data signal may be extracted and filtered and provided to
   modem 160. Modem 160 may demodulate and provide a DATA B signal to other circuitry
   on the electronic device. A power supply signal VBUS may be extracted from the combined
10 signal at the power connector DOP. In this and other embodiments of the present invention,
   the power supply signal VBUS may be received by combiner-splitter 170 and provided at the
   power connection DOP to a second electronic device.
   [0050]     In another example, data signal DATA A may be received by baseband circuit 110
   and provided either to IF modulator/demodulator 610 or IF modulator/demodulator 130. IF
15 modulator/demodulator 610 or IF modulator/demodulator 130 may provide a modulated
   signal to combiner-splitter 170. A second data signal DATA B may be received by modem
    160. Modem 160 may modulate this signal and provide it to combiner-splitter 170.
   Combiner-splitter 170 may combine these data signals and provide them at the power
   connection DOP. As before, power supply VBUS may be received by combiner-splitter 170
20 and provided to power connection DOP, or it may be received at power connection DOP and
   provided to the electronic device by combiner-splitter 170.
   [0051]     Embodiments of the present invention may provide communications circuits for
   various types of devices, such as portable computing devices, tablet computers, desktop
   computers, laptops, all-in-one computers, wearable computing devices, cell phones, smart
25 phones, media phones, storage devices, portable media players, navigation systems, monitors,
   power supplies, adapters, remote control devices, chargers, and other devices. These
   communications circuits may provide pathways for signals that are compliant with one or
   more various standards such as Universal Serial Bus (USB), High-Definition Multimedia
   Interfaces (HDMI), Digital Visual Interface (DVI), Ethernet, DisplayPort, Thunderbot      TM,
30 LightningTM, Joint Test Action Group (JTAG), test-access-port (TAP), Directed Automated
   Random Testing (DART), universal asynchronous receiver/transmitters (UARTs), clock
   signals, power signals, and other types of standard, non-standard, and proprietary interfaces
   and combinations thereof that have been developed, are being developed, or will be
   developed in the future. In various embodiments of the present invention, the paths provided
                                                  12

   1002001788
   by these communication circuits may be used to convey power, ground, signals, test points,
   and other voltage, current, data, or other information.
   [0052]     The above description of embodiments of the invention has been presented for the
   purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the
 5 invention to the precise form described, and many modifications and variations are possible
   in light of the teaching above. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best
   explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications to thereby enable others
   skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and with various
   modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Thus, it will be appreciated
10 that the invention is intended to cover all modifications and equivalents within the scope of
   the following claims.
                                                      13

1002001788
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
                1.       An electronic device comprising:
                a baseband circuit to receive first data;
                a first modulation circuit coupled to the baseband circuit, the first modulation
circuit to modulate the first data from the baseband circuit to a first frequency;
                a modem circuit to receive second data, the modem circuit to modulate the
second data to a second frequency; and
                a combiner circuit to combine the first data from the first modulation circuit,
the second data from the modem circuit, and a power supply voltage and to provide the
combined first data, second data, and power supply voltage over a wire.
               2.        The electronic device of claim 1 further comprising a second
modulation circuit coupled to the first modulation circuit, the second modulation circuit to
modulate the first data to a second frequency.
                3.       An electronic device comprising:
                a first signal path for transmitting and receiving a first data signal wirelessly;
and
                a second signal path for transmitting and receiving the first data signal and a
second data signal over a wire, wherein when the second signal path transmits the first data
signal and the second data signal, the second signal path transmits the first data signal and the
second data signal simultaneously, and when the second signal path receives the first data
signal and the second data signal, the second signal path receives the first data signal and the
second data signal simultaneously, and
               where the first signal path is not configured to transmit or receive the second
data signal.
               4.        An electronic device comprising:
                a first data path comprising:
                         a baseband circuit having a first input/output port to receive or provide
first data;
                         an intermediate frequency modulator/demodulator circuit having a first
input/output port coupled to a second input/output port of the baseband circuit; and
                                                  14

1002001788
                        a radio frequency modulator/demodulator circuit having a first
input/output port coupled to a second input/output port of the intermediate frequency
modulator/demodulator circuit; and
                 a second data path comprising:
                        a combiner/splitter circuit connected directly to the second input/output
port of the intermediate frequency modulator/demodulator circuit and the first input/output
port of the radio frequency modulator/demodulator circuit; and
                        a modem circuit coupled to the combiner/splitter circuit.
                 5.     The electronic device of claim 4 wherein a first input/output port of the
intermediate frequency modulator/demodulator circuit is coupled to a first input/output port
of the radio frequency modulator/demodulator circuit and a first input/output terminal of the
combiner/splitter circuit.
                                                15

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
