1002020585
ABSTRACT
         A belt for suspending and/or driving an elevator system component include
one or more metallic cord tension elements extending along a length of the belt, and
one or more non-metallic tension elements extending along a length of the belt. Each
non-metallic tension element is formed from a non-metallic material. The one or more
metallic cord tension elements and the one or more non-metallic tension elements are
arrayed laterally across a lateral width of the belt. The belt may be used in an elevator
system including a hoistway, a drive machine having a traction sheave coupled
thereto, an elevator car movable within the hoistway. The belt is operably connected
to the elevator car and interactive with the traction sheave to suspend and/or drive the
elevator car along the hoistway.

                                2/4
                      FIG. 2             28          16
                                                          34
30                                                      '
                                                          38
                                                           36
       40
   36                32              42
                     32
           38                         46b
                  46b    46a
                                  N7        44
             44                                  46b
             44
          44p
      46b
       44                                      44
                                                 44
            44
                                             46b
                46b
                           FIG. 3

1002020585
                    ELEVATOR SYSTEM SUSPENSION MEMBER
BACKGROUND
          [0001] The subject matter disclosed herein relates to elevator systems. More
particularly, the present disclosure relates to suspension members of elevator systems.
          [0002] A typical elevator system includes an elevator car, suspended by one or
more suspension members, typically a rope or belt, that moves along a hoistway. The
suspension member includes one or more tension members and is routed over one or
more sheaves, with one sheave, also known as a drive sheave, operably connected to a
machine. The machine drives movement of the elevator car via interaction of the drive
sheave with the suspension member. The elevator system further typically includes a
counterweight interactive with the suspension member. One or more of the ends of the
suspension member are terminated, or retained in the hoistway.
          [0003] As buildings reach new heights in their construction, with some
architectural designs over 1 kilometer, more advanced hoisting methods are necessary
for efficiently transport of people and materials throughout the building.          One
limitation of conventional hoisting is the weight of conventional steel cable as it is
only capable of rises of ~ 700 m.         To address this, tension members have been
developed using lightweight tension elements, such as those formed from carbon
fiber, as these have a substantially higher specific strength and will allow hoisting
solutions that can accommodate the proposed architectural designs of over 1 kilometer
and there is substantial advantage of using lightweight tension members in buildings
of even rises down to ~ 300 m.
BRIEF SUMMARY
          [0004] In one embodiment, a belt for suspending and/or driving an elevator
system component include one or more metallic cord tension elements extending
along a length of the belt, and one or more non-metallic tension elements extending
along a length of the belt. Each non-metallic tension element is formed from a non
                                              1

1002020585
metallic material. The one or more metallic cord tension elements and the one or more
non-metallic tension elements are arrayed laterally across a lateral width of the belt.
          [0005] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments a laterally
outboardmost metallic cord tension element of the one or more metallic cord tension
elements is located laterally outboard of the laterally outboardmost non-metallic
tension element of the one or more non-metallic tension elements.
          [0006] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments a non
metallic tension element of the one or more non-metallic tension elements is located
laterally between two metallic cord tension elements of the one or more metallic cord
tension elements.
          [0007] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the belt
includes a jacket, wherein the one or more metallic cord tension elements and the one
or more non-metallic tension elements are at least partially encased in the jacket.
          [0008] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the jacket is
formed from a polymer material.
          [0009] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments each
metallic cord tension element of the one or more metallic cord tension elements has a
greater effective cross-sectional diameter than each non-metallic tension element of
the one or more non-metallic tension elements.
          [0010] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments each non
metallic tension element includes a plurality of fibers extending along a length of the
non-metallic tension element and a polymer matrix into which the plurality of fibers
are bonded.
          [0011] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the plurality
of fibers are formed from one or more of carbon, glass, polyester, nylon, or aramid
material.
                                              2

1002020585
          [0012] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments each
metallic cord tension element is formed from a plurality of steel wires arranged into a
cord.
          [0013] In another embodiment an elevator system includes a hoistway, a drive
machine having a traction sheave coupled thereto, an elevator car movable within the
hoistway, and at least one belt operably connected to the elevator car and interactive
with the traction sheave to suspend and/or drive the elevator car along the hoistway.
The belt includes one or more metallic cord tension elements extending along a length
of the belt, each metallic cord tension element including a plurality of steel wires
arranged into a cord and one or more non-metallic tension elements extending along a
length of the belt, each non-metallic tension element formed from a non-metallic
material. The one or more metallic cord tension elements and the one or more non
metallic tension elements are arrayed laterally across a lateral width of the belt.
          [0014] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments a laterally
outboardmost metallic cord tension element of the one or more metallic cord tension
elements is located laterally outboard of the laterally outboardmost non-metallic
tension element of the one or more non-metallic tension elements.
          [0015] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments a non
metallic tension element of the one or more non-metallic tension elements is located
laterally between two metallic cord tension elements of the one or more metallic cord
tension elements.
          [0016] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the belt
includes a jacket, wherein the one or more metallic cord tension elements and the one
or more non-metallic tension elements are at least partially encased in the jacket.
          [0017] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the jacket is
formed from a polymer material.
          [0018] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments each
metallic cord tension element of the one or more metallic cord tension elements has a
                                             3

1002020585
greater effective cross-sectional diameter than each non-metallic tension element of
the one or more non-metallic tension elements.
          [0019] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments each non
metallic tension element includes a plurality of fibers extending along a length of the
non-metallic tension element and a polymer matrix into which the plurality of fibers
are bonded.
          [0020] Additionally or alternatively, in this or other embodiments the plurality
of fibers are formed from one or more of carbon, glass, polyester, nylon, or aramid
material.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
          [0021] The subject matter is particularly pointed out and distinctly claimed at
the conclusion of the specification. The foregoing and other features, and advantages
of the present disclosure are apparent from the following detailed description taken in
conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which:
          [0022] FIG. 1 is a schematic view of an exemplary elevator system;
          [0023] FIG. 2 is a cross-sectional view of an embodiment of a belt for an
elevator system;
          [0024] FIG. 3 illustrates an embodiment of a cord tension element for a belt of
an elevator system;
          [0025] FIG. 4 illustrates an embodiment of a fiber tension element for a belt of
an elevator system; and
          [0026] FIG. 5 is a cross-sectional view of an embodiment of a belt for an
elevator system.
                                              4

1002020585
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
          [0027] Shown in FIG. 1, is a schematic view of an exemplary traction elevator
system 10. Features of the elevator system 10 that are not required for an
understanding of the present invention (such as the guide rails, safeties, etc.) are not
discussed herein. The elevator system 10 includes an elevator car 12 operatively
suspended or supported in a hoistway 14 with one or more belts 16. The one or more
belts 16 interact with one or more sheaves 18 to be routed around various components
of the elevator system 10. The one or more belts 16 could also be connected to a
counterweight 22, which is used to help balance the elevator system 10 and reduce the
difference in belt tension on both sides of the traction sheave during operation.
          [0028] The sheaves 18 each have a diameter 20, which may be the same or
different than the diameters of the other sheaves 18 in the elevator system 10. At least
one of the sheaves could be a traction sheave 24. The traction sheave 24 is driven by a
machine 26. Movement of drive sheave by the machine 26 drives, moves and/or
propels (through traction) the one or more belts 16 that are routed around the traction
sheave 24. At least one of the sheaves 18 could be a diverter, deflector or idler sheave.
Diverter, deflector or idler sheaves are not driven by a machine 26, but help guide the
one or more belts 16 around the various components of the elevator system 10.
          [0029] In some embodiments, the elevator system 10 could use two or more
belts 16 for suspending and/or driving the elevator car 12. In addition, the elevator
system 10 could have various configurations such that either both sides of the one or
more belts 16 engage the one or more sheaves 18 or only one side of the one or more
belts 16 engages the one or more sheaves 18. The embodiment of FIG 1 shows a 1:1
roping arrangement in which the one or more belts 16 terminate at the car 12 and
counterweight 22, while other embodiments may utilize other roping arrangements.
          [0030] The belts 16 are constructed to have sufficient flexibility when passing
over the one or more sheaves 18 to provide low bending stresses, meet belt life
requirements and have smooth operation, while being sufficiently strong to be capable
of meeting strength requirements for suspending and/or driving the elevator car 12.
                                             5

1002020585
          [0031] FIG. 2 provides a cross-sectional schematic of an exemplary belt 16
construction or design. The belt 16 has a belt width 28 and a belt thickness 30 with an
aspect ratio of belt width 28 to belt thickness 30 greater than one. The belt 16 defines
a traction side 32, which is interactive with the traction sheave 24 and a back side 34
opposite the traction side 32. The belt 16 further defines belt edges 36 extending
between the traction side 32 and the back side 34.
          [0032] The belt 16 includes a plurality of tension elements extending
longitudinally along the belt 16. In this hybrid belt construction, the belt 16 includes
both one or more metallic cord tension elements 38 and one or more non-metallic
tension elements 40. In some embodiments, as shown in FIG. 3, the metallic cord
tension elements 38 are formed from a plurality of steel wires 44, which may be
arranged into strands 46, and grouped to form the metallic cord tension element 38. In
some embodiments, the metallic cord tension element 38 includes a center strand 46a
and a number of outer strands 46b located around the center strand 46a. In some
embodiments all of strands 46a, 46b are identical, while in other embodiments, the
center strand 46a has a construction or configuration that differs from the outer
strands 46b. Further, in some embodiments, the metallic cord tension elements 38 are
identically configured, while in other embodiments the metallic cord tension elements
38 may differ in configuration based on, for example, a lateral position of the cord
tension element 38 in the belt 16.
          [0033] Referring now to FIG. 4, an embodiment of a non-metallic tension
element 40 is illustrated. In some embodiments, the non-metallic tension element 40
includes a plurality of fibers 48, for example, carbon fibers, bonded to a polymer
matrix 50 to form the non-metallic tension element 40. The fibers 48 are continuous
or discontinuous or combination of continuous and discontinuous over the belt 16
length, and oriented generally such that a fiber 48 length is directed along the belt 16
length. The fibers 48 may be formed of one or more of a number of materials, such as
carbon, glass, polyester, nylon, aramid or other polyimide materials. Further, the
fibers 48 may be organized into a grouping, such as a spun yam. The polymer matrix
50 may be formed of, for example a thermoset or thermoplastic material. The non
metallic tension element 40 may further be configured to have a fiber 48 density of
                                            6

 1002020585
30% to 70% fibers 48 per unit of volume. In some embodiments, the fibers 48 may
vary in size, length or circumference and may further be intentionally varied to
provide a selected maximum fiber 48 density. While the non-metallic tension
elements 40 in the embodiment of FIG. 4 are rectangular in cross-section, it is to be
appreciated that other cross-sectional shapes, such as circular, may be utilized in other
embodiments. Further, while carbon fibers are utilized in some embodiments, one
skilled in the art will readily appreciate that other types of fibers or yams or the like or
constructions without fibers 48 may be utilized to form non-metallic tension element
40.
           [0034] In some embodiments, the tension elements are grouped, with a non
metallic tension element 40 positioned laterally between two metallic cord tension
elements 38. Further, as shown in FIG. 2, the metallic cord tension elements 38 may
have a greater effective diameter that the non-metallic tension elements 40. Further, in
some embodiments, a bending stiffness of the metallic cord tension element 38 is
similar to a bending stiffness of the non-metallic tension element 40. In some
embodiments, the bending stiffnesses are within +/-5% of each other. The metallic
cord tension elements 38 and the non-metallic tension elements 40 are at least
partially encased in a jacket 42. The jacket 42 may define one or more of the traction
side 32, the back side 34, and/or the belt edges 36. In some embodiments, the jacket
42 is formed from a polymer material such as a thermoplastic polyurethane (TPU). It
is to be appreciated that in other embodiments other materials may be utilized in
jacket 42.
           [0035] In other embodiments, other arrangements of metallic cord tension
elements 38 and non-metallic tension elements 40 may be utilized. One such
embodiment is illustrated in FIG. 5. In the embodiment of FIG. 5, the belt 16 includes
four non-metallic tension elements 40 located at a lateral center of the belt 16
bounded by metallic cord tension elements 38 located laterally outboard of the non
metallic tension elements 40. In the embodiment shown in FIG. 5, two metallic cord
tension elements 38 are located at each lateral side of the non-metallic tension
elements 40, but one skilled in the art will readily appreciate that other quantities of
metallic cord tension elements 38 and non-metallic tension elements 40 may be
                                              7

1002020585
utilized. In some embodiments, it is preferable for metallic cord tension elements 38
to be located laterally outboard of the non-metallic tension elements 40.
          [0036] Utilizing a combination of metallic cord tension elements 38 and non
metallic fiber tension elements 40 provides a belt 16 that is lighter per unit length than
a traditional coated steel belt, while maintaining high braking load requirements of the
belt 16. The lighter belt 16 significantly reduces sheave load and machine loads, thus
allowing smaller machines for higher lift elevator systems 10. Further, the belt 16
improves performance in the event of jacket failure or extreme jacket abrasion, when
compared to a belt having only fiber tension elements.
          [0037] While the present disclosure has been described in detail in connection
with only a limited number of embodiments, it should be readily understood that the
present disclosure is not limited to such disclosed embodiments. Rather, the present
disclosure can be modified to incorporate any number of variations, alterations,
substitutions or equivalent arrangements not heretofore described, but which are
commensurate in spirit and/or scope. Additionally, while various embodiments have
been described, it is to be understood that aspects of the present disclosure may
include only some of the described embodiments. Accordingly, the present disclosure
is not to be seen as limited by the foregoing description, but is only limited by the
scope of the appended claims.
                                             8

1002020585
CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
          1. A belt for suspending and/or driving an elevator system component,
comprising:
         one or more metallic cord tension elements extending along a length of the
belt; and
         one or more non-metallic tension elements extending along a length of the
belt, each non-metallic tension element formed from a non-metallic material;
         wherein the one or more metallic cord tension elements and the one or more
non-metallic tension elements are arrayed laterally across a lateral width of the belt.
         2. The belt of claim 1, wherein a laterally outboardmost metallic cord tension
element of the one or more metallic cord tension elements is located laterally outboard
of the laterally outboardmost non-metallic tension element of the one or more non
metallic tension elements.
         3. The belt of claim 1, wherein a non-metallic tension element of the one or
more non-metallic tension elements is located laterally between two metallic cord
tension elements of the one or more metallic cord tension elements.
         4. The belt of claim 1, further comprising a jacket, wherein the one or more
metallic cord tension elements and the one or more non-metallic tension elements are
at least partially encased in the jacket.
         5. The belt of claim 4, wherein the jacket is formed from a polymer material.
         6. The belt of claim 1, wherein each metallic cord tension element of the one
or more metallic cord tension elements has a greater effective cross-sectional diameter
than each non-metallic tension element of the one or more non-metallic tension
elements.
                                              9

1002020585
         7. The belt of claim 1, wherein each non-metallic tension element includes:
a plurality of fibers extending along a length of the non-metallic tension element; and
         a polymer matrix into which the plurality of fibers are bonded.
         8. The belt of claim 7, wherein the plurality of fibers are formed from one or
more of carbon, glass, polyester, nylon, or aramid material.
         9. The belt of claim 1, wherein each metallic cord tension element is formed
from a plurality of steel wires arranged into a cord.
          10. An elevator system, comprising:
         a hoistway;
         a drive machine having a traction sheave coupled thereto;
         an elevator car movable within the hoistway; and
         at least one belt operably connected to the elevator car and interactive with the
traction sheave to suspend and/or drive the elevator car along the hoistway, the belt
including:
         one or more metallic cord tension elements extending along a length of the
belt, each metallic cord tension element including a plurality of steel wires arranged
into a cord; and
                  one or more non-metallic tension elements extending along a length of
the belt, each non-metallic tension element formed from a non-metallic material;
                  wherein the one or more metallic cord tension elements and the one or
more non-metallic tension elements are arrayed laterally across a lateral width of the
belt.
                                             10

1002020585
          11. The elevator system of claim 10, wherein a laterally outboardmost metallic
cord tension element of the one or more metallic cord tension elements is located
laterally outboard of the laterally outboardmost non-metallic tension element of the
one or more non-metallic tension elements.
          12. The elevator system of claim 10, wherein a non-metallic tension element
of the one or more non-metallic tension elements is located laterally between two
metallic cord tension elements of the one or more metallic cord tension elements.
          13. The elevator system of claim 10, further comprising a jacket, wherein the
one or more metallic cord tension elements and the one or more non-metallic tension
elements are at least partially encased in the jacket.
          14. The elevator system of claim 13, wherein the jacket is formed from a
polymer material.
          15. The elevator system of claim 10, wherein each metallic cord tension
element of the one or more metallic cord tension elements has a greater effective
cross-sectional diameter than each non-metallic tension element of the one or more
non-metallic tension elements.
          16. The elevator system of claim 10, wherein each non-metallic tension
element includes:
         a plurality of fibers extending along a length of the non-metallic tension
         element; and
         a polymer matrix into which the plurality of fibers are bonded.
          17. The elevator system of claim 16, wherein the plurality of fibers are formed
from one or more of carbon, glass, polyester, nylon, or aramid material.
                                             11

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           

