                                           ABSTRACT
      The utility model discloses a multifunctional insert assembly for furniture, comprising
inserts to be fixed on the furniture, auxiliary inserts inserted in the inserts and functional insert
rods inserted in the auxiliary inserts, wherein each insert comprises three hollow square tube
shaped insert posts and fixing plates arranged at the two ends of each of the three insert posts
at the same time; each auxiliary insert is in the form of a hollow columnar structure with
round inside and square outside; and each functional insert rod is a rod formed by bending
round steel into a specific shape. The key points of the technical solution are as follows: the
inserts are fixed at the four corners of a sofa frame, and then the auxiliary inserts are inserted
into the insert posts. When adjacent sofa frames, or a sofa frame and a backrest frame, or a
sofa frame and a sofa iron case armrest frame are desired to be connected and fixed, they can
be connected by the functional insert rods to form a sofa, beds or a coffee table of different
areas and in different configurations ,in that to achieve the effect of making the sofa more
combinations

       1/13
   161
16               2
               3
        Fig. I

                 MULTIFUNCTIONAL INSERT ASSEMBLY FOR FURNITURE
      Field
      The utility model relates to the technical field of furniture installation, in particular to a
multifunctional insert assembly for furniture.
      Background
      Furniture refers to the basic categories of apparatus and equipment essential to
humankind's normal life, production practices and social activities. Commonly used furniture
includes beds, sofas and coffee tables. The existing Chinese Patent Publication No.
CN103156428A provides a connecting structure for combined sofas. The connecting structure
comprises two separate sofas. Each of the two separate sofas comprises a front sofa legs, back
sofa legs and a backrest, wherein a first connector is arranged between the adjacent front sofa
legs, a second connector is arranged between the adjacent back sofa legs, and a third
connector is arranged between the adjacent backrests; through insertion and detachment of the
first connector, the second connector and the third connector, the adjacent separate sofas are
combined and disassembled.
      However, the connection by such connectors can only make the sofas connected in one
way and limits the use function of the sofas; therefore, it needs to be improved.
      Summary
      In view of defects of the prior art, the utility model is intended to provide a
multifunctional insert assembly for furniture, which has the advantage of enabling sofas to
have more combinations.
      For achieving the above purpose,the utility model provides the following technical
solution: a multifunctional insert assembly for furniture, comprising inserts to be fixed on the
furniture, auxiliary inserts inserted in the inserts, and functional insert rods inserted in the
auxiliary inserts, wherein each insert comprises three hollow square tube-shaped insert posts
and fixing plates arranged at the two ends of each of the three insert posts at the same time;
each auxiliary insert is in the form of a hollow columnar structure with round inside and
square outside; and each functional insert rod is a rod formed by bending round steel into a
specific shape.
                                                  1

     According the technical solution, the inserts are fixed at the four corners of a sofa frame,
and then the auxiliary inserts are inserted into the insert posts. When adjacent sofa frames, or
a sofa frame and a backrest frame, or a sofa frame and a sofa iron case armrest frame are
desired to be connected and fixed, they can be connected by the functional insert rods to form
a sofa, a bed or a coffee table with different areas and in different configurations to achieve
the effect of enabling the sofas to have more combinations.
     Further, the functional insert rod is a pillow frame insert rod, and the pillow frame insert
rod comprises a pillow frame insert rod first bending portion and a pillow frame insert rod
second bending portion; and the inclined angle between the pillow frame insert rod first
bending portion and the pillow frame insert rod second bending portion is 98 -102 .
     By adopting the above technical solution, when it is required to use a backrest frame as a
pillow, the backrest frame and a sofa frame can be fixedly connected through the pillow
frame insert rod so that the sofa can be used as a bed.
     Further, the functional insert rod is a sofa back insert rod which is f-shaped. The sofa
back insert rod comprises a sofa back insert rod first bending portion, a sofa back insert rod
second bending portion, a sofa back insert rod third bending portion, a sofa back insert rod
fourth bending portion and a sofa back insert rod fifth bending portion; inclined angles
between the sofa back insert rod first bending portion and the sofa back insert rod second
bending portion and between the sofa back insert rod second bending portion and the sofa
back insert rod third bending portion are 94     -98   ; the inclined angle between the sofa back
insert rod third bending portion and the sofa back insert rod fourth bending portion is 117     0
 120 0; and the inclined angle between the sofa back insert rod fourth bending portion and the
sofa back insert rod fifth bending portion is 102    -105 .
     By adopting the above technical solution, when it is neccessary to install a backrest
frame on a sofa frame, the backrest frame and the sofa frame are fixedly connected by the
sofa back insert rod; recesses formed by the sofa back insert rod second bending portion, the
sofa back insert rod third bending portion and the sofa back insert rod fourth bending portion
make space for sofa cushions to place sofa cushions.
     Further, the functional insert rod is a sofa iron case armrest insert rod; the sofa iron case
armrest insert rod comprises a sofa iron case armrest insert rod first bending portion, a sofa
iron case armrest insert rod second bending portion, and a sofa iron case armrest insert rod
                                                   2

third bending portion; the sofa iron case armrest insert rod first bending portion and the sofa
 iron case armrest insert rod third bending portion are respectively located on the two sides of
the sofa iron case armrest insert rod second bending portion; and inclined angles between the
 sofa iron case armrest insert rod first bending portion and the sofa iron case armrest insert rod
 second bending portion and between the sofa iron case armrest insert rod second bending
portion and the sofa iron case armrest insert rod third bending portion are both 90 .
      By adopting the above technical solution, when it is needed to install the sofa iron case
 armrest on the sofa frame, the sofa frame and the sofa iron case armrest are fixedly connected
through the sofa iron case armrest insert rod.
      Further, the functional insert rod is a sofa connecting insert rod; the sofa connecting
 insert rod comprises a sofa connecting insert rod first bending portion, a sofa connecting
 insert rod second bending portion, and a sofa connecting insert rod third bending portion; the
 sofa connecting insert rod first bending portion and the sofa connecting insert rod third
bending portion are located at the same sides of the sofa connecting insert rod second bending
portion; and inclined angles between the sofa connecting insert rod first bending portion and
the sofa connecting insert rod second bending portion and between the sofa connecting insert
rod second bending portion and the sofa connecting insert rod third bending portion are both
 90 0.
      By adopting the above technical solution, when it is required to joint adjacent sofa
 frames together, the sofa frames can be connected through the sofa connecting insert rod to
joint them together to form sofas with different areas.
      Further, the functional insert rod is a support frame insert rod; the support frame insert
rod comprises a support frame insert rod first bending portion, a support frame insert rod
 second bending portion, and a support frame insert rod third bending portion; the support
 frame insert rod first bending portion and the support frame insert rod third bending portion
 are respectively located on the two sides of the support frame insert rod second bending
portion; and an inclined angle between the support frame insert rod first bending portion and
the support frame insert rod second bending portion is 99 101Oand an inclined angle between
the support frame insert rod second bending portion and the support frame insert rod third
bending portion is 940-960.
                                                  3

     By adopting the above technical solution, when it is desired to place a tray on one side of
a sofa, the tray is fixedly connected to a sofa frame through the support insert rod.
     Further, the functional insert rod is a disk support frame insert rod; the disk support
frame insert rod comprises a disk support frame insert rod first bending portion, a disk
support frame insert rod second bending portion, and a disk support frame insert rod third
bending portion; the disk support frame insert rod first bending portion and the disk support
frame insert rod third bending portion are located on the two sides of the disk support frame
insert rod second bending portion; and an inclined angle between the disk support frame
insert rod first bending portion and the disk support frame insert rod second bending portion
is 99'-101-and an inclined angle between the disk support frame insert rod second bending
portion and the disk support frame insert rod third bending portion are 1000.
     By adopting the above technical solution, when it is neccessary to install a disk on one
side of a sofa, the disk is fixedly connected to a sofa frame through the disk support insert
rod.
     Further, the auxiliary insert is a connection auxiliary insert; the connection auxiliary
insert comprises a connection auxiliary insert square post and a connection auxiliary insert
bowl; a connection auxiliary insert round hole is formed inside the connection auxiliary insert
square post; the connection auxiliary insert bowl is configured as communicated with the
connection auxiliary insert round hole.
     By adopting the above technical solution, when it is desired to insert the functional insert
rod into the connection auxiliary insert round hole, the connection auxiliary insert bowl can
guide the functional insert rod, so that the functional insert rod can be inserted into the
connection auxiliary insert round hole.
     Further, a connection auxiliary insert square fixture block is arranged between the
connection auxiliary insert square post and the connection auxiliary insert bowl; the
connection auxiliary insert square fixture post is cross-connected with the connection
auxiliary insert square fixture block.
     By adopting the above technical solution, the connection auxiliary insert square fixture
block is supported against fixing plates, so as to locate the position where the connecting
auxiliary insert square post is inserted into an insert post.
                                                   4

     Further, the auxiliary insert is a base auxiliary insert, and the base auxiliary insert
comprises a base auxiliary insert square post and a base auxiliary insert clip located at one
end of the base auxiliary insert square post; a base auxiliary insert round hole is formed inside
the base auxiliary insert square post.
     By adopting the above technical solution, when it is desired to install a support leg on a
sofa, a threaded rod on the support leg is in threaded connection with the base auxiliary insert
round hole so that the support leg is installed on the supporting foot.
      In summary, the utility model has the following beneficial effects: 1. an assembly of a
sofa frame and a backrest frame is used to assemble a backed sofa or bed; and 2. articles can
be put on one side of a sofa by using an assembly of a sofa frame and a disk.
      Brief Description of the Drawings
     Fig. 1 is a structural schematic diagram of a multifunctional insert assembly for furniture
in the embodiment;
     Fig. 2 is a structural schematic diagram of a connection auxiliary insert in the
embodiment;
     Fig. 3 is a schematic diagram illustrating the connection between an base auxiliary insert
and a support leg in the embodiment;
     Fig. 4 is a structural schematic diagram of a pillow frame insert rod in the embodiment;
     Fig. 5 is a structural schematic diagram of a sofa back insert rod in the embodiment;
     Fig. 6 is a structural schematic diagram of a sofa iron case armrest insert rod in the
embodiment;
     Fig. 7 is a structural schematic diagram of a sofa connecting insert rod in the
embodiment;
     Fig. 8 is a structural schematic diagram of a support frame insert rod in the embodiment;
     Fig. 9 is a structural schematic diagram of a disk support frame insert rod in the
embodiment;
                                                  5

     Fig. 10 is a diagram illustrating the position relationship between an insert and a sofa
frame in the embodiment;
     Fig. 11 is a diagram illustrating a connecting structure for adjacent sofas in the
embodiment;
     Fig. 12 is a structural schematic diagram illustrating the installation relationship between
a backrest frame and a sofa frame in the embodiment;
     Fig. 13 is an enlarged view of part A of Fig. 12;
     Fig. 14 is a structural schematic diagram illustrating the installation relationship between
a sofa frame and a sofa iron case armrest frame in the embodiment;
     Fig. 15 is a schematic diagram illustrating the installation relationship between a tray and
a sofa frame in the embodiment; and
     Fig. 16 is a schematic diagram illustrating the installation relationship between a disk
and a sofa frame in the embodiment.
     In the figures: 1. sofa frame; 11. support leg; 111. threaded rod; 12. backrest frame; 121.
insertion hole; 13. sofa iron case armrest frame; 131. fixing hole; 14. tray; 141. tray mounting
hole; 15. disk; 151. disk mounting hole; 16. insert; 161. insert post; 162. fixing plate; 2.
connection auxiliary insert; 21. connection auxiliary insert square post; 211.connection
auxiliary insert round hole; 22. connection auxiliary insert bowl; 221. connection auxiliary
insert square fixture block; 3. base auxiliary insert; 31. base auxiliary insert square post; 311.
base auxiliary insert collar; 312. base auxiliary insert rib; 313.base auxiliary insert round hole;
3131. threaded tube; 32. base auxiliary insert clip; 4. pillow frame insert rod; 41. pillow frame
insert rod first bending portion; 42. pillow frame insert rod second bend portion; 5. sofa back
insert rod; 51. sofa back insert rod first bending portion; 52. sofa back insert rod second
bending portion; 53. sofa back insert rod third bending portion; 54. sofa back insert rod fourth
bending portion; 55. sofa back insert rod fifth bending portion; 6. sofa iron case armrest insert
rod; 61. sofa iron case armrest insert rod first bending portion; 62. sofa iron case armrest
insert rod second bending portion; 63; sofa iron case armrest insert rod third bending portion;
7. sofa connecting insert rod 71; sofa connecting insert rod first bending portion; 72. sofa
connecting insert rod second bending portion; 73. sofa connecting insert rod third bending
                                                   6

portion; 8. support frame insert rod; 81.support frame insert rod first bending portion; 82.
support frame insert rod second bending portion; 83. support frame insert rod third bending
portion; 9. disk support frame insert rod; 91. disk support frame insert rod first bending
portion; 92. disk support frame insert rod second bending portion; 93. disk support frame
insert rod third bending portion.
      Detailed Description of the Embodiment
      The utility model will be further described in detail below with reference to the
accompanying drawings.
      This embodiment is merely an explanation of the utility model, which is not intended to
limit the utility model. Those skilled in the art may, after reading the description, make
modifications without any creative contribution to this embodiment as needed. Any of the
modifications within the scope of claims of the utility mode shall be portected by the Patent
Law.
     Embodiment
     A multifunctional insert assembly for furniture comprises, as shown in Fig. 1, an insert
16, an auxiliary insert and a functional insert rod; the insert 16 is configured to be fixed on the
furniture and comprises three insert posts 161 and fixing plates 162 arranged at two ends of
each of the three insert posts 161 at the same time, the three insert posts 161 are each in the
form of a hollow square tube-shaped structure and are fixed together by welding; the two
fixing plates 162 are respectively fixed on the two ends of each insert post 161 by welding.
     Referring to Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, the auxiliary insert is inserted into the insert 16, and the
auxiliary insert is in the form of a hollow columnar structure with round inside and square
outside; the auxiliary insert comprises a connection auxiliary insert 2 and a base auxiliary
insert 3 which are both made of plastics by injection molding. The connection auxiliary insert
2 comprises a connection auxiliary insert square post 21 and a connection auxiliary insert
bowl 22; a connection auxiliary insert round hole 211 is formed inside the connection
auxiliary insert square post 21 to allow the insertion of the functional insert rod; the
connection auxiliary insert bowl 22 is configured as communicated with the connection
auxiliary insert round hole 211 to guide the functional insert rod to enter the connection
auxiliary insert round hole 211.
                                                  7

      Referring to Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, an connection auxiliary insert square fixture block 221 is
arranged between the connection auxiliary insert square post 21 and the connection auxiliary
insert bowl 22; the connection auxiliary insert square fixture post 21 is cross-connected with
the connection auxiliary insert square fixture block 221, and in this embodiment, the
connection auxiliary insert square fixture post 21 is cross-connected with the connection
auxiliary insert square fixture block 221 at an angle of 450; when the connection auxiliary
insert square post 21 is inserted in the insert post 161, the connection auxiliary insert square
fixture block 221 is supported against the fixing plates, so as to locate the connecting
auxiliary insert bowl 22 at the orifice of the insert post.
      Referring to Fig. 1 and Fig. 3, the base auxiliary insert 3 comprises a base auxiliary
insert square post 31 and a base auxiliary insert clip 32 located at one end of the base
auxiliary insert square post 31; the base auxiliary insert clip 32 can be supported against the
fixing plate 162 to locate the insertion distance of the base auxiliary insert square post 31 in
the insert post 161;; a base auxiliary insert round hole 313 is formed inside the base auxiliary
insert square post 31 to allow the threaded connection of a threaded rod 111 on a support leg
 11; a threaded tube 3131 is embedded in the inner wall of the base auxiliary insert round hole
313 and at one end of the base auxiliary insert clip 32; the inner side of the threaded tube
3131 is in threaded connection with the threaded rod 111 to avoid the quick wear of the inner
wall of the base auxiliary insert round hole 313.
      Referring to Fig. 3, a base auxiliary insert collar 311 is arranged on the outer wall of the
base auxiliary insert square post 31 in a circular way to increase the friction force between the
base auxiliary insert square post 31 and the inner wall of the insert post 161 (see FIG. 1) so
that the base auxiliary insert square post 31 is fixed in the insert post 161. The four outer
walls of the base auxiliary insert square post 31 are each provided with a base auxiliary insert
rib 312 along the length direction thereof to further increase the frictional force between the
base auxiliary insert square post 31 and the inner wall of the insert post 161.
      Referring to Fig. 4, the functional insert rod is configured to be inserted into the auxiliary
insert; the functional insert rod comprises a pillow frame insert rod 4, a sofa back insert rod 5
(see Fig. 5), a sofa iron case armrest insert rod 6 (see Fig. 6), a sofa connecting insert rod 7
(see Fig. 7), a support frame insert rod 8 (see Fig. 8) and a disk support frame insert rod 9 (see
Fig. 9). The pillow frame insert rod 4 comprises a pillow frame insert rod first bending
portion 41 and a pillow frame insert rod second bending portion 42; an inclined angle
                                                   8

between the pillow frame insert rod first bending portion 41 and the pillow frame insert rod
second bending portion 42 is 98        -102  0; and the pillow frame insert rod second bending
portion 42 is configured to be inserted into the connection auxiliary insert round hole 211 (see
Fig. 2).
      Referring to Fig. 5, a sofa back insert rod 5 which is £-shaped comprises a sofa back
insert rod first bending portion 51, a sofa back insert rod second bending portion 52, a sofa
back insert rod third bending portion 53, a sofa back insert rod fourth bending portion 54 and
a sofa back insert rod fifth bending portion 55; inclined angles between the sofa back insert
rod first bending portion 51 and the sofa back insert rod second bending portion 52 and
between the sofa back insert rod second bending portion 52 and the sofa back insert rod third
bending portion 53 are 94 ' -98      ; the inclined angle between the sofa back insert rod third
bending portion 53 and the sofa back insert rod fourth bending portion 54 is 117    0 -120 0; and
the inclined angle between the sofa back insert rod fourth bending portion 54 and the sofa
back insert rod fifth bending portion 55 is 102   0  -105 . Wherein the sofa back insert rod first
bending portion 51 is configured to be inserted into the connection auxiliary insert round hole
211 (see FIG. 2).
      Referring to Fig. 6, a sofa iron case armrest insert rod 6 comprises a sofa iron case
armrest insert rod first bending portion 61, a sofa iron case armrest insert rod second bending
portion 62 and a sofa iron case armrest insert rod third bending portion 63 ; the sofa iron case
armrest insert rod first bending portion 61 and the sofa iron case armrest insert rod third
bending portion 63 are respectively located on the two sides of the sofa iron case armrest
insert rod second bending portion 62; and inclined angles between the sofa iron case armrest
insert rod first bending portion 61 and the sofa iron case armrest insert rod second bending
portion 62 and between the sofa iron case armrest insert rod second bending portion 62 and
the sofa iron case armrest insert rod third bending portion 63 are both 90    0; wherein both the
sofa iron case armrest insert rod first bending portion 61 and the sofa iron case armrest insert
rod third bending portion 63 can be inserted in the connection auxiliary insert round hole 211
(see FIG. 2).
      Referring to Fig. 7, a sofa connecting insert rod 7 comprises a sofa connecting insert rod
first bending portion 71, a sofa connecting insert rod second bending portion 72 and a sofa
connecting insert rod third bending portion 73; the sofa connecting insert rod first bending
portion 71 and the sofa connecting insert rod third bending portion 73 are bending toward the
                                                   9

sofa connecting insert rod second bending portion 72 in the same direction; inclined angles
between the sofa connecting insert rod first bending portion 71 and the sofa connecting insert
rod second bending portion 72 and between the sofa connecting insert rod second bending
portion 72 and the sofa inserting insert rod third bending portion 73 are both 90       0; the sofa
connecting insert rod first bending portion 71 and the sofa connecting insert rod third bending
portion 73 are both inserted into the connection auxiliary insert round hole 211 (see FIG. 2) .
      Referring to Fig. 8, a support frame insert rod 8 comprises a support frame insert rod
first bending portion 81, a support frame insert rod second bending portion 82 and a support
frame insert rod third bending portion 83; the support frame insert rod first bending portion 81
and the support frame insert rod third bending portion 83 are respectively located on two sides
of the support frame insert rod second bending portion 82; an inclined angle between the
support frame insert rod first bending portion 81 and the support frame insert rod second
bending portion 82 is 99O 101 and an inclined angle between the support frame insert rod
second bending portion 82 and the sofa inserting insert rod third bending portion 83 is 94'
960; wherein the support frame insert rod third bending portion 83 is configured to be inserted
into the connection auxiliary insert round hole 211 (see FIG. 2) .
      Referring to Fig. 9, a sofa connecting insert rod 9 comprises a disk support frame insert
rod first bending portion 91, a disk support frame insert rod second bending portion 92 and a
disk support frame insert rod third bending portion 93; the disk support frame insert rod first
bending portion 91 and the disk support frame insert rod third bending portion 93 are located
at the two sides of the disk support frame insert rod second bending portion 92; an inclined
angle between the disk support frame insert rod first bending portion 91 and the disk support
frame insert rod second bending portion 92 is 99% 101 and an inclined angle between the disk
support frame insert rod second bending portion 92 and the sofa inserting insert rod third
bending portion 93 is 1000; wherein the disk support frame insert rod first bending portion 91
is configured to be inserted into the connection auxiliary insert round hole 211 (see FIG. 2) .
      The working principle is as follows:
      Referring to Fig. 1 and Fig. 10, when it is desired to fix the inserts 16, the inserts 16 are
first placed at the four inner corners of the sofa frame 1 one by one; and the insert posts 161
for mounting the support legs 11 correspond to the inner corners of the sofa frame 1; the two
fixing plates 162 on each insert 16 are respectively flush with the upper surface and the lower
                                                 10

surface of the sofa frame 1, and the fixing plates 162 and the insert posts 161 are welded to
the sofa frame 1.
      Referring to Fig. 1 and Fig. 10, when it is desired to install a support leg 11, first, the base
auxiliary insert square post 31 is inserted into the insert post 161 of the pre-installed support
leg 11 from the bottom of the sofa frame 1; the base auxiliary insert square post 31 is in
interference fit with the inner wall of the insert post 161. Then, the threaded rod 111 on the
support leg 11 is in threaded connection with the threaded tube 3131 to complete the
installation of the support leg 11. Referring to Figs. 1 and 2, a connection auxiliary insert 2 is
mounted. The two insert posts 161 on both sides of the base auxiliary insert 3 are configured
for insertion of a connection auxiliary insert 2; the connecting auxiliary insert 2 is inserted into
the insert post 161 from the top of the sofa frame 1 (see Fig. 10) until the connection auxiliary
insert square fixture block 221 is supported against the fixing plates 162 to complete the
installation of the connection auxiliary insert 2.
      Referring to Fig. 7 and Fig. 11, when it is desired to connect adjacent sofa frames 1, the
side walls of the adjacent sofa frames 1 are first put other; then, the sofa connecting insert rod
first bend portion 71 and the sofa connecting insert rod third bending portion 73 are
respectively inserted into the insert posts 161 on the adjacent sofa frames 1 so that the two
ends, fit together, of the adjacent sofa frames 1 are fixed together.
      Referring to Fig. 12 and Fig. 13, a backrest frame 12 is installed; the backrest frame 12
and the outer wall of a sofa frame 1 are both covered with a sofa sponge wrapping layer. In
order to highlight the connecting structure, the sofa sponge wrapping layer is not shown in the
figure. The backrest frame 12 has two insertion holes 121. First, the sofa back insert rod fifth
bending portions 55 are respectively inserted into the two insertion holes 121, and then the sofa
back insert rod first bending portion 51 is inserted into the connection auxiliary insert round
hole 211 (see Fig. 2), thus completing the installation of the backrest frame 12.
      Referring to Fig. 12 and Fig. 13, when it is desired to use sofas as a bed, two adjacent sofa
frames 1 are first connected and fixed through a sofa connecting insert rod 7; then, two pillow
frame insert rods 4 are used and pillow frame insert rod second bending portions 42 are
respectively inserted into the two connection auxiliary insert round holes 211 (see Fig. 2) at
one end of each sofa frame 1; and then the two insertion holes 121 in the backrest frame 12
correspond to the pillow frame insert rod first bending portions 41, and the backrest frame 12
                                                   11

is pushed so that the insertion holes 121 hold the pillow frame insert rod first bending portions
41; since the sofa sponge wrapping layer on the backrest frame 12 is higher than the sofa
sponge wrapping layers on the sofa frames 1, so it functions as a pillow.
      Referring to Fig. 14, when it is desired to install a sofa iron case armrest frame 13 on a sofa
frame 1, there are two fixing holes 131 in the sofa iron case armrest frame 13; firstly, the sofa
iron case armrest insert rod first bending portion 61 is inserted into a connection auxiliary insert
round hole 211 (see FIG. 2), and then the two fixing holes 131 on the sofa iron case armrest
frame 13 respectively correspond to the sofa iron case armrest insert rod third bending portions
63, and then the sofa iron case armrest frame 13 is pushed so that the fixing holes 131 hold the
sofa iron case armrest insert rod third bending portions 63, thus completing the installation of
the sofa frame 1.
       Referring to Fig. 15, a tray 14 is mounted. A tray mounting hole 141 is formed in the
  lower surface of the tray 14; firstly, a support frame insert rod third bending portion 83 is
  inserted into the connection auxiliary insert round hole 211; then, the tray mounting hole 141
  of the tray 14 corresponds to the support frame insert rod first bend portion 81 and then holds
  the support frame insert rod first bend portion 81, thus completing the installation of the tray
  14.
      Referring to Fig. 16, a disk 15 is mounted. A disk mounting hole 151 is formed in the
lower surface of the disk 15; firstly, a disk support frame insert rod first bending portion 91 is
inserted into the connection auxiliary insert round hole 211; then, the disk mounting hole 151
of the disk 15 corresponds to the disk support frame insert rod third bend portion 93 and then
holds the disk support frame insert rod third bend portion 93, thus completing the installation
of the disk 15. According to the above combination methods, various sofas, beds or coffee
tables with different areas, suitable for users, can be combined as needed to achieve the effect
of enabling sofas to have more combinations.
                                                  12

                                                CLAIMS
      1. A multifunctional insert assembly for furniture, comprising inserts to be fixed on the
furniture, auxiliary inserts inserted in the inserts and functional insert rods inserted in the
auxiliary inserts, wherein each insert comprises three hollow square tube-shaped insert posts
and fixing plates arranged at the two ends of each of the three insert posts at the same time;
each auxiliary insert is in the form of a hollow columnar structure with round inside and square
outside; and each functional insert rod is a rod formed by bending round steel into a specific
shape.
        2. The multifunctional insert assembly for furniture according to claim 1, wherein the
  functional insert rod is a pillow frame insert rod (4), and the pillow frame insert rod (4)
  comprises a pillow frame insert rod first bending portion (41) and a pillow frame insert rod
  second bending portion (42); and an inclined angle between the pillow frame insert rod first
  bending portion (41) and the pillow frame insert rod second bending portion (42) is 98 0102
  0
        3. The multifunctional insert assembly for furniture according to claim 1, wherein the
  functional insert rod is a sofa back insert rod (5) which is 0-shaped; the sofa back insert rod
  (5) comprises a sofa back insert rod first bending portion (51), a sofa back insert rod second
  bending portion (52), a sofa back insert rod third bending portion (53), a sofa back insert rod
  fourth bending portion (54) and a sofa back insert rod fifth bending portion (55); inclined
  angles between the sofa back insert rod first bending portion (51) and the sofa back insert rod
  second bending portion (52) and between the sofa back insert rod second bending portion
  (52) and the sofa back insert rod third bending portion (53) are 94   0 -98 0;  an inclined angle
  between the sofa back insert rod third bending portion (53) and the sofa back insert rod fourth
  bending portion (54) is 117    0 -120 0; and an inclined angle between the sofa back insert rod
  fourth bending portion (54) and the sofa back insert rod fifth bending portion (55) is 102
  105 0.
      4. The multifunctional insert assembly for furniture according to claim 1, wherein the
functional insert rod is a sofa iron case armrest insert rod (6); the sofa iron case armrest insert
rod (6) comprises a sofa iron case armrest insert rod first bending portion (61), a sofa iron case
armrest insert rod second bending portion (62) and a sofa iron case armrest insert rod third
bending portion (62); the sofa iron case armrest insert rod first bending portion (61) and the
                                                  13

sofa iron case armrest insert rod third bending portion (63) are respectively located on the two
sides of the sofa iron case armrest insert rod second bending portion (62); and inclined angles
between the sofa iron case armrest insert rod first bending portion (61) and the sofa iron case
armrest insert rod second bending portion (62) and between the sofa iron case armrest insert
rod second bending portion (62) and the sofa iron case armrest insert rod third bending portion
(63) are both 90 .
     5. The multifunctional insert assembly for furniture according to claim 1, wherein the
functional insert rod is a sofa connecting insert rod (7); the sofa connecting insert rod (7)
comprises a sofa connecting insert rod first bending portion (71), a sofa connecting insert rod
second bending portion (72) and a sofa connecting insert rod third bending portion (73); the
sofa connecting insert rod first bending portion (71) and the sofa connecting insert rod third
bending portion (73) are located at the same sides of the sofa connecting insert rod second
bending portion; and inclined angles between the sofa connecting insert rod first bending
portion (71) and the sofa connecting insert rod second bending portion (72) and between the
sofa connecting insert rod second bending portion (72) and the sofa connecting insert rod third
bending portion (73) are both 90 .
     6. The multifunctional insert assembly for furniture according to claim 1, wherein the
functional insert rod is a support frame insert rod (8); the support frame insert rod (8)
comprises a support frame insert rod first bending portion (81), a support frame insert rod
second bending portion (82) and a support frame insert rod third bending portion (83); the
support frame insert rod first bending portion (81) and the support frame insert rod third
bending portion (83) are respectively located on two sides of the support frame insert rod
second bending portion 82; an inclined angle between the support frame insert rod first
bending portion (81) and the support frame insert rod second bending portion (82) is 99
 101 and an inclined angle between the support frame insert rod second bending portion (82)
and the sofa inserting insert rod third bending portion (83) is 94'-96'. 7. The multifunctional
insert assembly for furniture according to claim 1, wherein the functional insert rod is a disk
support frame insert rod (9); the disk support frame insert rod (9) comprises a disk support
frame insert rod first bending portion (91), a disk support frame insert rod second bending
portion(92) and a disk support frame insert rod third bending portion (93); the disk support
frame insert rod first bending portion (91) and the disk support frame insert rod third bending
portion (93) are located on the two sides of the disk support frame insert rod second bending
                                                14

portion (92); and an inclined angle between the disk support frame insert rod first bending
portion (91) and the disk support frame insert rod second bending portion (92) is 99 0 -101and
an inclined angle between the disk support frame insert rod second bending portion (92) and
the disk support frame insert rod third bending portion (93) are 1000.
     8. The multifunctional insert assembly for furniture according to claim 1, wherein the
auxiliary insert is an connection auxiliary insert (2); the connection auxiliary insert (2)
comprises a connection auxiliary insert square post (21) and an auxiliary insert bowl (22); a
auxiliary insert round hole (211) is formed inside the auxiliary insert square post (21); the
auxiliary insert bowl (22) is configured as communicated with the auxiliary insert round hole
(211).
     9. The multifunctional insert assembly for furniture according to claim 8, wherein a
connection auxiliary insert square fixture block (221) is arranged between the connection
auxiliary insert square post (21) and the connection auxiliary insert bowl (22); the connection
auxiliary insert square fixture post (21) is cross-connected with the connection auxiliary insert
square fixture block (22).
      10. The multifunctional insert assembly for furniture according to claim 1, wherein the
auxiliary insert is a base auxiliary insert (3), and the base auxiliary insert (3) comprises a base
auxiliary insert square post (31) and a base auxiliary insert clip (32) located at one end of the
base auxiliary insert square post (31); a base auxiliary insert round hole (313) is formed inside
the base auxiliary insert square post (31).
                                                   15

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 1                              1/13

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 2                              2/13

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 3                              3/13

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 5       Fig. 4                 4/13

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 7   Fig. 6                              5/13

                  <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 9   Fig. 8                              6/13

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 10                              7/13

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 11                              8/13

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 12                              9/13

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 13                              10/13

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 14                              11/13

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 15                              12/13

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Fig. 16                              13/13

