                 AN ELECTRICAL PROTECTION DEVICE
ABSTRACT
An electrical protection device 100 for an electrical load 13 having an external conductive
surface in the form of protective metalwork 102. Device 100 includes a pair of input
terminals 2 and 3 for respectively electrically connecting to an active conductor 4 and a
neutral conductor 5 of an electrical power source 6 that is upstream of device 100. A pair
of output terminals 11 and 12 electrically connects to load 13. The load is electrically
downstream of device 100 and, in use, draws a load current. A first monitoring unit 105 is
responsive to the load current flowing in conductors 4 and 5 for selectively generating a
first fault signal. A second monitoring unit 106 selectively generates a second fault signal
in response to current flowing from metalwork 102 to conductor 5. A current limiter
unit 107 is disposed electrically between metalwork 102 and an electrical earth 110.
 Unit 107 is responsive to current flowing from metalwork 102 to earth 110 for selectively
electrically isolating the metalwork from earth 110. A protection unit 112 operates in a
normal state to electrically connect terminals 2 and 3 to terminals 11 and 12 respectively
to allow the load current to flow from source 6 to load 13 via device 1. Unit 112 is
responsive to either of the first fault signal and the second fault signal for operating in a
protected state to electrically isolate terminals 2 and 3 from terminals 11 and 12, and
prevent the flow of the load current.
(Figure 3)

                                         3/6
                                                                              --116
                        120
        15      Single Circuit               117_-        j    Current      "--107
                    125         12|                           Limit Unt|
          10First             Unit H  rtcto "H        econd
   6 4                  105      11      I     3              10610
    6             2              113          13010
Source            3                        0     -124                             Load
                                                   113
            5              115        Figure 3                                  1F
                                     110
                                                                                116
                        120                                        :
      125       Single Circuit               117_      _j      Current    L  -107
                                     112Limit                       Unit|
          10First             Unit H  rtcto "H        econd
   6 4                  105 J                               -10610
                                 113          130                     11       102
    62
Source            3                                                   12          Load
                                                      :t                          L
            5              115        Fig ure 4                                 1

                                                    1
                 AN ELECTRICAL PROTECTION DEVICE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]      The present invention relates to an electrical protection device and to an
electrical protection system including such a device.
[0002]       Embodiments of the invention have been particularly developed for use in a low
voltage electrical power distribution system (EDS) and in particular to mains voltage
applications in residences, commercial premises and industrial sites. While some
embodiments will be described herein with particular reference to those applications, it will
be appreciated that the invention is not limited to such a field of use, and is applicable in
broader contexts.
BACKGROUND
[0003]      Any discussion of the background art throughout the specification should in no
way be considered as an admission that such art is widely known or forms part of
common general knowledge in the field.
[0004]       EDSs come in many varied forms around the world. In Australia, for example,
solid earthed environments are the norm (such as a TN-C-S arrangement). Alternatively,
in certain applications and parts of the world, a fully isolated grounding system is
preferred. This latter type of grounding system is referred to as an IT system and can
support a single fault between the power conductors and ground without any immediate
threat of injury or loss of service. A second fault must therefore occur before damage or
risk to life occurs.
[0005]       In other parts of the world like Japan use is made of a different system, referred
to as a TT system. This is an arrangement where the earth paths for fault currents use
actual earth grounds for conducting fault currents. These earth grounds can vary in
impedance throughout their life from highly conducting to almost insulating. As a result
this arrangement is partially or insecurely grounded.
[0006]       Regardless of the type of EDS all require electrical protection between the
power source and the load. Moreover, an EDS includes at least two conductors for
allowing the load to draw load current from the source. Two essential conductors are
usually referred to as the active conductor (or simply "active") and the neutral conductor
(or simply "neutral") and these respectively provide for the flow of the load current from the
source to the load, and for a return current from the load to the source. Both those

                                                   2
currents will also flow through the electrical protection which is interposed between the
source and the load.
[0007]     In a typical conventional mains voltage installation in an earthed EDS the
electrical protection is often provided by a residual-current device (known as an RCD).
This technology was developed from the middle to the end of the last century as a method
for providing secondary protection for an EDS. This form of protection is based upon a
measurement of the difference between the input or load current (that is, the current
flowing in the active conductor) and the return current (that is, the current flowing in the
neutral conductor). It is usual for an electrical load (for example, an electrical circuit or
electrical equipment) that is to be connected to the EDS to have protective metalwork
typically a protective housing. In an earthed EDS such as a TN-C-S system, the protective
housing is connected to a separate electrical earth. That earth is also referenced to the
power source. If a fault occurs in the electrical circuit or load which allows a fault current to
flow through the metalwork to earth, this fault current will not return through the RCD and
will be detected as an imbalance in RCD load and return currents. Once this imbalance
exceeds a threshold the RCD instigates protective action.
[0008]     The RCD protection has become ubiquitous in many countries as the dominant
form of secondary safety protection. Even so, there are power distribution system
arrangements and scenarios where current imbalance between active and neutral is a
poor safety indicator. These include: isolated or high impedance earth power systems
where little or no current flows until a second fault occurs (thus exposing users to
unnecessary risk of harm); power generation faults where equal fault current flows in both
the active and neutral conductors; and arrangements where faults currents vector to
cancel at the point of the RCD even though at the fault site considerable fault current is
flowing.
[0009]     To effectively operate the RCD must be used in an earthed system. However,
not all EDSs are earthed and, as such, other protection system have been developed for
use in these non-earthed EDSs. For example, a separate protection technology - referred
to as "the iFS technology" - was developed in the last two decades and has been
disclosed in international patent application PCT/AU2009/001679 and international patent
application PCT/AU2009/001678, the content of both of which is incorporated herein by
way of cross reference. In summary this iFS technology operates by monitoring the
protective metalwork of an electrical loads directly by sensing any fault current which flows
from the metalwork to a reference conductor. Any current flow is typically caused by an
elevation of mains potential of the metalwork as a result of a fault in the electrical

                                                    3
insulation between the load and the protective metalwork. If the fault current from the load
to the metalwork reaches a threshold level the iFS technology will institute a protective
action.
[0010]      As referred to above, the RCD technology only provides effective protection in
properly earthed       environments (power distribution        systems with     effective earth
arrangements like TN-C-S systems - as are common place in Australia). It relies on the
electrical continuity of the earthing arrangements to permit sufficient current flow during a
fault to cause a measurable current unbalance at the RCD. The iFS technology, by
comparison, does not depend on effective electrical earthing arrangements and any
failure of insulation will cause a protection response. However, the iFS technology is
defeated and/or desensitized in a well-earthed environment where the potential of the
electrical metalwork is not significantly affected by the fault and therefore significant
current will not flow through the reference conductor to cause a protective response.
[0011]      All the existing systems have limitations and there is always a need in the art for
an improved electrical protection device to improve safety and reduce damage caused to
property from electrical malfunction.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0012]      It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of
the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
[0013]      It is an object of at least one of the embodiments to provide an improved
electrical protection device to contribute to greater public safety and to reduce damage
caused to property from electrical malfunction.
[0014]      According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided an electrical
protection device for an electrical load having an external conductive surface, the device
including:
         at least two input terminals for electrically connecting to an active conductor and a
         neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the protection
         device;
         at least two output terminals for electrically connecting to the load, wherein the
         load is electrically downstream of the protection device and, in use, draws a load
         current;
         a first monitoring unit that is responsive to the load current flowing in the active
         conductor and the neutral conductor upstream of the protection device and

                                                    4
         adjacent the at least two input terminals for selectively generating a first fault
         signal;
         a second monitoring unit for selectively generating a second fault signal in
         response to current flowing from the surface to a pair of reference lines
         respectively electrically connected to the active and neutral conductors located
         adjacent the at least two output terminals; and
         a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the input
         terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the source to
         the load via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to either of
         the first fault signal and the second fault signal for operating in a protected state to
         electrically isolate the input terminals from the output terminals and prevent the
         flow of the load current.
[0015]       In an embodiment the conductive surface is protective metalwork.
[0016]       In an embodiment the protective metalwork defines an external housing for the
load.
[0017]       In an embodiment the first monitoring unit is responsive to an imbalance in the
load current flowing in the active and the neutral conductors for selectively generating the
first fault signal.
[0018]       In an embodiment the first monitoring unit generates the first fault signal in
response to the current imbalance exceeding a first predetermined threshold.
[0019]       In an embodiment the second monitoring unit generates the second fault signal
in response to the current flowing from the surface to the neutral conductor.
[0020]       In an embodiment the second monitoring unit generates the second fault signal
in response to the current flowing from the surface to the neutral conductor exceeding a
second predetermined threshold.
[0021]       In an embodiment the second monitoring unit generates the second fault signal
in response to the current flowing from the surface to an earth.
[0022]       In an embodiment the second monitoring unit generates the second fault signal
in response to the current flowing from the surface to the earth exceeding a third
predetermined threshold.
[0023]       In an embodiment the second monitoring unit generates the second fault signal
in response to the voltage between the surface and the neutral conductor.

                                                   5
[0024]      In an embodiment the second monitoring unit generates the second fault signal
in response to the voltage between the surface and the neutral conductor exceeding a
fourth predetermined threshold.
[0025]      In an embodiment the second monitoring unit generates the second fault signal
in response to the voltage between the surface and the earth.
[0026]      In an embodiment the second monitoring unit generates the second fault signal
in response to the voltage between the surface and the earth exceeding a fifth
predetermined threshold.
[0027]      In an embodiment the electrical protection device includes a current limiter unit
between the surface and an electrical earth, the current limiter unit being responsive to
current flowing from the surface to the earth for selectively electrically isolating the surface
from the earth. That is, the current limiter circuit prevents the flow of current from the
surface to the earth.
[0028]      In an embodiment, the protection unit is responsive to the current flowing from
the surface to the earth for for operating in a protected state to electrically isolate the input
terminals from the output terminals and prevent the flow of the load current.
[0029]      In an embodiment the first monitoring unit includes a first electrical circuit and
the second monitoring unit includes a second electrical circuit having at least one
electrical component in common with the first electrical circuit.
[0030]      In an embodiment the first electrical circuit and the second electrical circuit have
multiple electrical components in common.
[0031]      In an embodiment the at least one electrical component is a processor.
[0032]      In an embodiment the at least one electrical component is a pair of mirrored
processors.
[0033]      In an embodiment the first monitoring unit and the second monitoring unit are
defined by a single electrical circuit.
[0034]      In an embodiment two or more of the first monitoring unit, the second monitoring
unit, and the protection unit are defined by a single electrical circuit.
[0035]      In an embodiment two or more of the first monitoring unit, the second monitoring
unit, the current limiter unit, and the protection unit are defined by a single electrical
circuit.
[0036]      In an embodiment the single electrical circuit is contained within a single
housing.

                                                  6
[0037]     In an embodiment the single electrical circuit is mounted to a single circuit
board.
[0038]     In an embodiment the electrical protection device includes a plurality of
electrical components, wherein substantially all the components are solid state
components.
[0039]     In an embodiment the electrical protection device includes a plurality of
electrical components, wherein all of the electrical components are solid state
components.
[0040]     In an embodiment the solid state components are included in one or more
integrated circuits.
[0041]     In an embodiment the solid state components are included in a single integrated
circuit.
[0042]     In an embodiment at least one of the solid state components is formed using
one of: Si technology; GaN technology; SiC technology; and MEMS technology.
[0043]     In an embodiment the at least one solid state component is selected from: a
transformer; and a mains voltage switching device.
[0044]     In an embodiment the electrical protection device includes one or more
processor.
[0045]     In an embodiment the one or more processor includes one or more
microprocessor.
[0046]     In an embodiment the processor allows for testing of one or more functions of
the device.
[0047]     In an embodiment the testing is initiated by the processor.
[0048]     In an embodiment the testing is initiated externally from the device.
[0049]     In an embodiment the electrical protection device includes an alarm for
indicating one or more states of the device.
[0050]     In an embodiment the alarm indicates if one or more of the fault signals have
been generated.
[0051]     In an embodiment the alarm is one or more of: electrical; visual; and audible.
[0052]     In an embodiment the electrical protection device includes a communications
interface for allowing communication with a remote device.
[0053]     In an embodiment the remote device is a controller and the protection device is
a slave to that controller.

                                                    7
[0054]     According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided an electrical
protection device for an electrical load having an external conductive surface, the device
including:
        at least two input terminals for electrically connecting to an active conductor and a
        neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the protection
        device;
        at least two output terminals for electrically connecting to the load, wherein the
        load is electrically downstream of the protection device and, in use, draws a load
        current;
        at least one of:
        i) a first monitoring unit that is responsive to the load current flowing in the active
            conductor and the neutral conductor for selectively generating a first fault
            signal; and
        ii) a second monitoring unit for selectively generating a second fault signal in
            response to either or both of: current flowing from the surface to the neutral
            conductor; and the voltage between the surface and the neutral conductor; and
        a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the input
        terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the source to
        the load via the protection device, the protection unit having at least one processor
        and being responsive to the fault signals for operating in a protected state to
        electrically isolate the input terminals from the output terminals and prevent the
        flow of the load current.
[0055]     In an embodiment the protection device includes a current limiter unit between
the surface and an electrical earth, the current limiter unit being responsive to current
flowing from the surface to the earth for selectively electrically isolating the surface from
the earth.
[0056]     According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided an electrical
protection device for an electrical load having an external conductive surface, the device
including:
        at least two input terminals for electrically connecting to an active conductor and a
        neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the protection
        device;

                                                    8
        at least two output terminals for electrically connecting to the load, wherein the
        load is electrically downstream of the protection device and, in use, draws a load
        current;
        a first monitoring unit having a first electrical circuit that is responsive to the load
        current flowing in the active conductor and the neutral conductor for selectively
        generating a first fault signal;
        a second monitoring unit having a second electrical circuit for selectively
        generating a second fault signal in response to either or both of: current flowing
        from the surface to the neutral conductor; and the voltage between the surface and
        the neutral conductor; and
        a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the input
        terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the source to
        the load via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to either of
        the first fault signal and the second fault signal for operating in a protected state to
        electrically isolate the input terminals from the output terminals and prevent the
        flow of the load current, wherein the first electrical circuit and the second electrical
        circuit include at least one common electrical component.
[0057]     In an embodiment the first electrical circuit and the second electrical circuit
include multiple common electrical components.
[0058]     In an embodiment the at least one common electrical device includes a
processor.
[0059]     In an embodiment the first electrical circuit and the second electrical circuit
include a common circuit board.
[0060]     In an embodiment the protection device includes a current limiter unit between
the surface and an electrical earth, the current limiter unit being responsive to current
flowing from the surface to the earth for selectively electrically isolating the surface from
the earth.
[0061]     According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided an electrical
protection device for an electrical load having an external conductive surface, the device
including:
        at least two input terminals for electrically connecting to an active conductor and a
        neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the protection
        device;

                                                     9
         at least two output terminals for electrically connecting to the load, wherein the
         load is electrically downstream of the protection device and, in use, draws a load
         current;
         a first monitoring unit for selectively generating a first fault signal;
         a current limiter unit between the surface and an electrical earth, the current limiter
         unit being responsive to current flowing from the surface to the earth for selectively
         electrically isolating the surface from the earth; and
         a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the input
         terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the source to
         the load via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to the first
         fault signal for operating in a protected state to electrically isolate the input
         terminals from the output terminals and prevent the flow of the load current.
[0062]      In an embodiment the first monitoring unit is responsive to the load current
flowing in the active conductor and the neutral conductor for selectively generating the first
fault signal.
[0063]      In an embodiment the protection device includes a second monitoring unit for
selectively generating a second fault signal, wherein: the protection unit is responsive to
the second fault signal for operating in a protected state to electrically isolate the input
terminals from the output terminals and prevent the flow of the load current; and the
second fault signal is generated in response to either or both of: current flowing from the
surface to the neutral conductor; and the voltage between the surface and the neutral
conductor.
[0064]      According to a fifth aspect of the invention there is provided an electrical
protection device including:
         at least two input terminals for electrically connecting to an active conductor and a
         neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the protection
         device;
         at least two output terminals for electrically connecting to a load that is
         downstream of the protection device;
         a monitoring unit that is responsive to current flowing through at least one of the
         input terminals and/or at least one of the output terminals for selectively generating
         a first fault signal;

                                                   10
        a current limiter that is responsive to the first fault signal for limiting to a
        predetermined current threshold a current flowing from the source to the load or
        from the load to an earth;
        a protection unit for operating in a normal state to connect the input terminals to
        the output terminals to allow current to flow from the source to the load via the
        protection device, the protection unit being responsive to a second fault signal for
        operating in a protected state to disconnect the input terminals from the output
        terminals and prevent the flow;
        a fault detection unit that is responsive to at least a current imbalance between the
        active conductor and the neutral conductor for selectively generating the second
        fault signal; and
        a downstream detection unit that is responsive to a current downstream of the
        device for selectively generating the second fault signal.
[0065]     In an embodiment the first fault signal will be generated before the second fault
signal.
[0066]     In an embodiment the monitoring unit includes a microprocessor.
[0067]     In an embodiment the load includes a chassis.
[0068]     In an embodiment the current imbalance between the active conductor and the
neutral conductor is less than about 30 mA.
[0069]     In an embodiment the current imbalance between the active conductor and the
neutral conductor is less than about 20 mA.
[0070]     In an embodiment the current imbalance between the active conductor and the
neutral conductor is less than about 10 mA.
[0071]     In an embodiment the device will sense a current imbalance, generate a fault
signal and limit the current in less than about 10 ms.
[0072]     In an embodiment the device will sense a current imbalance, generate a fault
signal and limit the current in less than about 8 ms.
[0073]     In an embodiment the device will sense a current imbalance, generate a fault
signal and disconnect the input terminals from the output terminals in less than about
10 Ms.
[0074]     In an embodiment the device will sense a current imbalance, generate a fault
signal and disconnect the input terminals from the output terminals in less than about
8 ms.
[0075]     In an embodiment the predetermined current threshold is about 5 mA.

                                                    11
[0076]     In an embodiment the predetermined current threshold is about 8 mA.
[0077]     In an embodiment the predetermined current threshold is about 10 mA.
[0078]     According to a sixth aspect of the invention there is provided an electrical
protection device for an electrical load having an external conductive surface, the device
including:
        at least two input terminals for electrically connecting to an active conductor and a
        neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the protection
        device;
        at least two output terminals for electrically connecting to the load, wherein the
        load is electrically downstream of the protection device and, in use, draws a load
        current;
        a first monitoring unit that is responsive to the load current flowing in the active
        conductor and the neutral conductor for selectively generating a first fault signal;
        a second monitoring unit for selectively generating a second fault signal in
        response to both of: current flowing from the surface; and the voltage between the
        surface and the neutral conductor and/or the earth; and
        a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the input
        terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the source to
        the load via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to either of
        the first fault signal and the second fault signal for operating in a protected state to
        electrically isolate the input terminals from the output terminals and prevent the
        flow of the load current.
[0079]     According to a seventh aspect of the invention there is provided an electrical
protection system including one or more of electrical protection devices defined in any one
or more of the preceding aspects of the invention described above.
[0080]     According to an eighth aspect of the invention there is provided an electrical
distribution system including one or more of electrical protection devices defined in any
one or more of the first to the sixth aspects described above.
[0081]     According to a ninth aspect of the invention there is provided a method for
providing electrical protection for an electrical load having an external conductive surface,
the method including:
        electrically connecting at least two input terminals to an active conductor and a
        neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the terminals;

                                                    12
        electrically connecting at least two output terminals to the load, wherein the load is
        electrically downstream of the output terminals and, in use, draws a load current;
        being responsive to the load current flowing in the active conductor and the neutral
        conductor for selectively generating a first fault signal;
        selectively generating a second fault signal in response to either or both of: current
        flowing from the surface; and the voltage between the surface and the neutral
        conductor and/or the earth; and
        providing a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the
        input terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the
        source to the load via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to
        either of the first fault signal and the second fault signal for operating in a protected
        state to electrically isolate the input terminals from the output terminals and
        prevent the flow of the load current.
[0082]     According to a tenth aspect of the invention there is provided a method for
providing electrical protection for an electrical load having an external conductive surface,
the method including:
        electrically connecting at least two input terminals to an active conductor and a
        neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the terminals;
        electrically connecting at least two output terminals to the load, wherein the load is
        electrically downstream of the output terminals and, in use, draws a load current;
        providing at least one of:
        i) a first monitoring unit that is responsive to the load current flowing in the active
            conductor and the neutral conductor for selectively generating a first fault
            signal; and
        ii) a second monitoring unit for selectively generating a second fault signal in
            response to either or both of: current flowing from the surface to the neutral
            conductor; and the voltage between the surface and the neutral conductor; and
        providing a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the
        input terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the
        source to the load via the protection device, the protection unit having at least one
        processor and being responsive to the fault signals for operating in a protected
        state to electrically isolate the input terminals from the output terminals and
        prevent the flow of the load current.

                                                    13
[0083]     According to a eleventh aspect of the invention there is provided a method of
providing electrical protection for an electrical load having an external conductive surface,
the method including:
        electrically connecting at least two input terminals to an active conductor and a
        neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the terminals;
        electrically connecting at least two output terminals to the load, wherein the load is
        electrically downstream of the output terminals and, in use, draws a load current;
        providing a first monitoring unit having a first electrical circuit that is responsive to
        the load current flowing in the active conductor and the neutral conductor for
        selectively generating a first fault signal;
        providing a second monitoring unit having a second electrical circuit for selectively
        generating a second fault signal in response to either or both of: current flowing
        from the surface to the neutral conductor; and the voltage between the surface and
        the neutral conductor; and
        providing a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the
        input terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the
        source to the load via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to
        either of the first fault signal and the second fault signal for operating in a protected
        state to electrically isolate the input terminals from the output terminals and
        prevent the flow of the load current, wherein the first electrical circuit and the
        second electrical circuit include at least one common electrical component.
[0084]     According to a twelfth aspect of the invention there is provided a method for
providing electrical protection for an electrical load having an external conductive surface,
the method including:
        electrically connecting at least two input terminals to an active conductor and a
        neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the terminals;
        electrically connecting at least two output terminals to the load, wherein the load is
        electrically downstream of the output terminals and, in use, draws a load current;
        selectively generating a first fault signal;
        providing a current limiter unit between the surface and an electrical earth, the
        current limiter unit being responsive to current flowing from the surface to the earth
        for selectively electrically isolating the surface from the earth; and
        providing a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the
        input terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the

                                                    14
        source to the load via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to
        the first fault signal for operating in a protected state to electrically isolate the input
        terminals from the output terminals and prevent the flow of the load current.
[0085]     According to a thirteenth aspect of the invention there is provided a method for
providing electrical protection, the method including:
        electrically connecting at least two input terminals to an active conductor and a
        neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the terminals;
        electrically connecting at least two output terminals to a load that is downstream of
        the output terminals;
        being responsive to current flowing through at least one of the input terminals
        and/or at least one of the output terminals for selectively generating a first fault
        signal;
        being responsive to the first fault signal for limiting to a predetermined current
        threshold a current flowing from the source to the load or from the load to an earth;
        providing a protection unit for operating in a normal state to connect the input
        terminals to the output terminals to allow current to flow from the source to the load
        via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to a second fault
        signal for operating in a protected state to disconnect the input terminals from the
        output terminals and prevent the flow;
        being responsive to at least a current imbalance between the active conductor and
        the neutral conductor for selectively generating the second fault signal; and
        being responsive to a current downstream of the output terminals for selectively
        generating the second fault signal.
[0086]     According to a fourteenth aspect of the invention there is provided a method of
providing electrical protection for an electrical load having an external conductive surface,
the method including:
        electrically connecting at least two input terminals to an active conductor and a
        neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the terminals;
        electrically connecting at least two output terminals to the load, wherein the load is
        electrically downstream of the output terminals and, in use, draws a load current;
        being responsive to the load current flowing in the active conductor and the neutral
        conductor for selectively generating a first fault signal;

                                                    15
        selectively generating a second fault signal in response to both of: current flowing
        from the surface; and the voltage between the surface and the neutral conductor
        and/or the earth; and
        providing a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the
        input terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the
        source to the load via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to
        either of the first fault signal and the second fault signal for operating in a protected
        state to electrically isolate the input terminals from the output terminals and
        prevent the flow of the load current.
[0087]     According to a fifteenth aspect of the invention there is provided a method of
providing electrical protection, the method including: selecting one or more of electrical
protection devices defined in any one or more of the preceding aspects of the invention
described above; disposing the electrical protection devices electrically between an
electrical source and at least one electrical load.
[0088]     According to a sixteenth aspect of the invention there is provided an electrical
protection device for an electrical load having an external conductive surface, the device
including:
        at least two input terminals for electrically connecting to an active conductor and a
        neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the protection
        device;
        at least two output terminals for electrically connecting to the load, wherein the
        load is electrically downstream of the protection device and, in use, draws a load
        current;
        a first monitoring unit that is responsive to the load current flowing in the active
        conductor and the neutral conductor for selectively generating a first fault signal;
        a second monitoring unit for selectively generating a second fault signal in
        response to either or both of: current flowing from the surface; and the voltage
        between the surface and the neutral conductor and/or an earth; and
        a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the input
        terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the source to
        the load via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to the fault
        signals for operating in a protected state to electrically isolate the input terminals
        from the output terminals and prevent the flow of the load current, wherein the
        protection unit and one or more of the first monitoring unit and the second
        monitoring unit are integrated.

                                                    16
[0089]       In an embodiment the protection unit and both of the first monitoring unit and the
second monitoring unit are integrated.
[0090]       According to a seventeenth aspect of the invention there is provided a method
of providing electrical protection for an electrical load having an external conductive
surface, the method including:
          electrically connecting at least two input terminals to an active conductor and a
          neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the terminals;
          electrically connecting at least two output terminals to the load, wherein the load is
          electrically downstream of the output terminals and, in use, draws a load current;
          being responsive with a first monitoring unit to the load current flowing in the active
          conductor and the neutral conductor for selectively generating a first fault signal;
          selectively generating with a second monitoring unit a second fault signal in
          response to either or both of: current flowing from the surface; and the voltage
          between the surface and the neutral conductor and/or an earth; and
          providing a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the
          input terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the
          source to the load via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to
          the fault signals for operating in a protected state to electrically isolate the input
          terminals from the output terminals and prevent the flow of the load current,
          wherein the protection unit and one or more of the first monitoring unit and the
          second monitoring unit are integrated.
[0091]       Reference     throughout    this   specification  to   "one embodiment",         "some
embodiments" or "an embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or
characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one
embodiment of the present invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one
embodiment", "in some embodiments" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout
this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment, but may.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner, as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this
disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
[0092]       As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives
"first", "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different
instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the
objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking,
or in any other manner.

                                                    17
[0093]     In the claims below and the description herein, any one of the terms
"comprising", "comprised of" or "which comprises" is an open term that means "including
at least the elements/features that follow, but not excluding others". Thus, the term
"comprising", when used in the claims, should not be interpreted as being limitative to the
means or elements or steps listed thereafter. For example, the scope of the expression "a
device comprising A and B" should not be limited to devices consisting only of elements A
and B. Any one of the terms "including" or "which includes" or "that includes" as used
herein is also an open term that also means "including at least the elements/features that
follow the term, but not excluding others". Thus, "including" is synonymous with and
means "comprising".
[0094]     As used herein, the term "exemplary" is used in the sense of providing
examples, as opposed to indicating quality. That is, an "exemplary embodiment" is an
embodiment provided as an example, as opposed to necessarily being an embodiment of
exemplary quality.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0095]     Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example only,
with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
            Figure 1 is a schematic representation of an electrical protection device
            according to one embodiment, shown in the protected state;
            Figure 2 is a schematic representation of the device of Figure 1 in normal state;
            Figure 3 is schematic representation of a protection device according to another
            embodiment illustrating the load being electrically isolated from the source;
            Figure 4 is a schematic representation of the device of Figure 3 illustrating the
            load being electrically connected to the source;
            Figure 5 is circuit diagram for the electrical components included within the
            protection device of Figure 3 with bounded areas to illustrate the shared
           components;
            Figure 6 is the circuit diagram of Figure 5 omitting the bounded areas; and
            Figure 7 is a flowchart illustrating the operation of the device of Figure 3.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0096]     Referring to Figure 1, there is shown a first embodiment, which includes an
electrical protection device 1. Device 1 is referred to by the applicant as a Super Residual

                                                    18
Current Device (Super RCD). Device 1 includes two input terminals 2 and 3 for
respectively electrically connecting to an active conductor 4 and a neutral conductor 5 of
an electrical power source 6 that is upstream of device 1. Also included in device 1 are
two output terminals 11 and 12 for electrically connecting to a load 13 that is downstream
of device 1.
[0097]      A monitoring unit in the form of a microprocessor 20 is responsive to current
flowing through input terminal 2 and output terminal 11 for selectively generating a first
fault signal. In other embodiments, microprocessor 20 is responsive to current flowing
through     input   terminal 3 and    output     terminal 12. In yet other embodiments,
microprocessor 20 is responsive to current flowing through input terminal 2 and output
terminal 12. In yet other embodiments, microprocessor 20 is responsive to current flowing
through input terminal 3 and output terminal 11.
[0098]      Device 1 includes a current limiter 30 that is responsive to the first fault signal
for limiting current flow from source 6 to the load 13 to a predetermined current threshold.
A protection unit 40 for operating in a normal state (shown in Figure 2) connects input
terminals 2 and 3 to output terminals 11 and 12 to allow current to flow from source 6 to
load 13 via device 1. Protection unit 40 is responsive to a second fault signal for operating
in a protected state (shown in Figure 1) to disconnect input terminals 2 and 3 from output
terminals 11 and 12 via a relay 41 and prevent the current flow.
[0099]      Also included in device 1 is a fault detection unit 50 that is responsive to at least
a current imbalance between active conductor 4 and neutral conductor 5 for selectively
generating the second fault signal. This functionality that is provided in part by unit 50 is
referred to as the RCD functionality.
[00100]     Furthermore, device 1 includes a downstream detection unit 55 that is
responsive to a current downstream of device 1 for selectively generating the second fault
signal.
[00101]     The predetermined current threshold from which the first fault signal is
responsive, is about 5 mA. In another embodiment, the predetermined current threshold is
about 8 mA. In yet another embodiment, the predetermined current threshold is about
10 mA.
[00102]     Load 13 includes a chassis (not shown), which essentially denotes a
component on the load which a user can come into contact and possibly be electrocuted
by this contact. The chassis, in various embodiments, includes: a frame, housing, and
support, to name but a few. The chassis is also referred to as the protective metalwork for
the load and is used by device 1 (not shown in Figures 1 and 2) as a reference point for a

                                                     19
voltage and/or a current measurement between the chassis and one or more of
conductors 2 and 3 and/or to an earth point. This occurs to allow the implementation of
iFS-style functionality (simply referred in this specification as "iFS functionality") as well as
earth isolation functionality. These two functionalities are provided for in the circuit
illustrated in Figure 5, and is described in more detail below with reference to the
embodiment of Figures 3 and 4.
[00103]     Generally, the first fault signal will be generated before the second fault signal.
Accordingly, in the event of a fault, the limiting of the current will occur before the
disconnection of the source from the load. This will allow for the load to continue to be
powered, when it is safe to do so.
[00104]     In other embodiments, the second fault signal occurs before the first fault signal.
This embodiment utilizes the current limiter as a back-up safety mechanism. In the event
of malfunction of the device where a second fault signal is generated but fault detection
unit 50 and downstream detection unit 55 do not electrically disconnect the source from
the load, the first fault signal will be generated and the current limiter will limit the current.
[00105]     In yet other embodiments, the first fault signal and the second fault signal are
generated independently of one another and, therefore, will not be generated in a
consistent order.
[00106]     The current imbalance between the active conductor and the neutral conductor
that will cause a second fault signal to be generated is about 30 mA. In more preferable
embodiments, the current imbalance between conductor 4 and conductor 5 is less than
about 30 mA. More preferably, the current imbalance between conductor 4 and
conductor 5 is less than about 20 mA. Even more preferably, the current imbalance
between conductor 4 and 5 is less than about 10 mA.
[00107]     Microprocessor 20 is responsive to an imbalance in upstream current flowing
through terminal 2 and downstream current flowing though terminal 11. The current
imbalance between the upstream current and the downstream current that will cause the
first fault signal to be generated is less than about 30 mA. More preferably, the current
imbalance between the upstream current and the downstream current is less than about
20 mA to cause the generation of the first fault signal. Even more preferably, the current
imbalance between the upstream current and the downstream current is less than about
10 mA.
[00108]     Device 1 is configured to sense a current above a predetermined threshold in
either of the upstream and downstream currents, and to generate the first fault signal and

                                                   20
limit the current to that threshold in less than about 10 ms. More preferably, device 1 will
carry out this sequence of actions to limit the current in less than about 8 ms.
[00109]    Device 1 is also configured to sense a current imbalance (either between
conductor 4 and 5 or downstream of device 1), generate the second fault signal and
disconnect input terminals 2 and 3 from the output terminals 11 and 12 in less than about
10 ms. More preferably, device 1 will carry out this sequence of actions to disconnect
input terminals 2 and 3 from the output terminals 11 and 12 in less than about 8 ms.
[00110]    The Super RCD, in embodiments, is also capable of monitoring more than two
points of reference at once and can monitor multiple points simultaneously. For example,
the active, neutral and earth conductors from a number of power sources can be
monitored by the same Super RCD simultaneously along with monitoring a number of
loads at different reference points. This provides the Super RCD with additional
information which is used to provide status information about the electrical environment
and the various components. The Super RCD will use this information to note situations of
danger as well as to generally provide intelligence on the operation of the environment.
This can assist in the optimal electrical powering of a load or number of loads from one or
more power sources.
[00111]    To better illustrate the iFS functionality and other functionality reference is now
made to a further embodiment of the Super RCD that is illustrated in Figures 3 to 6. The
major objectives of the design of this further embodiment were as follows:
        *  Add an improved RCD function to the "iFS" isolation design technology where
           there may be earthed systems present.
        *  Provide safety and supply continuity where nominally earthed systems develop
           a high Earth resistance to Neutral.
        *  Utilize the iFS style of current limiting capability (under 10 mA) to further
           enhance personnel safety and equipment protection.
        *  Provide Earth Current measurement to further understand origin and direction
           of leakage currents so that the most comprehensive and safe. Power removal
           or current limiting action can be taken.
        *  Provide as fail safe a system as possible by automatically and regularly testing
           all functions, by providing circuit redundancy and avoiding microprocessor
           involvement in critical "turn off" or "current limiting" decisions.
        *  Meet high volume cost objectives by using the most appropriate components,
           design and manufacturing processes.

                                                   21
[00112]    All of the above features are, or are also able to be, implemented in different
embodiments of device 1.
[00113]    The broad principles of the functions of the preferred embodiments, and
particularly of this further embodiment are:
       *   The iFS function of operation and current limiting are maintained giving a fast
            5 mA triggering sensitivity and under 10 mA current limiting to the chassis of the
            equipment being protected. Minor improvements have been made to the
           triggering sensitivity calibration and circuitry to improve consistency and reduce
           cost.
       *   The RCD function uses a classical torroid load Active and Neutral differential
           current sensing with accurate amplification and triggering using an operational
            amplifier. A standard torroid has been chosen for this component in this
            embodiment. The RCD function is set at 30 mA typically, although that will
           depend on the MCB rating chosen.
       *   The Earth Current measurement function is initially established using a high
            current transistor switch that is "normally on" to give a low earth to chassis
            resistance in the normally operating mode. This high current switch will be
           turned "off' when the earth current reaches a yet to be decided level and the
            MCB power will be turned "off' when the earth current reaches 30 mA. When
           the transistor switch turns "off" the Super RCD becomes a current limiting iFS
           triggering at 5 mA and limiting the current during and after triggering.
       *   The Earth current measurement uses a similar torroid to the RCD torriod and a
            similar amplification and triggering circuitry. The MCB triggering current is
            30 mA and it has the addition of an optional automatic lower level "switching off"
            of the transistor earthing switch to current limiting.
       *   The microprocessors monitor both the RCD Differential Current and the Earth
            Current which will match for a simple leakage of the machine to earth (or an
            operator receiving an electric shock between the machine active and the
            machine chassis). When the currents do not match due to machine "active"
            leakage (or more likely an electric shock) to a different chassis (low earth
           current), between a different chassis and the machine earth (low RCD current)
            or due to earth currents creating electric shocks, the microprocessors initiate
            early "power removal" or early transistor "switch to current limit" decisions to
            protect    operators    and    reduce    equipment     damage.    Note   that  the
            microprocessors are operating in a "fail safe" manner toward an early power

                                                   22
            removal or current limit rather than waiting until the "machine set" limits are
            reached.
        *  All of the above measurement and MCB triggering systems are intended to be
            much faster than standard that provided by a conventional RCDs with the
            additional benefit of ruggedness relating to transients in the systems being
            measured.
[00114]    The broad testing regime of the iFS functionality has resulted in the use of two
triacs, microprocessors and circuitry sets, one "set" for each half cycle.
[00115]    There is only one op-amp for each of the RCDs, Earth to Neutral current and
Earth Resistance measurements but there is already duplication between RCD, Earth
Current and "switched to IFS" functions that are able to be exploited prior to system shut
down when a fault possibility has been discovered. Due to the increased "demand" on the
microprocessors for testing and monitoring lower power microprocessors have been
selected with more pin outs.
[00116]    For the iFS function, testing functionality has been retained.
[00117]    The RCD function is tested by running a transient 30 mA current through the iFS
torroid near zero cross and observing triac triggering for each half cycle.
[00118]    The Earth Current triggering is similarly measured by applying a 30 mA current
pulse in the earth current torroid and observing the triacs triggering the MCB.
[00119]    The earth to neutral resistance monitor is tested for each half cycle to confirm
the earth "switch to current limit" function is working as well as confirming the earth
resistance monitoring and switching to iFS is within specifications.
[00120]    The design of the further embodiment has many features both in performance
and safety that provide a new benchmark in safety switching. In addition there is the
potential and flexibility within the design for further enhancement on the performance side
to accommodate specific industry needs without compromising safety switching
protection.
[00121]    The preferred embodiments provide a safety switch that includes the benefits of
RCD technology in the presence of earthed systems and yet provides the speed and
chassis (earth pin) current limiting of an iFS safety switch for improved safety and
equipment protection.
[00122]    The basic function of the Super RCD is based around three measurement and
triggering functions:

                                                  23
        *  Differential current measurement (RCD type) with Circuit Breaker turn off set to
           30 mA.
        *  Chassis to Earth current measurement with Circuit Breaker turn off set to 30 mA
           and Chassis to Neutral Switch, Current Limit and Circuit Breaker turn off set to
           10 mA.
[00123]    Dual measurement and circuit breaker triggering components provide redundant
circuitry while dual microprocessors provide self monitoring and self testing functions with
automatic circuit breaker triggering should a fault exist. Should the circuit breaker weld
shut the current limit capability will allow an operator to "let go" of the wires or chassis that
is causing an electric shock.
[00124]    Some performance and safety features of the Super RCD are considerable, and
are centred upon reducing the risk of injury to humans that are exposed to a fault, and
reducing the risk of damage to associated equipment and property. These safety features
include, by way of example:
        *  Triggering the Circuit Breaker within 5 ms to 10 ms.
        *  Limiting electric shock and leakage current to 10 mA.
        " Detecting and providing safety in high impedance Earth to Neutral (fault or
           location) environments.
        *  Recognizing and acting on the three possible electric shock (or fault leakage)
           events. These events include:
            o Active to chassis shock or leakage within the same circuit breaker loop
                (RCD measurement plus chassis current measurement and limiting).
            o Active of a different Circuit Breaker loop to the chassis of the same circuit
                breaker loop shock or leakage (chassis current measurement and limiting.
                RCD is not functional).
            o Active of the same circuit breaker loop to the chassis of a different circuit
                breaker loop shock or leakage (RCD Measurement).
[00125]    In any electrical circuit with an Active and a Neutral the current flow is from
Active to Neutral. The introduction of Earth or Ground and the subsequent connection of
Neutral to Ground in various countries and locations have some variations in regulations.
The apparent reliance on "Earth" from a safety viewpoint has been largely misunderstood.
By way of example, since the plumbing systems have increasingly moved from the use of
copper pipes to plastic pipes (for cost reasons) electrical safety in the home has been
decreased as the reliance on a common earth is less certain.

                                                 24
[00126]    Isolated systems (from Ground) have been shown to offer the maximum safety.
[00127]   The development of RCD safety switches has improved safety only where the
Ground to Neutral connection has been well maintained. There are regions in Australia as
well as elsewhere in the world where a good Ground to Neutral connection is not present
and the use of RCDs to provide adequate protection is problematic. This is of course not a
loop wiring issue but often a "wiring to the pole" and/or a "dry" earth stake depending on
location and regulation around the world.
[00128]    Ultimately leakage currents go to Neutral at the power source (switchboard,
power pole or transformer station).
[00129]    For those applications making use of the Super RCD, when a high Earth current
is detected there is an electronic switch that releases the Earth wire from Ground and
references it to Neutral in a current measurement and current limiting circuit with a fast
response time. This low current limit of 10 mA provides the added safety that allows a
person suffering an electric shock to release the wire/chassis/item they are holding and
connecting to the chassis. Depending on the resistance of the shock or leakage to the
chassis the chassis voltage rises to limit the current this is less than 40 Volts for a 10 mA
leakage or high skin resistance shock to full mains voltage for an active to earth short
circuit.
[00130]    In the most cost-effective version of this electronic switch the electronic
components are fast, rated for the mains voltage, and high transient current switches.
Recognizing that the switching will be occurring at the 10 mA current limiting level sensed
by the Earth current sensor there is only a transient requirement for very high currents.
[00131]    In this most cost-effective solution the electronic switches are "normally off"
meaning a supply voltage (at very low current) is required to turn them "on" and create the
Earth to Chassis link. Thus any testing of chassis earths requires the Super RCD to be in
place and have an active supply connected to it.
[00132]    It is noted that the Super RCD protects from the supply source with RCD
technology by turning off the supply when the active/neutral current differential exceeds
30 mA and also protects at the leakage to chassis end by limiting the current to 10 mA
(and switching off the supply if matched by RCD differential current) at the same time.
This has a significant benefit in ground current created electric shock situations.
[00133]   A high level outline of the functionality provided by the Super RCD is provided
in Table 1 of Australian provisional patent application 2012903629 filed 22 August 2012,
the subject matter of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by way of cross
reference.

                                                25
[00134]    For the purpose of clarifying the basic unique operational characteristics arising
from the integration of the iFS technology with the RCD technology and, the benefits of
the Super RCD, exemplary performance criteria is provided in Table 2 of Australian
provisional patent application 2012903629 filed 22 August 2012, the subject matter of
which is incorporated herein in its entirety by way of cross reference.
[00135]    Important to the practical development of the Super RCD is compliance with
international standards for isolation in response to the full spectrum of fault conditions
defined for the RCD. The nature of the protection performance provided by the Super
RCD is provided in Table 3 of Australian provisional patent application 2012903629 filed
22 August 2012, the subject matter of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by way
of cross reference.
[00136]    Installation circuits, equipment and environments present a spectrum of
operational challenges. Standard and regulations mandate compatibility with a range of
devices and installation configurations and the need to continue operation. The
continuance of operation performance of an embodiment of the Super RCD is provided in
Table 4 of Australian provisional patent application 2012903629 filed 22 August 2012,
the subject matter of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by way of cross
reference.
[00137]    In other embodiments,        the RCD functionality is substituted with the
functionality of one or more of: an RCCG; and a RCBO. That is, the iFS functionality - in
some cases together with a selected one or more of the other functionalities such as the
earth isolation functionality, the testing functionality, and other functionalities of the
above embodiments - is able to be applied to other protection devices and not simply to
an RCD-type protection device. The present applicant designates embodiments of the
invention having the RCCG functionality as "Super RCCB", and embodiments having the
RCBO functionality as "Super RCBO".
[00138]    There are three international earthing systems. Most countries now operate a
mix of TN and TT. In manufacturing buildings the installation of all three systems is not
uncommon in all main international markets. Consequently, the Super RCD/Super
RCCG/Super RCBO is configured from the start to be able to operate or be easily adapted
to operate with all current RCD configurations as a "plug and play" without variations to
the installation procedure other than those mandated for the installation of RCDs in each
of the three international earthing systems. The compatibility of the Super RCD to the
different earthing systems is provided in Table 5 of Australian provisional patent

                                                26
application 2012903629 filed 22 August 2012, the subject matter of which is
incorporated herein in its entirety by way of cross reference.
[00139] The Super RCD has been designed for use with many different installations
that are presently configured for different RCDs. Examples of these are provided in
Table 6 of Australian provisional patent application 2012903629 filed 22 August 2012,
the subject matter of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by way of cross
reference.
[00140]     Other device requirements and design features for the Super RCD are
provided in Table 7 of Australian provisional patent application 2012903629 filed
22 August 2012, the subject matter of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by way
of cross reference.
[00141]     Selected desired features for other preferred embodiments of the Super RCD
are provided in Table 8 of Australian provisional patent application 2012903629 filed
22 August 2012, the subject matter of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by way
of cross reference.
[00142]     Selected performance, rating and feature requirements for embodiments of the
Super RCD are provided in Table 9 of Australian provisional patent application
2012903629 filed 22 August 2012, the subject matter of which is incorporated herein in
its entirety by way of cross reference.
[00143]     The ability of the Super RCD to be configured for compliance with standards
and regulations (such as the Cenelec and IEC Standards) is provided in Table 10 of
Australian provisional patent application 2012903629 filed 22 August 2012, the subject
matter of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by way of cross reference.
[00144]     The electrical components used in device 1, and the arrangement and
connection of those components, is shown in detail in Figure 3 of Australian provisional
patent application 2012903629 filed 22 August 2012, the subject matter of which is
incorporated herein in its entirety by way of cross reference. Moreover, the specific
components are listed in Tables 11 to 15 inclusive of Australian provisional patent
application 2012903629 filed 22 August 2012, the combined subject matter of which is
incorporated herein in its entirety by way of cross reference.
[00145]     The further embodiment of the Super RCD is illustrated specifically in Figures 3
and 4. More particularly, there is shown an electrical protection device 100 for an electrical
load 13 having an external conductive surface in the form of protective metalwork 102.
Device 100 includes a pair of input terminals 2 and 3 for respectively electrically
connecting to an active conductor 4 and a neutral conductor 5 of an electrical power

                                                  27
source 6 that is upstream of device 100. A pair of output terminals 11 and 12 electrically
connects to load 13. The load is electrically downstream of device 100 and, in use, draws
a load current. A first monitoring unit 105 is responsive to the load current flowing in
conductors 4 and 5 for selectively generating a first fault signal. A second monitoring
unit 106 selectively generates a second fault signal in response to current flowing from
metalwork 102 to conductor 5. A current limiter unit 107 is disposed electrically between
metalwork 102 and an electrical earth 110. Unit 107 is responsive to current flowing from
metalwork 102 to earth 110 for selectively electrically isolating the metalwork from
earth 110. A protection unit 112 operates in a normal state to electrically connect
terminals 2 and 3 to terminals 11 and 12 respectively (as shown in Figure 4) to allow the
load current to flow from source 6 to load 13 via device 1. Unit 112 is responsive to either
of the first fault signal and the second fault signal for operating in a protected state (as
shown in Figure 3) to electrically isolate terminals 2 and 3 from terminals 11 and 12, and
prevent the flow of the load current. The latter occurs in this embodiment by unit 112
progressing a single throw double pole switch 113 from a closed configuration shown in
Figure 4 to an open configuration shown in Figure 3.
[00146]     For device 100: the RCD functionality is provided by unit 105 in combination
with unit 112; the iFS functionality is provided by unit 106 in combination with unit 112;
and the earth isolation functionality is provided by unit 107 in combination with unit 112.
[00147]     In this exemplary embodiment load 13 is a refrigerator for use in a retail
supermarket and the protective metalwork 102 defines an external housing for the
refrigerator that is able to be contacted by customers of the supermarket as they access
goods from within the refrigerator. It will be appreciated that in other embodiments load 13
is other than an electrical appliance, and is another form of electrical load.
[00148]    Monitoring unit 105 includes a differential transformer 115 and is responsive to
an imbalance in the load current flowing downstream of the device in conductors 4 and 5
for selectively generating the first fault signal. More particularly, in this embodiment
unit 105 generates the first fault signal in response to the current imbalance exceeding a
first predetermined threshold of 30 mA. However, in other embodiments the threshold is
other than 30 mA. In other exemplary embodiments the threshold is one of: 50 mA;
15 mA; 20 mA; or another value selected for the specific application.
[00149]    Monitoring unit 106 generates the second fault signal in response to the current
flowing from metalwork 102 to conductor 5 exceeding a second predetermined threshold
of 30 mA. However, in other embodiments the threshold is other than 30 mA. In other

                                                  28
exemplary embodiments the threshold is one of: 50 mA; 15 mA; 20 mA; or another value
selected for the specific application.
[00150]    In other embodiments unit 106 generates the second fault signal in response to
the voltage between the surface and the neutral conductor exceeding a third
predetermined threshold of 5 Volts. In other embodiments different voltage thresholds are
used.
[00151]    In further embodiments unit 106 generates the second fault signal in response
to both of: current flowing from metalwork 102 to conductor 5; and the voltage between
metalwork 102 and conductor 5. That is, either of the two conditions, if present, will result
in the second fault signal being generated, whereas in the earlier described embodiments
only one of the two conditions is monitored.
[00152]    Unit 112 includes a transformer 116 for providing a signal indicative of the
current flowing from metalwork 102 to earth 110. The unit 112 is responsive to that signal
for providing a control signal in control line 117 that actuates unit 107 to electrically isolate
metalwork 102 from earth 110. Unit 112 is responsive to the signal indicating that the
current flowing is greater than a fourth predetermined threshold. In this particularl
embodiment the predetermined threshold is 5 mA. However, in other embodiments
different current thresholds are used.
[00153]    As best shown in Figure 5, unit 105 includes a first electrical circuit (which
includes the electrical components that are generally bounded by a rectangle 121) and
unit 106 includes a second electrical circuit (which includes the electrical components that
are generally bounded by two rectangles 122). These two circuits also included additional
common electrical components which are generally represented by those components
that are bounded by broken line 123. As shown in Figure 5, these common components
include primarily PIC 16F684 (both devices). That is, the shared components include the
two processors that interact and cooperate to provide redundancy, allow for self-testing,
and to enable other high-level functions for device 100. Importantly, the sharing of these
components allows a cost-effective implementation for this additional functionality that
could not be practically or economically realised from separate physical packaging or
design of the two RCD and iFS functionalities.
[00154]    Unit 112 includes a third circuit that, as shown in Figure 5, generally includes
the components bounded by rectangle 124.
[00155]    As also shown by Figure 3 and Figure 5 in combination, device 100 is realised
with unit 105 and unit 106 being defined by a single electrical circuit 125 which includes
substantially all of the components in the abovementioned circuits. That is, this single

                                                  29
circuit also includes the current limiter unit 107, and the protection unit 112. Moreover, the
single circuit of Figure 5 allows the embodiment to be fully realized (with the minor
exception of the two differential transformers and the isolation switch 113) as a single
electronic circuit and therefore as an integrated circuit to contribute to low cost and
ultimate manufacturability. Alternative embodiments offering similar functionality use
similar or parallel electronic techniques. In addition in further embodiments the differential
transformers and switch (that is, the electrical isolator actuated by unit 112) are
implemented using high voltage silicon, GAN, SiC and/or MEMS technology for certain
(in particular low current low voltage) applications. That is, other embodiments are able
to realizing a completely solid state implementation.
[00156]     It will also be appreciated that the use of a single electrical circuit and single
circuit board facilitates the containment of device 100 in a single housing. In this
embodiments use is made of a standardised housing to further enhance the retrofitting of
device 100 within an existing switchboard or other location within an ECS, while offering
users with a familiar form factor.
[00157]    As shown in Figure 3 and 4, circuit 125 (the single circuit) is electrically
connected to the active conductor 4 and the neutral conductor 5 downstream of
switch 113 via lines 129 and 130. This allows circuit 125 (and the various parts of that
circuit, such as unit 106) to use those conductors as reference points.
[00158]     In Figure 5 the single circuit 125 is developed completely in silicon, with the
exception of the transformers and the switch 113 (which are designated in Figure 5 as S1
and S2). However, in other embodiments these exceptions are also able to be
implemented to allow full integration of all the components. A list of the electrical
components used in circuit 125 is provided below in Appendix 1.
[00159]     In use, unit 105 monitors the differential current flowing through terminals 2
and 3 to terminals 11 and 12 respectively (and therefore onto load 13). This current is
measured through differential current transformer 115. If the differential signal exceeds a
pre-selectable level - which would indicate an unacceptably high current is leaking from
load 13 due to a fault - then unit 105 will issue the first fault signal. Unit 112 is responsive
to that signal to cause the protection function to operate to disconnect load 13 from
source 6. This occurs through the operation of switch 113 toggling to a protective state.
[00160]     Unit 106 monitors the "iFS current" - that is, the current flowing from
metalwork 102 to the power supply reference (normally supply neutral) through lines 129
and 130. If this current exceeds a pre-selectable level (indicating a fault of the power
system to the metalwork 102) then unit 106 will generate the second fault signal. Unit 112

                                                     30
is responsive to the second fault signal to disconnect - that is, electrically isolate - load 13
by progressing switch 113 to a protective state.
[00161]      In addition, current limit unit 107 provides a connection to allow current to flow
from metalwork 102 to earth 110. In this way unit 112 monitors current flow from
metalwork 102 to earth 110 through current transformer 116. If the current exceeds a
predetermined threshold, unit 117 controls unit 107 to electrically isolate metalwork 102
from earth 110.         In other embodiments the monitoring of the current between
metalwork 102 and earth 110 occurs at unit 107.
[00162]      It will be appreciated that contemporaneously to the control of unit 107 to isolate
metalwork 102 from earth 110, unit 112 progresses switch 113 from the normal
operational state to the protective state. That is, load 13 is then fully isolated from both the
power source and earth 110.
[00163]      In this embodiment the processors included in circuit 115 are programmed to
implement a testing regime. This regime includes a self-test function for testing the
operation of the circuitry used in circuit 125.
[00164]      In a further embodiment of circuit 125 (not shown) use is made of alarms or
alerts to indicate the state of operation of device 100, and in particular to indicate if one or
more of the faults has been detected. These alarms or alerts are selected from: electrical
communications; visual indications; and audible indications.
[00165]      Further embodiments of the protection device (not shown) include remote
monitoring functionality to allow the device to be monitored as part of a smart grid, as an
SNMP node, or as an integrated node in another remote monitoring system (whether
proprietary or otherwise).
[00166]      Figure 5 is provided is an illustration of an exemplary embodiment that is able to
be implemented (other than for the two transformers and the isolation switches S1
and S2) as an electronic circuit 125 and therefore as an integrated circuit for minimal cost
and ultimate manufacturability. Other embodiments having similar functionality and using
similar or parallel electronic techniques by someone skilled in the art are also anticipated.
In addition it is anticipated that in other embodiments the current transformers and
switches S1 and S2 are able to be implemented using high voltage silicon, GAN or SiC
and MEMS technology for certain (in particular low current low voltage) applications. That
is, it is appreciated by the inventors that embodiments are able to be implemented using a
completely solid state circuit.
[00167]     The operation of device 100 is illustrated in the flowchart of Figure 7.
[00168]     The major advantages provided by different embodiments include:

                                                    31
          *     The use of a single circuit to provide multiple protection functions.
          *     The inclusion of RCD functionality, iFS functionality and earth isolation
          functionality in a single device.
          *     Applicability of the embodiments for use in any EDS. For example, some
          embodiments are able to be used in any EDS without modification any still
          provide protection.
          0     The protection device is automatically configured to provide a high level of
          protection regardless of the type of the EDS.
          *     Ability of the protection devices to adapt to changing EDS conditions with
          time. For example, if an installation initially has a good earth connection that
          deteriorates with time, the protection device will still operate to protect personnel
          and equipment.
          *     The sharing of electrical components between the functionalities to allow a
          lower cost implementation without compromising the quality of the protection.
          *     The ability to use high voltage Si, GAN, SIC or MEMS technology to
          implement a solid state embodiment of the invention, and to allow for integrated
          current transformers and/or circuit breakers.
          *     The provision of self-testing and user testing functionality through the use of
          microprocessor control.
[00169]     It will be appreciated that the disclosure above provides various significant
electrical protection devices.
[00170]     Unless specifically stated otherwise, as apparent from the following discussions,
it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as
"processing," "computing," "calculating," "determining", analyzing" or the like, refer to the
action and/or processes of a computer or computing system, or similar electronic
computing device, that manipulate and/or transform data represented as physical, such as
electronic, quantities into other data similarly represented as physical quantities.
[00171]     In a similar manner, the term "processor" may refer to any device or portion of a
device that processes electronic data, e.g., from registers and/or memory to transform
that electronic data into other electronic data that, e.g., may be stored in registers and/or
memory. A "computer" or a "computing machine" or a "computing platform" may include
one or more processors.
[00172]     It should be appreciated that in the above description of exemplary
embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped

                                                  32
together in a single embodiment, Figure, or description thereof for the purpose of
streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various
inventive aspects. This method of disclosure, however, is not to be interpreted as
reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are
expressly recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive aspects
lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims
following the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed
Description, with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this
invention.
[00173]     Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not
other features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different
embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form different
embodiments, as would be understood by those skilled in the art. For example, in the
following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination.
[00174]     Furthermore, some of the embodiments are described herein as a method or
combination of elements of a method that can be implemented by a processor of a
computer system or by other means of carrying out the function. Thus, a processor with
the necessary instructions for carrying out such a method or element of a method forms a
means for carrying out the method or element of a method. Furthermore, an element
described herein of an apparatus embodiment is an example of a means for carrying out
the function performed by the element for the purpose of carrying out the invention.
[00175]     In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth.
However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without
these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques
have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
[00176]     Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred
embodiments of the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further
modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention, and it
is intended to claim all such changes and modifications as falling within the scope of the
invention. For example, any formulas given above are merely representative of
procedures that may be used. Functionality may be added or deleted from the block
diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional blocks. Steps may be
added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the present invention.

                                               33
APPENDIX 1
 Comment       Description Designator              Footprint   LibRef        Quantity
 D305          Zener Diode 10V                     DIODE-0.7   D Zener       1
               Capacitor   C1, C6, C8, C9, Ci1     RAD-0.3     CAP           5
 0603          Capacitor   C2                      RAD-0.3     CAP           1
 Cap           Capacitor   C3, C10                 RAD-0.3     CAP           2
 10uF                      C5                                  CAP           1
 4.7uF                     C7                                  CAP           1
 100nF         Capacitor   C17, C18                RAD-0.3     CAP           2
 10nF          Capacitor   C18                     RAD-0.3     Cap           2
 10uF          Capacitor   C18                     RAD-0.3     Cap           1
 33nF          Capacitor   C18                     RAD-0.3     Cap           1
 33nF 500V     Capacitor   C18                     RAD-0.3     Cap           2
 220nF         Capacitor   C18                     RAD-0.3     Cap           2
 1n4007                    D1                                  D1            1
 Diode         Default     D2, D3, D4, D303, D306  DSO-C2/X3.3 Diode         6
               Diode
 BAV99W                    D5, D8                              D1, DIODE     2
               Default     D6                      DSO-C2/X3.3 Diode         1
               Diode
 BAS16W                    D7                                  D1            1
 BAV99W        Default     D9, D10                 DSO-C2/X3.3 DIODE         2
               Diode
 10V           Zener Diode D300                    DIODE-0.7   D Zener       1
 BAS16         Default     D301, D304, D310, D311, DSO-C2/X3.3 DIODE         8
               Diode       D500, D501, D?
 Solenoid Coil Magnetic-   Li                      AXIAL-0.9   Inductor Iron 1
               Core
               Inductor
               Adjustable  L2, L5, L7              AXIAL-1.0   Inductor Iron 3
               Magnetic-                                       Adj
               Core
               Inductor
               Inductor    L3, L4, L6, L8          INDC1005-   Inductor      4
                                                   0402
 5BC856B       PNP         Q1                      BCY-W3/E4   2N3906        1
               General
               Purpose
               Amplifier
 BC857B        PNP         Q1                      BCY-W3/E4   2N3906        1
               General
               Purpose
               Amplifier
 BC846BW       NPN Bipolar Q2, Q9                  BCY-W3      npn           2
               Transistor
 BC846B        NPN Bipolar Q3                      BCY-W3      npn           1
               Transistor
 BC856BW       PNP         Q4                      BCY-W3/E4   2N3906        1
               General
               Purpose
               Amplifier
 RSE002P03TL   P-Channel   Q5                      BCY-W3/H.8  MOSFET-P      1
               MOSFET
 2N7002W       N-Channel   Q6                      BCY-W3/H.8  MOSFET-N      1
               MOSFET

                                         34
Comment Description Designator                Footprint  LibRef   Quantity
FMMT560 PNP Bipolar Q7                        SO-G3/C2.5 PNP      1
        Transistor
FMMT459 NPN Bipolar Q8                        BCY-W3     NPN      1
        Transistor
BC856BW PNP Bipolar Q10                       SO-G3/C2.5 PNP      1
        Transistor
PNP     PNP Bipolar Q151, Q152, Q201, Q202,   SO-G3/C2.5 PNP      6
        Transistor  Q305, Q310
NPN     NPN Bipolar Q153, Q154, Q203, Q204,   BCY-W3     NPN      9
        Transistor  Q303, Q304, Q306, Q311,
                    Q?
IGBT    N-Channel   Q301, Q302                BCY-W3/B.8 MOSFET-N 2
        MOSFET
BC847B  NPN Bipolar Q?                        BCY-W3     NPN      1
        Transistor
BC857B  PNP Bipolar Q?                        SO-G3/C2.5 PNP      1
        Transistor
300k    Resistor    R1, R30                   AXIAL-0.3  ResI     2
        Resistor    R2, R7, R8, R9, R17, R18, AXIAL-0.3  ResI     10
                    R27, R31, R34, R37
ResI    Resistor    R3, R5, R12, R13, R14,    AXIAL-0.3  ResI     13
                    R16, R20, R25, R26, R28,
                    R29, R36, R38
60k     Resistor    R4, R24, R39              AXIAL-0.3  ResI     3
1OR     Resistor    R6                        AXIAL-0.3  ResI     1
iM      Resistor    R10, R32                  AXIAL-0.3  RES1     2
5K      Resistor    R15, R35                  AXIAL-0.3  RES1     2
2.1K    Resistor    R19                       AXIAL-0.3  RES1     1
10k     Resistor    R21, R42, R43, R44, R72,  AXIAL-0.3  ResI     7
                    R87, R90
1.6K    Resistor    R22                       AXIAL-0.3  RES1     1
1K      Resistor    R23, R33                  AXIAL-0.3  ResI     2
50OR    Resistor    R40, R41                  AXIAL-0.3  ResI     2
100k    Resistor    R45, R48, R49,  R50, R59, AXIAL-0.3  ResI     21
                    R60, R62, R63,  R65, R74,
                    R75, R76, R79,  R83, R84,
                    R88, R89, R95,  R96, R99,
                    R104
10OR    Resistor    R46                       AXIAL-0.3  ResI     1
80R     Resistor    R47, R85, R86             AXIAL-0.3  ResI     3
10k     Resistor    R51, R61                             RES      2
400k    Resistor    R52, R55, R64, R68        AXIAL-0.3  ResI     4
200k    Resistor    R53, R54, R56, R66, R67,  AXIAL-0.3  ResI     7
                    R69, R100
200R    Resistor    R57, R70, R71             AXIAL-0.3  ResI     3
200     Resistor    R58                       AXIAL-0.3  ResI     1
100ki   Resistor    R73                       AXIAL-0.3  ResI     1
2k4     Resistor    R77                       AXIAL-0.3  ResI     1
25k     Resistor    R78                       AXIAL-0.3  ResI     1
24k     Resistor    R80                       AXIAL-0.3  ResI     1
600k    Resistor    R81                       AXIAL-0.3  ResI     1
2M5     Resistor    R82                       AXIAL-0.3  ResI     1
20k     Resistor    R91, R93, R94             AXIAL-0.3  ResI     3

                                  35
Comment   Description  Designator    Footprint    LibRef     Quantity
50k       Resistor     R92           AXIAL-0.3    Res1       1
500k      Resistor     R97, R101     AXIAL-0.3    Res1       2
2Meg      Resistor     R102, R103    AXIAL-0.3    Res1       2
SW-SPST   Single-Pole, S1            SPST-2       SW-SPST    1
          Single
          Throw
          Switch
          Switch       S1,S2         SPST-2       SW-PB      2
Z0103     Triac        T1, T2        SFM-T3/A2.4V TRIAC      2
TLC2252                U1            DIP-8        LF353      1
TLC22524               U1            DIP-8        LF353      1
PIC16F684              U1,U2         DIP8         PIC12F629  2
TLC2254                U1B           DIP-8        LF353      1
Varistor               Vi            CAPR2.54-    CAP        1
                                     5.1 X3.2
Varistor  Capacitor    V2, V3        RAD-0.3      CAP        2
BZX84C43W              Z1, Z2        SOT23        ZENER(SOT- 2
                                                  23)
3V6                    Z3, Z4        SOT23        ZENER(SOT- 2
                                                  23)
BZX84C12               Z5, Z6        SOT23        ZENER(SOT- 2
                                                  23)
4V7                    Z7, Z8        SOT23        ZENER(SOT- 2
                                                  23)

                                                   36
CLAIMS
1.       An electrical protection device for an electrical load having an external conductive
surface, the device including:
         at least two input terminals for electrically connecting to an active conductor and a
         neutral conductor of an electrical power source that is upstream of the protection
         device;
         at least two output terminals for electrically connecting to the load, wherein the
         load is electrically downstream of the protection device and, in use, draws a load
         current;
         a first monitoring unit that is responsive to the load current flowing in the active
         conductor and the neutral conductor upstream of the protection device and
         adjacent the at least two input terminals for selectively generating a first fault
         signal;
         a second monitoring unit for selectively generating a second fault signal in
         response to current flowing from the surface to a pair of reference lines
         respectively electrically connected to the active and neutral conductors located
         adjacent the at least two output terminals; and
         a protection unit for operating in a normal state to electrically connect the input
         terminals to the output terminals to allow the load current to flow from the source to
         the load via the protection device, the protection unit being responsive to either of
         the first fault signal and the second fault signal for operating in a protected state to
         electrically isolate the input terminals from the output terminals and prevent the
         flow of the load current.
2.       An electrical protection device according to claim 1 wherein the conductive surface
is protective metalwork.
3.       An electrical protection device according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the first
monitoring unit is responsive to an imbalance in the load current flowing in the active and
the neutral conductors upstream of the protection device for selectively generating the first
fault signal.
4.       An electrical protection device according to any one of the preceding claims
wherein the second monitoring unit also generates the second fault signal in response to
the current flowing from the surface to an earth.

                                                   37
5.       An electrical protection device according to any one of the preceding claims
wherein the second monitoring unit also generates the second fault signal in response to
the voltage between the surface and the neutral conductor.
6.       An electrical protection device according to any one of the preceding claims
wherein the second monitoring unit also generates the second fault signal in response to
the voltage between the surface and the earth.
7.       An electrical protection device according to any one of the preceding claims
including a current limiter unit between the surface and an electrical earth, the current
limiter unit being responsive to current flowing from the surface to the earth for selectively
electrically isolating the surface from the earth.
8.       An electrical protection device according to any one of the preceding claims
wherein the first monitoring unit includes a first electrical circuit and the second monitoring
unit includes a second electrical circuit having at least one electrical component in
common with the first electrical circuit.
9.       An electrical protection circuit according to claim 8 wherein the first electrical circuit
and the second electrical circuit have multiple electrical components in common.
10.      An electrical protection device according to claim 8 wherein the at least one
electrical component is a processor.
11.      An electrical protection device according to claim 8 wherein the at least one
electrical component is a pair of mirrored processors.
12.      An electrical protection device according to any one of the preceding claims
wherein the first monitoring unit and the second monitoring unit are defined by a single
electrical circuit.
13.      An electrical protection device according to any one of claims 1 to 7 wherein two or
more of the first monitoring unit, the second monitoring unit, and the protection unit are
defined by a single electrical circuit.
14.      An electrical protection device according to claim 13 wherein the single electrical
circuit is contained within a single housing.
15.      An electrical protection device according to claim 13 wherein the single electrical
circuit is mounted to a single circuit board.

                                                38
16.      An electrical protection device according to any one of claims 1 to 7 including a
plurality of electrical components, wherein all of the electrical components are solid state
components.
17.      An electrical protection device according to claim 16 wherein the solid state
components are included in one or more integrated circuits.
18.      An electrical protection device according to claim 17 wherein the solid state
components are included in a single integrated circuit.
19.      An electrical protection device according to any one of the preceding claims
including one or more processor.

                                          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      1
                            20
     6                                                 13
                      41
             2                                    11
         4
Source                                                      Load
                                                                     1/6
         5   3                                    12
                                      30
                 50                        55
                                 40
                      Figure 1

                                            <removed-apn>        <removed-date>
                                      1
                            20
     6                                                   13
                      41
             2                                    11
         4
Source                                                          Load        2/6
         5   3                                    12
                                      30
                 50                        55
                                 40
                      Figure 2

                                                          3/6
<removed-date>
                                                    110
                                                                                        116
                                   120
                             Single Circuit                 117                         107
                                                                            Current
                   125                                                     Limit Unit
                                            112
<removed-apn>
                                                    Protection    Second
                   100               First Unit
                                                       Unit        Unit
                    4              105                                     106
               6                                                                        102
                                              113           130        129        11
                             2
              Source         3                                                    12      Load
                                                                                        13
                         5            115
                                                    Figure 3
                                                    110
                                                                                        116
                                   120
                             Single Circuit                 117                         107
                                                                            Current
                   125                                                     Limit Unit
                                            112
                                                    Protection    Second
                   100               First Unit
                                                       Unit        Unit
                    4              105                                     106
               6                                                                        102
                                              113           130        129        11
                             2
              Source         3                                                    12      Load
                                                                                        13
                         5            115
                                                    Figure 4

       <removed-apn>       <removed-date>
      Figure 5    125
      124
            123   122
                                      4/6
                         122
121

<removed-apn>       <removed-date>
           125
Figure 6
                               5/6

                                                         6/6
<removed-date>
                                                      Operating in normal state
                               Unit 105 monitors          Unit 106 monitors            Unit 112 monitors
              Self test        current imbalance              metalwork                 current to earth
                                                                                            Earth
<removed-apn>
                          NO    Fault detected?            Fault detected?             current exceeds
                                                                                         threshold?
                                        NO                               NO
                                      YES                         YES                         YES
                                                                                            Isolate
                                 Generate 1st                Generate 2nd
                                                                                          metalwork
                                 fault signal                 fault signal
                                                                                          from earth
                                            Unit 112 progresses unit 100 to protected state
                YES
                                                                                  NO
                                                               Reset?
                                        Figure 7

