                                         ABSTRACT
       The present invention is directed to 1,2,5-oxadiazole derivatives, and compositions of
the same, which are inhibitors of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase and are useful in the treatment
of cancer and other disorders, and to the processes and intermediates for making such 1,2,5
oxadiazole derivatives.

                1/3
             Figure 1
   7000
   6000
   5000
   4000
.C 3000
   2000
   1000
        1  1
          'U 20                 30 40
                Two-Theta (deg)

                                                                                         P/00/011
                                                                                    Regulation 3.2
                                        AUSTRALIA
                                       Patents Act 1990
                    COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                           FOR A DIVISIONAL PATENT
                                        ORIGINAL
Name of Applicant:        INCYTE HOLDINGS CORPORATION
Actual Inventors:         Andrew P. COMBS
                          Eddy W. YUE
                          Jiacheng ZHOU
                          Lingkai WENG
                          Wenyu ZHU
                          Qiyan LIN
                          Richard B. SPARKS
                          Tai-Yuen YUE
                          Pingli LIU
Address for Service:      Houlihan2 , Level     1, 70 Doncaster Road, Balwyn North, Victoria
                          3104, Australia
Invention Title:           1,2,5-OXADIAZOLES AS INHIBITORS OF INDOLEAMINE
                          2,3-DIOXYGENASE
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to the Applicant:
                                              1

                             1,2,5-OXADIAZOLES AS INHIBITORS OF
                                INDOLEAMINE 2,3-DIOXYGENASE
 5          The present Application is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent
    Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a Divisional Application from Australian Patent
    Application No. 2014210662, which is in turn a Divisional Application from Australian
    Patent Application No. 2009268739. The entire disclosures of Australian Patent Application
    Nos. <removed-apn>, 2014210662 and 2009268739, and corresponding International Patent
 0  Application No. PCT/US2009/049794, are incorporated herein by reference.
    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
            The present invention is directed to 1,2,5-oxadiazole derivatives which are inhibitors
    of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase and are useful in the treatment of cancer and other disorders,
 5  and to processes and intermediates for making the same.
    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
            Tryptophan (Trp) is an essential amino acid required for the biosynthesis of proteins,
    niacin and the neurotransmitter 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin). The enzyme indoleamine
 '0 2,3-dioxygenase (also known as INDO or IDO) catalyzes the first and rate limiting step in the
    degradation of L-tryptophan to N-formyl-kynurenine. In human cells, a depletion of Trp
    resulting from IDO activity is a prominent gamma interferon (IFN-y) -inducible
    antimicrobial effector mechanism. IFN-y stimulation induces activation of IDO, which leads
    to a depletion of Trp, thereby arresting the growth of Trp-dependent intracellular pathogens
25  such as Toxoplasma gondii and Chlamydia trachomatis.IDO activity also has an
    antiproliferative effect on many tumor cells, and IDO induction has been observed in vivo
    during rejection of allogeneic tumors, indicating a possible role for this enzyme in the tumor
    rejection process (Daubener, et al., 1999, Adv. Exp. Med. Biol., 467: 517-24; Taylor, et al.,
    1991, FASEB J., 5: 2516-22).
30          It has been observed that HeLa cells co-cultured with peripheral blood lymphocytes
    (PBLs) acquire an immuno-inhibitory phenotype through up-regulation of IDO activity. A
    reduction in PBL proliferation upon treatment with interleukin-2 (IL2) was believed to result
    from IDO released by the tumor cells in response to IFNG secretion by the PBLs. This effect
    was reversed by treatment with 1-methyl-tryptophan (IMT), a specific IDO inhibitor. It was
                                                  2

    proposed that IDO activity in tumor cells may serve to impair antitumor responses (Logan, et
    al., 2002, Immunology, 105: 478-87).
             Recently, an immunoregulatory role of Trp depletion has received much attention.
    Several lines of evidence suggest that IDO is involved in induction of immune tolerance.
 5  Studies of mammalian pregnancy, tumor resistance, chronic infections and autoimmune
    diseases have shown that cells expressing IDO can suppress T-cell responses and promote
    tolerance. Accelerated Trp catabolism has been observed in diseases and disorders associated
    with cellular immune activation, such as infection, malignancy, autoimmune diseases and
    AIDS, as well as during pregnancy. For example, increased levels of IFNs and elevated levels
 0  of urinary Trp metabolites have been observed in autoimmune diseases; it has been
    postulated that systemic or local depletion of Trp occurring in autoimmune diseases may
    relate to the degeneration and wasting symptoms of these diseases. In support of this
    hypothesis, high levels of IDO were observed in cells isolated from the synovia of arthritic
    joints. IFNs are also elevated in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) patients and
 5  increasing IFN levels are associated with a worsening prognosis. Thus, it was proposed that
    IDO is induced chronically by HIV infection, and is further increased by opportunistic
    infections, and that the chronic loss of Trp initiates mechanisms responsible for cachexia,
    dementia and diarrhea and possibly immunosuppression of AIDS patients (Brown, et al.,
     1991, Adv. Exp. Med. Biol., 294: 425-35). To this end, it has recently been shown that IDO
 '0 inhibition can enhance the levels of virus-specific T cells and, concomitantly, reduce the
    number of virally-infected macrophages in a mouse model of HIV (Portula et al., 2005,
    Blood, 106: 2382-90).
             IDO is believed to play a role in the immunosuppressive processes that prevent fetal
    rejection in utero. More than 40 years ago, it was observed that, during pregnancy, the
25  genetically disparate mammalian conceptus survives in spite of what would be predicted by
    tissue transplantation immunology (Medawar, 1953, Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol. 7: 320-38).
    Anatomic separation of mother and fetus and antigenic immaturity of the fetus cannot fully
    explain fetal allograft survival. Recent attention has focused on immunologic tolerance of the
    mother. Because IDO is expressed by human syncytiotrophoblast cells and systemic
30  tryptophan concentration falls during normal pregnancy, it was hypothesized that IDO
    expression at the maternal-fetal interface is necessary to prevent immunologic rejection of the
    fetal allografts. To test this hypothesis, pregnant mice (carrying syngeneic or allogeneic
    fetuses) were exposed to 1MT, and a rapid, T cell-induced rejection of all allogeneic concepti
    was observed. Thus, by catabolizing tryptophan, the mammalian conceptus appears to
                                                    3

    suppresses T-cell activity and defends itself against rejection, and blocking tryptophan
    catabolism during murine pregnancy allows maternal T cells to provoke fetal allograft
    rejection (Munn, et al., 1998, Science, 281: 1191-3).
            Further evidence for a tumoral immune resistance mechanism based on tryptophan
 5  degradation by IDO comes from the observation that most human tumors constitutively
    express IDO, and that expression of IDO by immunogenic mouse tumor cells prevents their
    rejection by preimmunized mice. This effect is accompanied by a lack of accumulation of
    specific T cells at the tumor site and can be partly reverted by systemic treatment of mice
    with an inhibitor of IDO, in the absence of noticeable toxicity. Thus, it was suggested that the
 0  efficacy of therapeutic vaccination of cancer patients might be improved by concomitant
    administration of an IDO inhibitor (Uyttenhove et al., 2003, Nature Med., 9: 1269-74). It has
    also been shown that the IDO inhibitor, 1-MT, can synergize with chemotherapeutic agents to
    reduce tumor growth in mice, suggesting that IDO inhibition may also enhance the anti-tumor
    activity of conventional cytotoxic therapies (Muller et al., 2005, Nature Med., 11: 312-9).
 5          One mechanism contributing to immunologic unresponsiveness toward tumors may
    be presentation of tumor antigens by tolerogenic host APCs. A subset of human IDO
    expressing antigen-presenting cells (APCs) that coexpressed CD123 (IL3RA) and CCR6 and
    inhibited T-cell proliferation have also been described. Both mature and immature CD123
    positive dendritic cells suppressed T-cell activity, and this IDO suppressive activity was
 '0 blocked by 1MT (Munn, et al., 2002, Science, 297: 1867-70). It has also been demonstrated
    that mouse tumor-draining lymph nodes (TDLNs) contain a subset of plasmacytoid dendritic
    cells (pDCs) that constitutively express immunosuppressive levels of IDO. Despite
    comprising only 0.5% of lymph node cells, in vitro, these pDCs potently suppressed T cell
    responses to antigens presented by the pDCs themselves and also, in a dominant fashion,
25  suppressed T cell responses to third-party antigens presented by nonsuppressive APCs.
    Within the population of pDCs, the majority of the functional IDO-mediated suppressor
    activity segregated with a novel subset of pDCs coexpressing the B-lineage marker CD19.
    Thus, it was hypothesized that IDO-mediated suppression by pDCs in TDLNs creates a local
    microenvironment that is potently suppressive of host antitumor T cell responses (Munn, et
30  al., 2004, J. Clin. Invest., 114(2): 280-90).
            IDO degrades the indole moiety of tryptophan, serotonin and melatonin, and initiates
    the production of neuroactive and immunoregulatory metabolites, collectively known as
    kynurenines. By locally depleting tryptophan and increasing proapoptotic kynurenines, IDO
    expressed by dendritic cells (DCs) can greatly affect T-cell proliferation and survival. IDO
                                                  4

    induction in DCs could be a common mechanism of deletional tolerance driven by regulatory
    T cells. Because such tolerogenic responses can be expected to operate in a variety of
    physiopathological conditions, tryptophan metabolism and kynurenine production might
    represent a crucial interface between the immune and nervous systems (Grohmann, et al.,
 5  2003, Trends Immunol., 24: 242-8). In states of persistent immune activation, availability of
    free serum Trp is diminished and, as a consequence of reduced serotonin production,
    serotonergic functions may also be affected (Wirleitner, et al., 2003, Curr.Med. Chen., 10:
    1581-91).
             Interestingly, administration of interferon-a has been observed to induce
 0  neuropsychiatric side effects, such as depressive symptoms and changes in cognitive
    function. Direct influence on serotonergic neurotransmission may contribute to these side
    effects. In addition, because IDO activation leads to reduced levels of tryptophan, the
    precursor of serotonin (5-HT), IDO may play a role in these neuropsychiatric side effects by
    reducing central 5-HT synthesis. Furthermore, kynurenine metabolites such as 3-hydroxy
 5  kynurenine (3-OH-KYN) and quinolinic acid (QUIN) have toxic effects on brain function. 3
    OH-KYN is able to produce oxidative stress by increasing the production of reactive oxygen
    species (ROS), and QUIN may produce overstimulation of hippocampal N-methyl-D
    aspartate (NMDA) receptors, which leads to apoptosis and hippocampal atrophy. Both ROS
    overproduction and hippocampal atrophy caused by NMDA overstimulation have been
 '0 associated with depression (Wichers and Maes, 2004, J. PsychiatryNeurosci., 29: 11-17).
    Thus, IDO activity may play a role in depression.
             Small molecule inhibitors of IDO are being developed to treat or prevent IDO-related
    diseases such as those described above. For example, oxadiazole and other heterocyclic IDO
    inhibitors are reported in US 2006/0258719 and US 2007/0185165. PCT Publication WO
25  99/29310 reports methods for altering T cell-mediated immunity comprising altering local
    extracellular concentrations of tryptophan and tryptophan metabolites, using an inhibitor of
    IDO such as 1-methyl-DL-tryptophan, p-(3-benzofuranyl)-DL- alanine, p-[3
    benzo(b)thienyl] -DL-alanine, and 6-nitro-L-tryptophan) (Munn, 1999). Reported in WO
    03/087347, also published as European Patent 1501918, are methods of making antigen
30  presenting cells for enhancing or reducing T cell tolerance (Munn, 2003). Compounds
    having indoleamine- 2 ,3-dioxygenase (IDO) inhibitory activity are further reported in WO
    2004/094409; and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004/0234623 is directed to
    methods of treating a subject with a cancer or an infection by the administration of an
    inhibitor of indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase in combination with other therapeutic modalities.
                                                    5

           In light of the experimental data indicating a role for IDO in immunosuppression,
   tumor resistance and/or rejection, chronic infections, HIV-infection, AIDS (including its
   manifestations such as cachexia, dementia and diarrhea), autoimmune diseases or disorders
   (such as rheumatoid arthritis), and immunologic tolerance and prevention of fetal rejection in
 5 utero, therapeutic agents aimed at suppression of tryptophan degradation by inhibiting IDO
   activity are desirable. Inhibitors of IDO can be used to activate T cells and therefore enhance
   T cell activation when the T cells are suppressed by pregnancy, malignancy or a virus such as
   HIV. Inhibition of IDO may also be an important treatment strategy for patients with
   neurological or neuropsychiatric diseases or disorders such as depression. The compounds,
 0 compositions and methods herein help meet the current need for IDO modulators.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           The present invention provides, inter alia, IDO inhibitors of Formula I:
                                                                         R3
                                                           0OH
                                              HII
                                 SN,          N  rN
                             R      NN                                   R2
                                                N ON
 5
   or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein constituent variables are defined herein.
           The present invention further provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
   compound of Formula I, and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
           The present invention further provides a method of inhibiting activity of indoleamine
20 2,3-dioxygenase comprising contacting the indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) with a
   compound of Formula I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
           The present invention further provides a method of inhibiting immunosuppression in a
   patient comprising administering to said patient an effective amount of a compound of
   Formula I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
25         The present invention further provides a method of treating cancer, viral infection,
   depression, a neurodegenerative disorder, trauma, age-related cataracts, organ transplant
   rejection, or an autoimmune disease in a patient comprising administering to said patient a
   therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I, or a pharmaceutically
   acceptable salt thereof.
                                                  6

           The present invention further provides a method of treating melanoma in a patient
   comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of
   Formula I, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
           The present invention further provides a compound of Formula I, or a
 5 pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for use in therapy.
           The present invention further provides use of a compound of Formula I, or a
   pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, for the preparation of a medicament for use in
   therapy.
           The present invention further provides intermediates, processes of preparing the same,
 0 and compositions containing the same, which are useful in the preparation of a compound of
   Formula F15:
                                                                      3
                                                            OH
                                     00                  N2
                               H2NN
                                      H1         N, N      H
                                                 F15
           The present invention further provides intermediates, processes of preparing the same,
   and compositions containing the same, which are useful in the preparation of a compound of
 5 Formula F19:
                                                                        3
                                                         0    HHO
                                      HH                                2~/
                                 3    N         n
                                      H           N,'ON
                                                     '01    H
                                                   F19
           The present invention further provides intermediates, processes of preparing the same,
   and compositions containing the same, which are useful in the preparation of a compound of
   Formula F28:
                                                          NOH
                               H2NN                        N
                                                         C          R4
20                                                F28
                                                 7

   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Figure 1 shows an XRPD pattern characteristic of the compound of the invention
   prepared in Example 1.
           Figure 2 shows a DSC thermogram characteristic of the compound of the invention
 5 prepared in Example 1.
           Figure 3 shows TGA data characteristic of the compound of the invention prepared in
   Example 1.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 0         The present invention provides, inter alia, IDO inhibitors of Formula I:
                                                          SOH           R3
                                              H O           N
                             R1 'N N-'        lN-r                      R
                                                NNO-N
                                                    I
   or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof, wherein:
           R1 is NH 2 or CH 3 ;
 5         R 2 is Cl, Br, CF3, CH3, or CN;
           R3 is H or F; and
           n is 1 or 2.
           In some embodiments, R 1 is NH 2.
           In some embodiments, R 1 is CH3.
20         In some embodiments, R 2 is Cl.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is Br.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is CF 3 .
           In some embodiments, R 2 is CH3.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is CN.
25         In some embodiments, R3 is H.
           In some embodiments, R3 is F.
           In some embodiments, n is 1.
           In some embodiments, n is 2.
           The compounds of the present invention can exist in various solid forms. As used
30 herein "solid form" is meant to refer to a solid characterized by one or more properties such
                                                  8

    as, for example, melting point, solubility, stability, crystallinity, hygroscopicity, water
    content, TGA features, DSC features, DVS features, XRPD features, etc. Solid forms, for
    example, can be amorphous, crystalline, or mixtures thereof.
             Different crystalline solid forms typically have different crystalline lattices (e.g., unit
 5  cells) and, usually as a result, have different physical properties. In some instances, different
    crystalline solid forms have different water or solvent content. The different crystalline
    lattices can be identified by solid state characterization methods such as by X-ray powder
    diffraction (XRPD). Other characterization methods such as differential scanning
    calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), dynamic vapor sorption (DVS), and
 0  the like further help identify the solid form as well as help determine stability and
    solvent/water content.
             In one aspect, the present invention provides various solid forms of 4-({ 2
    [(aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl) amino)-N-(3 -bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy- 1,2,5
    oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide (see Example 1). In some embodiments, the solid form is a
 5  crystalline solid. In some embodiments, the solid form is substantially anhydrous (e.g.,
    contains less than about 1% water, less than about 0.5% water, less than about 1.5% water,
    less than about 2% water,). In some embodiments, the solid form is characterized by a
    melting point of, or a DSC endotherm centered at, about 162 to about 166 'C. In some
    embodiments, the solid form is characterized by a melting point of, or a DSC endotherm
 10 centered at, about 164 'C. In some embodiments, the solid form has a DSC thermogram
    substantially as shown in Figure 2. In further embodiments, the solid form has at least one,
    two or three XRPD peaks, in terms of 2-theta, selected from about 18.4', about 18.90, about
    21.8', about 23.9', about 29.2', and about 38.7'. In further embodiments, the solid form has
    an XRPD pattern substantially as shown in Figure 1.
25           The present invention further provides a composition comprising a solid form of 4
    ({ 2- [(aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl Iamino)-N-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy- 1,2,5
    oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide (see Example 1). The composition can comprise at least
    about 50%, at least about 75%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, or at least about 99%
    by weight of the solid form. The composition can also contain a pharmaceutically acceptable
30  excipient. In some embodiments, the solid form is substantially purified.
             An XRPD pattern of reflections (peaks) is typically considered a fingerprint of a
    particular crystalline form. It is well known that the relative intensities of the XRPD peaks
    can widely vary depending on, inter alia, the sample preparation technique, crystal size
    distribution, various filters used, the sample mounting procedure, and the particular
                                                    9

    instrument employed. In some instances, new peaks may be observed or existing peaks may
    disappear, depending on the type of the instrument or the settings. As used herein, the term
    "peak" refers to a reflection having a relative height/intensity of at least about 4% of the
    maximum peak height/intensity. Moreover, instrument variation and other factors can affect
 5  the 2-theta values. Thus, peak assignments, such as those reported herein, can vary by plus or
    minus about 0.20 (2-theta), and the term "substantially" as used in the context of XRPD
    herein is meant to encompass the above-mentioned variations.
            In the same way, temperature readings in connection with DSC, TGA, or other
    thermal experiments can vary about ±3 'C depending on the instrument, particular settings,
 0  sample preparation, etc. Accordingly, a crystalline form reported herein having a DSC
    thermogram "substantially" as shown in any of the Figures is understood to accommodate
    such variation.
            At various places in the present specification, substituents of compounds of the
    invention may be disclosed in groups or in ranges. It is specifically intended that the
 5  invention include each and every individual subcombination of the members of such groups
    and ranges.
            It is intended that the compounds of the invention are stable. As used herein "stable"
    refers to a compound that is sufficiently robust to survive isolation to a useful degree of
    purity from a reaction mixture, and preferably capable of formulation into an efficacious
 '0 therapeutic agent.
            It is further appreciated that certain features of the invention, which are, for clarity,
    described in the context of separate embodiments, can also be provided in combination in a
    single embodiment. Conversely, various features of the invention which are, for brevity,
    described in the context of a single embodiment, can also be provided separately or in any
25  suitable subcombination.
            The compounds of the invention are further intended to include all possible geometric
    isomers. Cis and trans geometric isomers of the compounds of the present invention are
    described and may be isolated as a mixture of isomers or as separated isomeric forms. A
    bond in a structure diagram represented by a wavy line "Arv"            is intended to indicate that
30  the structure represents the cis or the trans isomer, or a mixture of the cis and trans isomers in
    any proportion.
                                                    10

            Compounds of the invention also include tautomeric forms. Tautomeric forms result
   from the swapping of a single bond with an adjacent double bond together with the
   concomitant migration of a proton.
            Compounds of the invention can also include all isotopes of atoms occurring in the
 5 intermediates or final compounds. Isotopes include those atoms having the same atomic
   number but different mass numbers. For example, isotopes of hydrogen include tritium and
   deuterium.
            In some embodiments, the compounds of the invention, and salts thereof, are
   substantially isolated. By "substantially isolated" is meant that the compound is at least
 0 partially or substantially separated from the environment in which it was formed or detected.
   Partial separation can include, for example, a composition enriched in the compound of the
   invention. Substantial separation can include compositions containing at least about 50%, at
   least about 60%. at least about 70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about
   95%, at least about 97%, or at least about 99% by weight of the compound of the invention,
 5 or salt thereof. Methods for isolating compounds and their salts are routine in the art.
            The present invention also includes salts of the compounds described herein. As used
   herein, "salts" refers to derivatives of the disclosed compounds wherein the parent compound
   is modified by converting an existing acid or base moiety to its salt form. Examples of salts
   include, but are not limited to, mineral acid (such as HCl, HBr, H2 SO 4 ) or organic acid (such
 0 as acetic acid, benzoic acid, trifluoroacetic acid) salts of basic residues such as amines; alkali
   (such as Li, Na, K, Mg, Ca) or organic (such as trialkylammonium) salts of acidic residues
   such as carboxylic acids; and the like. The salts of the present invention can be synthesized
   from the parent compound which contains a basic or acidic moiety by conventional chemical
   methods. Generally, such salts can be prepared by reacting the free acid or base forms of
25 these compounds with a stoichiometric amount of the appropriate base or acid in water or in
   an organic solvent, or in a mixture of the two; generally, nonaqueous media like ether, ethyl
   acetate, ethanol, isopropanol, or acetonitrile (ACN) are preferred.
            The "pharmaceutically acceptable salts" of the present invention include a subset of
   the "salts" described above which are, conventional non-toxic salts of the parent compound
30 formed, for example, from non-toxic inorganic or organic acids. Lists of suitable salts are
   found in Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences,         17 th ed., Mack Publishing Company, Easton,
   Pa., 1985, p. 1418 and Journalof PharmaceuticalScience, 66, 2 (1977), each of which is
   incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The phrase "pharmaceutically acceptable" is
   employed herein to refer to those compounds, materials, compositions, and/or dosage forms
                                                  11

    which are, within the scope of sound medical judgment, suitable for use in contact with the
    tissues of human beings and animals without excessive toxicity, irritation, allergic response,
    or other problem or complication, commensurate with a reasonable benefit/risk ratio.
 5  Methods of Synthesis
            The compounds of the present invention can be prepared in a variety of ways known
    to one skilled in the art of organic synthesis. The compounds of the present invention can be
    synthesized using the methods as hereinafter described below, together with synthetic
    methods known in the art of synthetic organic chemistry or variations thereon as appreciated
 0  by those skilled in the art.
            The compounds of this invention can be prepared from readily available starting
    materials using the following general methods and procedures. It will be appreciated that
    where typical or preferred process conditions (i.e., reaction temperatures, times, mole ratios
    of reactants, solvents, pressures., etc.) are given; other process conditions can also be used
 5  unless otherwise stated. Optimum reaction conditions may vary with the particular reactants
    or solvent used, but such conditions can be determined by one skilled in the art by routine
    optimization procedures.
            The processes described herein can be monitored according to any suitable method
    known in the art. For example, product formation can be monitored by spectroscopic means,
 '0 such as nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (e.g., 1H or       13 C), infrared spectroscopy,
    spectrophotometry (e.g., UV-visible), or mass spectrometry; or by chromatography such as
    high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) or thin layer chromatography. The
    compounds obtained by the reactions can be purified by any suitable method known in the
    art. For example, chromatography (medium pressure) on a suitable adsorbent (e.g., silica gel,
25  alumina and the like) HPLC, or preparative thin layer chromatography; distillation;
    sublimation, trituration, or recrystallization.
            Preparation of compounds can involve the protection and deprotection of various
    chemical groups. The need for protection and deprotection, and the selection of appropriate
    protecting groups can be readily determined by one skilled in the art. The chemistry of
30  protecting groups can be found, for example, in Wuts and Greene, Greene's Protective
    Groups in Organic Synthesis, 4 th Ed., John Wiley & Sons: New York, 2006, which is
    incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
            The reactions of the processes described herein can be carried out in suitable solvents
    which can be readily selected by one of skill in the art of organic synthesis. Suitable solvents
                                                    12

    can be substantially non-reactive with the starting materials (reactants), the intermediates, or
    products at the temperatures at which the reactions are carried out, i.e., temperatures which
    can range from the solvent's freezing temperature to the solvent's boiling temperature. A
    given reaction can be carried out in one solvent or a mixture of more than one solvent.
 5  Depending on the reaction step, suitable solvent(s) for that particular reaction step can be
    selected. Appropriate solvents include water, alkanes (such as pentanes, hexanes, heptanes,
    cyclohexane, etc., or a mixture thereof), aromatic solvents (such as benzene, toluene, xylene,
    etc.), alcohols (such as methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, etc.), ethers (such as dialkylethers,
    methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE), tetrahydrofuran (THF), dioxane, etc.), esters (such as ethyl
 0  acetate, butyl acetate, etc.), halogenated solvents (such as dichloromethane (DCM),
    chloroform, dichloroethane, tetrachloroethane), dimethylformamide (DMF),
    dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO), acetone, acetonitrile (ACN), hexamethylphosphoramide
    (HMPA) and N-methyl pyrrolidone (NMP). Such solvents can be used in either their wet or
    anhydrous forms.
 5           Resolution of racemic mixtures of compounds can be carried out by any of numerous
    methods known in the art. An example method includes fractional recrystallization using a
    "chiral resolving acid" which is an optically active, salt-forming organic acid. Suitable
    resolving agents for fractional recrystallization methods are, for example, optically active
    acids, such as the D and L forms of tartaric acid, diacetyltartaric acid, dibenzoyltartaric acid,
 'O mandelic acid, malic acid, lactic acid or the various optically active camphorsulfonic acids.
    Resolution of racemic mixtures can also be carried out by elution on a column packed with an
    optically active resolving agent (e.g., dinitrobenzoylphenylglycine). Suitable elution solvent
    composition can be determined by one skilled in the art.
             The compounds of the invention can be prepared, for example, using the reaction
25  pathways and techniques as described below.
             The processes and intermediates of the present invention are useful in the preparation
    of IDO inhibitors. A general scheme for the preparation of compounds F15 of the invention
    are described in Scheme 1.
                                                   13

                         H        N 0>=0                                   N         0>
              L1O-*4N       /          N              azide         3      N~'       N   O1       reduction
                      L0n, O                        reagent       N              N
                                                          -                 N   N            R2        K
                          N     N
                           F10            R3                                 F11        R3
                           H    N-0               0                 0 0                           N- 0 >=
                                  -,, N                  s
             H2N       n                            CI      NHPg         Pg1HNS-N       n
                                               2
                            O'               R       organic base                          N O'N            R
                            F12                                                          F13             R3
                                                        0
               amino              O          H       N                             0                   NOH
            deprotecting   HN 'N         n  N           N                                     H
               agent                H       n I/ \                    base     H2N    N      n/          N
                 M                               0'              R2     N                       N   N
                                          F14                  3                           F15               R2
                                                                                                         R3
                                                            Scheme I
           Referring now to Scheme 1, the invention provides a process for preparing a
   compound of Formula F15, or a salt thereof, wherein R 2 is Cl, Br, CF 3, CH 3 , or CN; R 3 is H
 5 or F; and n is 1 or 2, by reacting a compound of Formula F13, or a salt thereof, wherein Pgt is
   an amino protecting group, with an amino deprotecting agent (Step M) to afford a compound
   of Formula F14, or a salt thereof; and reacting the compound of Formula F14 with a base
   (Step N) to afford the compound of Formula F15. The compound of Formula F15 can be
   purified by trituration or recrystallization using solvents such as water, ethanol, MTBE or a
 0 combination thereof.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is Br, R3 is F, and n is 1.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is Br, R3 is F, and n is 2.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is Cl, R3 is F, and n is 1.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is Cl, R3 is F, and n is 2.
15         In some embodiments, R 2 is CF 3 , R3 is F, and n is 1.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is CF3, R 3 is F. and n is 2.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is CF 3, R3 is H, and n is 1.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is CF 3, R3 is H, and n is 2.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is CN, R3 is F, and n is 1.
20         Amino protecting groups are regularly used in organic synthesis to prevent unwanted
   reactions of an amino group while performing a desired transformation. Amino protecting
   groups allow easy covalent attachment to a nitrogen atom as well as selective cleavage from
                                                              14

    the nitrogen atom. Various amino protecting groups, classified broadly as alkoxycarbonyl
    (such as ethoxycarbonyl, tert-butoxycarbonyl (Boc), benzyloxycarbonyl (Cbz), 9
    fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl (Fmoc), and the like), acyl (such as acetyl (Ac), benzoyl (Bz),
    and the like), sulfonyl (such as methanesulfonyl, trifluoromethanesulfonyl, and the like),
 5  arylalkyl (such as benzyl, diphenylmethyl, triphenylmethyl (trityl), and the like), alkenylalkyl
    (such as allyl, prenyl, and the like), diarylmethyleneyl (such as (C 6H5) 2 C=N, and the like),
    and silyl (such as tert-butyldimethylsilyl, triisopropylsilyl, and the like), are known to one
    skilled in the art. The chemistry of amino protecting groups can be found in Wuts and
    Greene, Greene's Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, 4 th Ed., pp 696-926, John Wiley &
 0  Sons: New York, 2006. In some embodiments, Pg' can be alkoxycarbonyl (such as tert
    butoxycarbonyl).
             The amino protecting groups described above can be conveniently removed using
    many available amino deprotecting agents that are specific to the various groups mentioned
    above without affecting other desired portions of the compound. The tert-butoxycarbonyl
 5  group can be removed (e.g., hydrolyzed) from the nitrogen atom, for example, by treatment
    with an acid (such as trifluoroacetic acid, toluenesulfonic acid, hydrochloric acid, and the
    like); a combination of reagents (e.g., mixture of acetyl chloride and methanol) known to
    generate an acid; or a Lewis acid (e.g., BF 3 -Et2O). The benzyloxycarbonyl group can be
    removed (e.g., hydrogenolyzed) from the nitrogen atom, for example, by treatment with
 '0 hydrogen and a catalyst (such as palladium on carbon). In some embodiments, the amino
    deprotecting agent can be trifluoroacetic acid. In some embodiments, the amino deprotecting
    agent contains trifluoroacetic acid and >0.5% by volume of water, e.g., >1.0% by volume of
    water, >1.5% by volume of water, >2.0% by volume of water, from about 2% to about 10%
    by volume of water, from about 10% to about 20% by volume of water, or from about 20% to
25  about 50% by volume of water. In some embodiments, the amino deprotecting agent can be a
    mixture of trifluoroacetic acid and water in a volumetric ratio of about 98:2.      In some
    embodiments, the amino deprotecting agent can be hydrochloric acid, optionally in a solvent
    (such as water, THF, or dioxane). In such embodiments, the hydrochloric acid can be present
    in a concentration of about 4 N, e.g., about 1 N, about 2 N, about 3 N, about 5 N, about 6 N,
30  about 7 N, about 8 N, about 9 N, or about 10 N. In some embodiments, the deprotection can
    be performed in an alcohol (such as isopropanol). In some embodiments, the Step M
    (Scheme 1) can be performed at a temperature from about -10 'C to about 60 'C, e.g.., from
    about -10 'C to about 0 'C, from about 0 'C to about 25 'C, from about 25 'C to about 45 'C,
    or from about 45 'C to about 60 'C.
                                                   15

            A base can be used for the conversion (e.g., hydrolysis) of the oxadiazolone ring in
    F14 to reveal the amidoxime in F15, optionally in a solvent (Step N, Scheme 1). The
    protection of the amidoxime as the oxadiazolone can be useful to prevent adverse reactions of
    the hydroxyl group or that of the amidoxime as a whole. The base can be either an organic
 5  base such as an acyclic amine (e.g., triethylamine, diisopropylethylamine (DIPEA), etc.) or a
    cyclic amine (e.g., pyrrolidine, piperidine, etc.); or an inorganic base such as alkali (e.g.,
    NaOH, LiOH, KOH, Mg(OH)2, etc.). The base can be made available in the form of a resin
    (such as Amberlite® and the like). In some further embodiments, the base can be provided in
    the form of a solution in water such as about 2N solution (e.g., about 0.5N solution, about IN
 0  solution, about 1.5N solution, about 2.5N solution, from about 3N to about 5N solution, from
    about 5N to about ION solution). In some embodiments, the base is an alkali metal
    hydroxide (such as, sodium hydroxide). In some embodiments, the base can be 2N NaOH
    solution in water. In some embodiments, the solvent can be methanol or tetrahydrofuran
    (THF). In some embodiments, the Step N (Scheme 1) can be performed at a temperature
 5  from about -10 'C to about 60 'C, e.g., from about -10 'C to about 0 'C, from about 0 'C to
    about 25 'C, from about 25 0C to about 45 C, or from about 45 'C to about 60 'C.
            In Step L (Scheme 1), the compound of Formula F13 can be obtained by treating a
    compound of Formula F12, or a salt thereof, with Pg 1 -NH-sulfonyl chloride, optionally in a
    solvent, followed by treatment of the resulting mixture with an organic base to afford the
 '0 compound of Formula F13. This Step L (Scheme 1) transforms a primary amine F12 to a
    sulfonyl urea F13 using a protected amino-sulfonyl chloride (Pgl-NH-S02Cl). The protected
    amino-sulfonyl chloride can be prepared and immediately used in the reaction with F12. The
    protecting group could be selected from any of the protecting groups known in the art for
    protecting amines or sulfonamides (supra). In some embodiments, Pgi can be an
25  alkoxycarbonyl group (such as tert-butoxycarbonyl). In such embodiments, the
    alkoxycarbonyl NH-sulfonyl chloride can be obtained by the reaction of an alcohol (such as,
    ethanol, tert-butyl alcohol and the like) with chlorosulfonyl isocyanate (ClS(O)2NCO).
    Appropriate solvents for this reaction include, but are not limited to, halogenated solvents
    such as dichloromethane and the like. The organic base can be any base that serves to
30  neutralize the HCI generated during the reaction of the primary amine such as F12 and the
    protected amino-sulfonyl chloride. The organic base can include acyclic tertiary amines such
    as tri(CI-6)alkylamine (e.g., triethylamine, diisopropylethylamine (DIPEA) and the like),
    cyclic tertiary amines (e.g., N-methyl piperidine, 1,4-diazabicyclo [2.2.2] octane (DABCO)
    and the like). In some embodiments, the organic base can be triethylamine. In some
                                                  16

    embodiments, this step can be performed at a temperature from about -10 'C to about 60 'C,
    e.g., from about -10 'C to about 0 'C, from about 0 'C to about 25 'C, from about 25 'C to
    about 45 'C, or from about 45 'C to about 60 'C.
             Organic compounds can be reduced to a lower oxidizing state by using reducing
 5  agents. Reduction usually involves addition of hydrogen atoms or removal of oxygen atoms
    from a group. Organic azides such as F11 can be reduced to amines such as F12 (Step K,
    Scheme 1) by the addition of hydrogen, either in the form of elemental hydrogen or using a
    hydride reagent (such as NaBH 4. LiAlH 4 and the like); using triphenylphosphine; or using a
    combination of sodium iodide, chlorotrimethylsilane, and methanol. In some embodiments,
 0  the compound of Formula F12 can be obtained by reducing a compound of Formula F 11, or a
    salt thereof. In some embodiments, the reducing can be carried out in the presence of sodium
    iodide, chlorotrimethylsilane, and methanol. In some embodiments, the molar ratio of
    sodium iodide and chlorotrimethylsilane can be about 1.0, e.g., about 0.9, about 0.95, about
    1.0, about 1.05, or about 1.1. In some embodiments, chlorotrimethylsilane can be added to
 5  the mixture of F 11, sodium iodide and methanol as a solution in methanol. In some
    embodiments, Step K (Scheme 1) can be performed at about room temperature, e.g., from
    about 10 'C to about 50 0 C, from about 15 'C to about 40 'C, from about 20 'C to about 30
     C, or from about 25 'C to about 30 'C.
             The amino compounds F12, in some cases, may prove challenging to obtain in
 '0 substantially pure form as determined by HPLC or NMR spectroscopy and the like. While
    not intending to be bound by theory, it is believed that some of these amines might be
    difficult to purify by silica gel chromatography due to increased high affinity to silica gel or
    due to unwanted degradation during purification. In such embodiments, referring now to
    Scheme 2, the compound of Formula F12 can be purified by reacting the compound of
25  Formula F12 with an amino protecting agent to afford a compound of Formula F12', or a salt
    thereof, wherein Pg 2N is a protected amine. This protection (Step K') can be followed by
    purifying the compound of Formula F12' to provide a purified compound of Formula F12'
    and reacting the purified compound of Formula F12' with an amino deprotecting agent (Step
    K") to provide a purified compound of Formula F12. Amino protecting agents and amino
30  deprotecting agents are known to one skilled in the art, such as those in Wuts and Greene
    (ibid). In some embodiments, the amino protecting agent is di-t-butyl dicarbonate (Boc20).
    In such embodiments, Pg 2N is tert-butoxy carbonyl-NH. In such embodiments, the amino
    deprotecting agent is a reagent capable of removing the Boc protecting group (supra). In
    such embodiments, the amino deprotecting agent is an acid (e.g., hydrochloric acid,
                                                  17

   trifluoroacetic acid and the like), optionally in a solvent (such as water, THF, or dioxane). In
   some embodiments, the hydrochloric acid can be present in a concentration of about 4N, e.g.,
   about IN, about 2N, about 3N, about 5N, about 6N, about 7N, about 8N, about 9N, or about
   ION. In some embodiments, the deprotection can be performed in an alcohol (such as
 5 isopropanol). In some embodiments, step K' or K" can be performed at a temperature from
   about -10 'C to about 60 'C, e.g., from about -10 'C to about 0 'C, from about 0 'C to about
   25 'C, from about 25 'C to about 45 'C, or from about 45 'C to about 60 'C. Appropriate
   purification methods are known to one skilled in the art and can include chromatography,
   crystallization, sublimation and the like. In some embodiments, purification can be
 0 performed by chromatography on silica gel. The purity of the compounds, in general, are
   determined by physical methods such as measuring the melting point (in case of a solid),
   obtaining a NMR spectrum, or performing a HPLC separation. If the melting point
   decreases, if unwanted signals in the NMR spectrum are decreased, or if extraneous peaks in
   an HPLC trace are removed, the compound can be said to have been purified. In some
 5 embodiments, the compounds are substantially purified.
                  NH2 H       N1            )                     Pg2 N         N'O
                     n-  K(~NN   N
                                 NN           agent/ protecting
                                            )Amino
                                              a-                        nI        N
                        N'O'N         R2   2) purification                 N, N       2
                          F12                                           F12'        R
                                         Amino deprotecting agent
                                                     K"
                                                     Scheme 2
            In some embodiments, the compound of Formula F 11 (Scheme 1) can be obtained by
   treating a compound of Formula FIO, or a salt thereof, wherein L' can be selected from
   alkylsulfonyl (such as methanesulfonyl), haloalkylsulfonyl (such as
   trifluoromethanesulfonyl), arylsulfonyl (such as toluenesulfonyl) and the like; with an azide
20 reagent to afford the compound of Formula Fll (Step J). In some embodiments, L' is
   alkylsulfonyl. Azide reagents include any reagent capable of producing a nucleophilic azide
   ion. Examples of azide reagents include alkali metal azides (such as sodium azide, potassium
   azide, etc.). In some optional embodiments, the azide reagent such as sodium azide can be
   used in combination with sodium iodide. Appropriate solvents for this transformation are
25 polar solvents including DMF, DMSO, NMP and the like. In some embodiments, Step J can
   be carried out in DMF. Step J can be carried out at an elevated temperature e.g., from about
   40 'C to about 100 'C, from about 50 'C to about 90 'C, or from about 60 'C to about 80 'C.
                                                        18

    In some embodiments, Step J can be carried out at about 50 'C. In some embodiments, Step
    J can be carried out at about 85 'C.
             The compound of Formula F1O, or a salt thereof, can be obtained in a sequence of
    steps shown in Scheme 3. The preparation of the intermediate, 4-amino-N'-hydroxy- 1,2,5
 5  oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide F2, has been described in J. Heterocycl. Chem. (1965), 2,
    253, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety, and its conversion to the chloro
    oxime F3 has been described in Synth. Comrmun. (1988), 18, 1427, which is incorporated
    herein by reference in its entirety. Amines (such as primary or secondary amines including
    amines that contain protected functionalities, e.g., ethyl amine, 2-methoxyethylamine or
 0  dimethylamine) can be coupled to the chloro oxime F3, optionally in a solvent (such as ethyl
    acetate), followed by addition of an organic base (such as triethylamine or DIPEA to quench
    the HCI generated in the reaction) to provide amidoxime compounds F4. Rearrangement of
    the compounds such as F4, to transpose the amino group on the ring carbon and the amino
    group on the oxime carbon, to provide compounds F5 can be achieved by the treatment of F4
 5  with a base (such as KOH, NaOH, LiOH, Mg(OH)2, Al(OH) 3 and the like), optionally in a
    solvent (such as water, ethanol, ethylene glycol and the like), and refluxing the reaction
    mixture at elevated temperature e.g., about 70 'C, about 80 'C, about 90 'C, about 100 'C,
    about 110 'C, about 120 'C, about 130 'C, about 140 'C, about 150 'C, about 160 'C, about
     170 'C, about 180 'C, about 190 'C, or about 200 'C. The amidoxime F5 can again be
 '0 activated as a chloro oxime F6 by the addition of F5 to an aqueous acidic mixture containing
    hydrochloric acid, optionally including acetic acid. In this process for the conversion of F5 to
    F6, the acidic mixture of F5 can be heated to a temperature of about 45 'C, such as about 30
    'C, about 40 'C, about 50 'C, or about 60 'C to achieve dissolution. Sodium chloride can be
    added to this solution and then treated with a nitrite reagent, which can optionally be
25  provided as an aqueous solution, at a temperature below about 0 'C, such as below about -10
    'C, below about -5 'C, below about 5 'C, or below about 10 'C. The nitrite reagent is one
    capable of providing a nitrite anion. Nitrite reagents include alkali metal nitrite (e.g., sodium
    nitrite, potassium nitrite and the like) and organo nitrites (e.g., tetraethylammonium nitrite)
    which includes an organic cation. In some embodiments, ethyl acetate, THF or dioxane can
30  be used as a co-solvent. The chloro oxime F6 can be coupled with aromatic amines such as
    anilines, optionally in a polar solvent (such as methanol, water, ethanol and the like) at
    elevated temperatures such as about 50 'C, about 60 'C, about 70 'C, about 80 'C, about 90
    'C, about 100 'C, about 110 'C, or about 120 'C, optionally in the presence of an inorganic
    base (such as KHCO 3, NaHCO 3) to provide arylamidoxime F7. In some embodiments, the
                                                   19

  inorganic base can be provided in the form of an aqueous solution. In some embodiments,
  the inorganic base can be added to the reaction mixture at an elevated temperature. The
  amidoxime functionality of F7 can then be protected as an oxadiazolone using 1,1'-carbonyl
  diimidazole (CDI) in a solvent (such as ethyl acetate, dioxane, THF and the like) at elevated
5 temperatures such as about 50 'C, about 60 'C, about 70 'C, about 80 'C, about 90 'C, or
  about 100 'C. The methoxy group of F8 can then be converted to a hydroxyl group in F9
  using a methoxy deprotecting agent known to one skilled in the art, such as those in Wuts and
  Greene, Greene's Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis, 4 th Ed., pp 24-30, John Wiley &
  Sons: New York, 2006. For example, by addition of boron tribromide to a cold (such as from
0 about -78 'C to about 25 'C, e.g., from about -78 'C to about 10 'C, from about -78 'C to
  about 0 C, from about -78 'C to about -10 'C, from about 0 'C to about 25 'C, or from about
  0 'C to about 10 C) solution of F8, optionally in a solvent such as a halogenated solvent
  (e.g., DCM, chloroform and the like) or ethyl acetate. The primary hydroxyl group in F9 can
  subsequently be activated as a leaving group      10- (see F1O) by sequential treatment with
5 L1 Cl, optionally in a solvent (such as ethyl acetate or DCM), and an organic base to mop up
  the generated HCl (such as triethylamine or DIPEA). L', for example, can be selected from
  alkylsulfonyl (e.g., methanesulfonyl), haloalkylsulfonyl (e.g., trifluoromethanesulfonyl),
  arylsulfonyl (e.g., toluenesulfonyl) and the like. The compound FI      can then be treated with
  any nucleophile for displacement (such as by SN 2 mechanism) of the leaving group LO.
                                                20

                                                            NOH                                         N9 OH
        NCyCN         1) NaNO 2/HCI     ,    H2 N           IH          1) AcOH/HCI         H2N            I
                      2) NH2OH (aq.)                /\             2    2) NaCI/NaNO 2           /
                                                                                 B              N     N
                             A                    N' ON
             F1                                        F2                                            F3
                                                      OH                                                  NOH
        1) H 3 CO         NH2  ,     2C                                    base
                                      H2 N           N{?OH                          HHHC0 -C . n              NHNH2
                                                                                                                  2
        2) base                           /\H                                A       H      v
                  C      CN'OND             00D0                                                  N     N
                                                   F4                                             F5
                                                         ,OH                                                   ,OH         R3
         1) HCI                             H                   H2 N            R2                H          N
                                            N             CFH3 CO--(
                                                          Cl-HC                                  N               N         R2
         2) NaCI/NaNO 2                   n                                 F                    n               N
                 E                            N     N                                                N,ON
                                             F6                                                           F7
                                 H            N-0 )=oH                                                        N0)
                                 N        N                             Methoxy                t    N             N
         CDI/A       H3CONn                                      deprotecting agent      HO        n
                                                                            H                         N     N
                                    N      N                 2
            G
                                                        3                                               F9            R3
                                       F8              R
                                                 N-0I
                                      N          N
          Ll-Cl/base       L10      nN
                     i,                    NO NR
                                       F10                R3
                                                             Scheme 3
        Alternately, the compound of Formula F12 can be obtained through a sequence of
steps depicted in Scheme 4.
                   NOH                                          N-O                                   H         NO
       H2 N           NH
                               NH= CDI            H2 N               N
                                                                     NTAA          TFAA      FN CN
           N      N                    G.               N2
                                                        NO'N                                      02
                                                                                                  O     NO'N               R2
              F21          R                               F26           R3                               F22          R3
                      OHRC1                                     0N10                      H2 NH-
               F2 5     ~     Pg~N{~
                               3N                                                                                   N2
                  PgN'O'RN                                           R2                                N'N                 R2
            coupling                          N,    N     /                                                N        /
             reagent                                                 R 2R
                                                 F24             3                                         F12          R3
                                                                                3
                                                                              Pg N        RC1
                                                                          (C6H5)3NH TFA/(i-Pr) 3SiH
                                                                          (C6H5)2=N       TFA
                                                             Scheme 4
                                                                21

            Referring now to Scheme 4, in some embodiments, the compound of Formula F12
   can be obtained by reacting a compound of Formula F24, or a salt thereof, wherein Pg 3N is a
   protected amine (e.g., (C 6H5) 3 C-NH, (C 6 H5 )2 C=N and the like); with an amino deprotecting
   agent to afford the compound of Formula F12. Treatment of a compound F24 to replace
 5 Pg 3N with NH2 (Step   Q) can  be accomplished by methods for the deprotection of particular
   amine protecting groups known to one skilled in the art, such as those in Wuts and Greene,
   Greene's Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis,      4 th Ed., pp 696-926, John Wiley & Sons:
   New York, 2006. In some embodiments, when the Pg 3N is (C 6H5 )2 C=N, the deprotecting
   agent can be: an acid such as an organic acid (e.g., trifluoroacetic acid, methanesulfonic acid
 0 and the like) or an inorganic acid (e.g., hydrochloric acid); hydrogen and palladium; or acidic
   hydroxylamine (NH 2OH). In some embodiments, when the Pg 3N is (C6H5)3C-NH, the
   deprotecting agent can include an organic acid (such as trifluoroacetic acid methanesulfonic
   acid and the like) and optionally an organosilane; hydrogen and palladium; or sodium in
   liquid ammonia. Organosilanes are compounds that contain at least one Si-H bond and the
 5 rest of the groups attached to silicon are alkyl, aryl or a combination thereof. Examples of
   organosilanes include trialkylsilane (e.g., tri(isopropyl)silane)), triarylsilane (e.g.,
   triphenylsilane) or diphenylmethylsilane. The step     Q can    be performed at a temperature from
   about -10 'C to about 60 'C, e.g., from about -10 'C to about 0 'C, from about 0 'C to about
   25 'C, from about 25 'C to about 45 'C, or from about 45 'C to about 60 'C.
 0          Compounds F24 which are protected secondary amines can be prepared by the
   Mitsunobu reaction of alcohols F25 with protected primary amines F22 in the presence of a
   coupling reagent (Step P). The coupling reagent can be a combination of a tertiary phosphine
   such as triarylphosphine (e.g., triphenylphosphine) or trialkylphosphine (e.g.,
   tributylphosphine) and a dialkyl azodicarboxylate. Dialkyl azodicarboxylates possess a
25 general structure: ROOC-N=N-COOR, where R can be an alkyl group (e.g., diisopropyl
   azodicarboxylate, diethyl azodicarboxylate, or di-p-chlorobenzyl azodicarboxylate). While
   not intending to be bound by theory, it is believed that amine protection with trifluoroacetyl
   moiety (such as in F22) prevents side reactions and improves the yield of the secondary
   amine F24. The hydroxyl group of alcohols such as F25 can be activated in the presence of
30 the coupling reagent. The amine nucleophile can displace the activated hydroxyl group to
   form the secondary amine. The Mitsunobu reaction can be performed in a solvent such as an
   ether e.g., THF, dioxane, dialkyl ether and the like; halogenated solvents e.g.,
   dichloromethane, chloroform and the like; non-polar solvents e.g., benzene, toluene and the
   like; polar-aprotic solvents such as DMF, HMPA and the like. In some embodiments, the
                                                  22

   compound of Formula F24 can be obtained by treating a compound of Formula F22, or a salt
   thereof, with a compound of Formula F25, or a salt thereof, and a coupling reagent to provide
   the compound of Formula F24. In some embodiments, this step can be performed at a
   temperature from about -10 'C to about 60 'C, e.g., from about -10 'C to about 0 'C, from
 5 about 0 'C to about 25 'C, from about 25 'C to about 45 'C, or from about 45 'C to about 60
   OC.
           Compounds F22 can be made by a two step process (Steps G' and 0) from
   compounds F21. Compounds F21 can be treated with 1,1'-carbonyl diimidazole (CDI),
   optionally in a solvent (such as ethyl acetate or THF), at an elevated temperature such as
 0 about 50 'C, e.g., about 60 'C, about 65 'C, about 70 'C, about 80 'C, or about 90 0C, to
   convert the amidoxime in compounds F21 to oxadiazolone present in compounds F26. These
   compounds F26 in turn can be treated with trifluoroacetic anhydride, optionally in a solvent
   (such as DCM, THF, dioxane, or ethyl acetate) in the presence of an organic base (such as
   pyridine, triethylamine, DIPEA and the like) to provide compounds F22. In some
 5 embodiments, the compound of Formula F22 can be obtained by treating a compound of
   Formula F21, or a salt thereof, with carbonyl diimidazole (CDI) to afford a compound of
   Formula F26, or a salt thereof, and treating the compound of Formula F26 with trifluoroacetic
   anhydride to afford the compound of Formula F22.
                        H         >=o      H3CO-4 OH                   H
                 FC     N        N              F25' nN
                     0   N   N          2  coupling reagent              N 0 N         R
                           F22      R3                                     F8      R3
20                                               Scheme 5
           Referring now to Scheme 5 (Step P') and based on the above description of
   Mitsunobu reaction, another aspect of the invention provides a process for preparing a
   compound of Formula F8, or a salt thereof, wherein, R2, R3, and n are defined herein;
   including reacting a compound of Formula F22, or a salt thereof, and a compound of Formula
25 F25', or a salt thereof, with a coupling reagent, optionally in a solvent (such as THF, dialkyl
   ether, or dichloromethane), to provide the compound of Formula F8. In some embodiments,
   this step can be performed at a temperature from about -10 'C to about 60 'C, e.g., from
   about -10 'C to about 0 'C, from about 0 'C to about 25 'C, from about 25 'C to about 45 'C,
   or from about 45 'C to about 60 'C.
                                                   23

                                                       0
                            HH2N n                H2N-S-NH2,     H2N          H
                       H N'         Il N>=                     0 H 2 S~~N            I   =
                             N 0 1N          R_       base             H        N  N         R
                                                   R2 R                                      R~
                                                                                              2
                               F12        R3                                  F14          3
                                                         ~OH     R
                   base                O      H       N
                    N.         H2N'    'N    n           N       R2
                                        H       N,0 I    H
                                                F15
                                                      Scheme 6
           Scheme 6 delineates an alternative route for the introduction of the sulfonamide group
   to the amino compound F12. Treatment of F12 with sulfamide in the presence of a base
 5 (Step R) such as an organic base which can be a heterocyclic base (e.g., pyridine), or a
   trialkylamine (e.g., triethylamine, DIPEA and the like), each of which can optionally be used
   as a solvent for this transformation, can provide sulfonyl ureas such as F14. This reaction can
   be carried out at elevated temperatures such as about 130 'C, e.g., about 100 'C, about 110
   'C, about 120 'C, about 130 'C, or about 140 'C. Such heating can be favorably applied
 0 using microwave irradiation. Microwave irradiation can be performed in a commercial
   microwave oven (e.g., the Initiator3, available from Biotage) operating in a single mode
   fashion. Compounds F14 containing the oxadiazolone ring can be deprotected (e.g.,
   hydrolyzed) to the desired amidoximes F15 in the presence of a base (Step N'). The base can
   be either an organic base such as an acyclic amine (e.g., triethylamine, diisopropylethylamine
 5 (DIPEA), etc.) or a cyclic amine (e.g., pyrrolidine, piperidine, etc.); or an inorganic base such
   as alkali (e.g., NaOH, LiOH, KOH, Mg(OH)2, etc.). The base can be made available in the
   form of a resin (such as Amberlite® and the like). In some further embodiments, the base can
   be provided in the form of a solution in water such as about 2N solution (e.g., about 0.5N
   solution, about IN solution, about 1.5N solution, about 2.5N solution, from about 3N to about
20 5N solution, from about 5N to about ION solution). In some embodiments, the base can be
   an alkali metal hydroxide (such as, sodium hydroxide). In some embodiments, the base can
   be a 2N NaOH solution in water. In some embodiments, the solvent can be methanol or
   tetrahydrofuran (THF). In some embodiments, the deprotection can be performed at a
   temperature from about -10 'C to about 60 'C, e.g., from about -10 'C to about 0 'C, from
25 about 0 'C to about 25      CC,  from about 25     CC  to about 45 'C, or from about 45 'C to about 60
   'C. Hence, this aspect of the invention provides a process for preparing a compound of
   Formula F15, or a salt thereof, wherein R2 , R3 , and n, are as defined herein; including
                                                        24

   reacting a compound of Formula F12, or a salt thereof, with sulfamide and an organic base to
   afford a compound of Formula F14, or a salt thereof, and reacting the compound of Formula
   F14, or a salt thereof, with a base to afford the compound of Formula F15.
           The present invention further provides a compound of Formula F9, F12, and F14, or a
 5 salt thereof, wherein R 2 is Cl, Br, CF3, CH3, or CN; R 3 is H or F; and n is 1 or 2.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is Br, R3 is F, and n is 1.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is Br, R3 is F, and n is 2.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is Cl, R 3 is F, and n is 1.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is Cl, R3 is F, and n is 2.
 0         In some embodiments, R 2 is CF 3 , R 3 is F, and n is 1.
           In some embodiments, R2 is CF 3, R3 is F, and n is 2.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is CF3, R3 is H, and n is 1.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is CF3, R3 is H, and n is 2.
           In some embodiments, R 2 is CH3 , R3 is F, and n is 1.
 5         In some embodiments, R2 is CN, R3 is F, and n is 1.
                     NH 2         N-0                                       N
                          n                          CH 3SO 2HN     n          N
                            N   N              S                      N,  N
                                                 R20                          \    R2
                                                                                  3
                                         3                            F20        R
                              F12       R
                                                                  OH       R3
                                    base                 N        Na
                                    b      CH3   N      n         N        R2
                                      N          H        N    N
                                                           F19
                                                Scheme 7
           Referring now to Scheme 7, compounds F19 can be obtained from primary amino
   compounds F12 by treatment with methanesulfonyl chloride (Step S), optionally in a solvent
20 such as ethyl acetate, halogenated solvents (e.g., dichloromethane, chloroform and the like)
   or ethereal solvents (THF, diethyl ether, dioxane and the like), in the presence of an organic
   base (to mop up the generated HCl) such as tri(C1-6)alkylamine (e.g., triethylamine, DIPEA
   and the like), or pyridine to afford sulfonamides F20. The methanesulfonyl group can be
   replaced with other alkylsulfonyl (e.g., ethylsulfonyl), haloalkylsulfonyl (e.g.,
25 trifluoromethanesulfonyl), arylsulfonyl (e.g., toluenesulfonyl) and the like, without altering
   the procedures. In some embodiments, this step can be performed at a temperature from
   about -10 'C to about 60 'C, e.g., from about -10 'C to about 0 'C, from about 0 'C to about
                                                  25

   25 'C, from about 25 'C to about 45 'C, or from about 45 'C to about 60 'C. The
   sulfonamide compounds F20 containing the oxadiazolone ring can be deprotected (e.g.,
   hydrolyzed) to the desired amidoximes F19 in the presence of a base (Step N"). The base can
   be either an organic base such as an acyclic amine (e.g., triethylamine, diisopropylethylamine
5  (DIPEA), etc.) or a cyclic amine (e.g., pyrrolidine, piperidine, etc.); or an inorganic base such
   as alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide (e.g., NaOH, LiOH, KOH,
   Mg(OH)2, etc.). The base can be made available in the form of a resin (such as Amberlite*
   and the like). In some further embodiments, the base can be provided in the form of a
   solution in water such as about 2N solution (e.g., about 0.5N solution, about IN solution,
0  about 1.5N solution, about 2.5N solution, from about 3N to about 5N solution, from about 5N
   to about ION solution). In some embodiments, the base is an alkali metal hydroxide (e.g.,
   sodium hydroxide). In some embodiments, the base can be 2N NaOH solution in water. In
   some embodiments, the solvent can be methanol or tetrahydrofuran (THF). In some
   embodiments, the deprotection can be performed at a temperature from about -10 'C to about
5  60 'C, e.g., from about -10 'C to about 0 'C, from about 0 'C to about 25 'C, from about 25
   'C to about 45 'C, or from about 45 'C to about 60 'C. Accordingly, another aspect of the
   invention provides a process for preparing a compound of Formula F19, or a salt thereof,
   wherein R2, R3, and n, are as defined herein; including reacting a compound of Formula F12,
   or a salt thereof, with methanesulfonyl chloride in the presence of an organic base to afford a
'0 compound of Formula F20, or a salt thereof, and reacting the compound of Formula F20 with
   a base to afford the compound of Formula F19. In some embodiments, the base can be an
   alkali metal hydroxide such as sodium hydroxide (e.g., 2N NaOH).
                                                26

                               NHBoc MsCI                            NHBoc    acid                   NH2
                        *'n             S-,     CHS0,N '-'         NH         M       CHSO 2HN (.}NH
                         F40                                 F41                              F33
                               N9 OH                              N0H
                  H2 N           I     1) F33       H2 N             N(,NHSO      2 Me   base
                       N'    N        2) base            N     N                          D
                            F3                                     F16
                                                rOH                                                N PrOH
                                    H         I        1) HCI                              HN      N
                 CH3SO2HN>n                     NH 2 2) NaNO 2/NaCI         CH       ,    n           C
                                                    N,      N                 ~N,0                N
                                       NO'N                    E'
                                 F17                                                        F18
                     R3                                                    OH         R3
                                   27          0 0             H         N
                                 NH 2       CH3     N         n            N
                                                                 N     N
                             FH
                                                                  F19
                                                           Scheme 8
           Aryl or alkylsulfonamides (e.g., methanesulfonamides F19) can be obtained by the
   sequence of steps shown in Scheme 8. Mono-protected 1,n-diamines such as F40 (e.g.,
 5 commercially available N-(aminoalkyl)(t-butoxy)carboxamide) can be treated with sulfonyl
   chlorides such as arylsulfonyl chlorides or alkylsulfonyl chlorides (e.g., methanesulfonyl
   chloride), optionally in a solvent such as ethyl acetate, halogenated solvents (e.g.,
   dichloromethane, chloroform and the like) or ethereal solvents (THF, diethyl ether, dioxane
   and the like), in the presence of an organic base (to mop up the generated HCI) such as
 0 triethylamine, pyridine, DIPEA and the like, to provide sulfonamides F41 (Step S'). The
   protecting group on mono-protected 1,n-diamines F40 may be selected from the various
   amino protecting groups and a suitable deprotection conditions can be appropriately selected
   (supra)to afford amine F33 (Step M'). In some embodiments, protecting group can be
   alkoxycarbonyl (such as tert-butoxycarbonyl, Boc). In such embodiments, the amino
15 deprotecting agent can be an acid e.g., hydrochloric acid or trifluoroacetic acid, optionally in
   a solvent (such as dioxane).
           The preparation of chloro oxime F3 has been described in Synth. Common. (1988),
   18, 1427, which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Amines (such as primary
   or secondary amines including amines that contain protected functionalities, e.g., ethyl amine,
20 2-methoxyethylamine, dimethylamine or F33) can be coupled to the chloro oxime F3,
   optionally in a solvent (such as ethyl acetate or ethanol), followed by addition of an organic
   base (such as triethylamine or DIPEA to quench the HCI generated in the reaction) to provide
                                                             27

    amidoxime compounds F16 (Step C'). In some embodiments, this step can be performed at a
    temperature from about -10 'C to about 60 'C, e.g., from about -10 'C to about 0 'C, from
    about 0 'C to about 25 'C, from about 25 'C to about 45 'C, or from about 45 'C to about 60
    'C. Rearrangement of the compounds such as F16 to transpose the amino group on the ring
 5  carbon and the amino group on the oxime carbon to provide compounds such as F17 (Step
    D') can be achieved by the treatment of F16 with a base (such as KOH, NaOH, LiOH,
    Mg(OH)2, Al(OH) 3 and the like), optionally in a solvent (such as water, ethanol, ethylene
    glycol and the like), and refluxing the reaction mixture at elevated temperature e.g., about 70
    'C, about 80 'C, about 90 C., about 100 'C, about 110 'C, about 120 'C, about 130 'C, about
 0  140 'C, about 150 'C, about 160 'C, about 170 'C, about 180 'C, about 190 'C, or about 200
    'C. The amidoxime F17 can again be activated as a chloro oxime F18 by the addition of F17
    to an aqueous acidic mixture containing hydrochloric acid, optionally including acetic acid
    (Step E'). In this process for the conversion of F17 to F18, the acidic mixture of F17 can be
    heated to temperature about 45 'C, such as about 30 'C, about 40 'C, about 50 'C, or about
 5  60 'C to achieve dissolution. Sodium chloride can be added to this solution and treated with
    a nitrite reagent, which can optionally be provided as an aqueous solution, at a temperature
    below about 0 'C such as below about -10 'C, below about -5 'C, below about 5 'C, or below
    about 10 'C. The nitrite reagent is one capable of providing a nitrite anion. Nitrite reagents
    include alkali metal nitrite (e.g., sodium nitrite, potassium nitrite and the like) and organo
 '0 nitrites (e.g., tetraethylammonium nitrite) which includes an organic cation. In some
    embodiments, ethyl acetate, THF or dioxane can be used as a co-solvent. The substitution of
    the chloride in F18 with aromatic amines such as anilines F27, optionally in a polar solvent
    (such as methanol, water, ethanol and the like), at room temperature can afford
    methanesulfonamides F19 (Step F'). In some embodiments, temperatures such as about 10
25  'C, about 20 'C, about 30 'C, about 40 'C, or about 50 'C can be employed. This reaction
    can be optionally carried out in the presence of an inorganic base (such as KHCO 3 , NaHCO 3)
    which can be provided in the form of an aqueous solution.
             Accordingly, in another aspect of the invention provides a process for preparing a
    compound of Formula F19, or a salt thereof, wherein R2, R3, and n, are as defined herein;
30  including reacting a compound of Formula F17, or a salt thereof, with hydrochloric acid,
    optionally in a solvent (such as dioxane), followed by treatment with a nitrite reagent (such
    as, sodium nitrite), optionally in the form of an aqueous solution, to afford a compound of
    Formula F18, or a salt thereof, and reacting the compound of Formula F18 with a compound
    of Formula F27, or a salt thereof, to afford the compound of Formula F19.
                                                   28

           In some embodiments, the compound of Formula F17 can be obtained by treating a
   compound of Formula F16, or a salt thereof, with a base (such as potassium hydroxide) in a
   solvent (such as ethylene glycol) at a temperature sufficient to reflux the solvent (such as 130
    C), to provide a compound of Formula F17.
 5         The present invention further provides a compound of Formula F18, or a salt thereof,
   wherein n is 1 or 2. In some embodiments, n is 1. In some embodiments, n is 2.
                                        OH     H2N             R4                         NOH
                                 H18N                                             H                          CDI/A
                            N                                                              N
              H 3 CO      n/            C            base                                    H               CI
                              N,0 N                   FNC                               N            7
                             F6                                                        F36           R4
                            H        N-I>=                    Methoxy                   H          N0>=
                                H3CO0                   deprotecting agent     HO{n                        O
                              N' ON                             H                         N      N
                               F35                                                           F34
                                          H        Wj= 0                 azide             H              >=
               L1-Cl/base____0 L0                     Nn
                                                      N      00egn reagent         N(N                  N
                    '                      NO N                           J'                 N     N
                                                                     4                              F31            R
                                             F32                  R
                                                                          N-0                0
                                                         H              > O             H
                                 Reduction    H2 N      n       N      N     0-11
                                                            N, N             0-Qu            0
                                    K",                    N  0  N                     organic base
                                                                                   4
                                                                  F29             R
                                             0                                                      No    H
                                          N-     >O
                 H2N             N                  O           base
               H2N0                                                        H2
                                                                           HNeN                         N
                       H         n /\               0H                                    n/
                                   N'ON                          N'"                         N'    NO
                                                                 N"'n                           '
                                                          4
                                   F30                   R                                   F28
                                                           Scheme 9
           Compounds F28 can be obtained as described in Scheme 9. The chloro oxime F6
10 (supra, Scheme 1) can be coupled with heterocyclic amines (such as compound of Formula
   F38), optionally in a polar solvent (such as methanol, water, ethanol and the like), in the
   presence of a base such as an inorganic base or an organic base (e.g., Et3 N, pyridine or
   DIPEA) to provide arylamidoxime F36 (Step F"). In some embodiments, the conversion of
   F6 to F36 can be carried out at temperatures such as about 10 'C, about 20 'C, about 30 'C,
15 about 40 'C, about 50 'C, about 60 'C, or about 90 'C. In some embodiments, the inorganic
   base can be provided in the form of an aqueous solution. In some embodiments, the
   inorganic base can be added to the reaction mixture at an elevated temperature. The
                                                             29

    amidoxime functionality of F36 can then be protected as an oxadiazolone using 1,1'
    carbonyl diimidazole (CDI) in a solvent (such as ethyl acetate, dioxane, THF and the like) at
    elevated temperatures such as about 50 C, about 60 'C, about 70 'C, about 80 'C, about 90
     C, or about 100 'C (Step G"). The methoxy group of F35 can then be converted to a
 5  hydroxyl group in F34 by methods known to one skilled in the art for the deprotecetion of
    methoxy group (Step H'), such as those in Wuts and Greene, Greene's Protective Groups in
    Organic Synthesis, 4 th Ed., pp 24-30, John Wiley & Sons: New York, 2006. For example, by
    addition of boron tribromide to a cold (such as from about -78 'C to about 25 'C, e.g., from
    about -78 'C to about 10 'C, from about -78 'C to about 0 'C, from about -78 'C to about -10
 0  'C. from about 0 'C to about 25 'C, or from about 0 'C to about 10 C) solution of F35,
    optionally in a solvent such as a halogenated solvent (e.g., DCM, chloroform and the like) or
    ethyl acetate. The primary hydroxyl group in F34 can then be subsequently activated as a
    leaving group L 1O- (see Step I', F32) by sequential treatment with L1 Cl, optionally in a
    solvent (such as ethyl acetate or DCM), and an organic base to mop up the generated HCI
 5  (such as triethylamine or DIPEA). In compounds F32, L' can be selected from alkylsulfonyl
    (e.g., methanesulfonyl), haloalkylsulfonyl (e.g., trifluoromethanesulfonyl), arylsulfonyl (e.g.,
    toluenesulfonyl) and the like. The compound F32 can then be treated with any nucleophile
    for SN2 displacement of the leaving group L'O. In some embodiments, this step can be
    performed at a temperature from about -10 'C to about 60 'C, e.g., from about -10 'C to
 '0 about 0 'C, from about 0 'C to about 25 'C, from about 25 'C to about 45 'C, or from about
    45 'C to about 60 'C.
            When the nucleophile is an azide ion, F32 provides F31 (Step J'). Azide reagents
    include any reagent capable of producing a nucleophilic azide ion. Examples of azide
    reagents include alkali metal azides (such as sodium azide, potassium azide). In some
25  optional embodiments, the azide reagent such as sodium azide can be used in combination
    with sodium iodide. Appropriate solvents for this transformation are polar solvents including
    DMF, DMSO, NMP and the like. In some embodiments, this step can be carried out in DMF.
    In some embodiments, this step can be carried out at an elevated temperature e.g., from about
    40 'C to about 100 'C, from about 50 'C to about 90 'C, or from about 60 'C to about 80 'C.
30  In some embodiments, this step can be carried out at 50 'C. In some embodiments, this step
    can be carried out at 85 'C. Organic azides such as F31 can be reduced to organic amines
    such as F29 by the addition of hydrogen, either in the form of elemental hydrogen; using a
    hydride reagent (such as NaBH4, LiAlH4 and the like); using triphenylphosphine; or using a
    combination of sodium iodide, chlorotrimethylsilane, and methanol (Step K"'). In some
                                                 30

    embodiments, the reducing can be carried out in the presence of sodium iodide,
    chlorotrimethylsilane, and methanol. In some embodiments, the reduction can be performed
    at about room temperature e.g., from about 10 'C to about 50 'C, from about 15 'C to about
    40 'C, from about 20 'C to about 30 'C, or from about 25 'C to about 30 'C. In some
 5  embodiments, the molar ratio of sodium iodide and chlorotrimethylsilane can be about 1.0
    e.g., about 0.9, about 0.95, about 1.0, about 1.05, or about 1.1. In some embodiments,
    chlorotrimethylsilane can be added to the mixture of F31, sodium iodide and methanol as a
    solution in methanol.
             Treatment of F29 with sulfamide in the presence of a base such as an organic base
 0  which can be a heterocyclic base (e.g., pyridine), or a trialkylamine (e.g., triethylamine,
    DIPEA and the like), each of which can optionally be used as a solvent for this
    transformation to provide the sulfonyl ureas such as F30 (Step R'). This reaction can be
    carried out at elevated temperatures such as about 130 'C, e.g., about 100 'C, about 110 'C,
    about 120 'C, about 130 'C, or about 140 'C. Such heating can be favorably applied using
 5  microwave irradiation. Microwave irradiation can be performed in a commercial microwave
    oven (e.g., the Initiator3, available from Biotage) operating in a single mode fashion.
    Compounds F30 containing the oxadiazolone ring can be deprotected (e.g., hydrolyzed) to
    the desired amidoximes F28 in the presence of a base (Step N"'). The base can be either an
    organic base such as acyclic amines (e.g., triethylamine, diisopropylethylamine (DIPEA),
 .0 etc.) or cyclic amines (e.g., pyrrolidine, piperidine, etc.); or an inorganic base such as alkali
    (e.g., NaOH, LiOH, KOH, Mg(OH)2, etc.). The base can be made available in the form of a
    resin (such as Amberlite® and the like). In some further embodiments, the base can be
    provided in the form of a solution in water (an aqueous base) such as about 2N solution (e.g.,
    about 0.5N solution, about IN solution, about 1.5N solution, about 2.5N solution, from about
25  3N to about 5N solution, from about 5N to about ION solution). In some embodiments, the
    base can be an alkali metal hydroxide (e.g., sodium hydroxide). In some embodiments, the
    base can be a 2N NaOH solution in water. In some embodiments, the solvent can be
    methanol or tetrahydrofuran (THF). In some embodiments, the deprotection can be
    performed at a temperature from about -10 'C to about 60 'C, e.g., from about -10 'C to
30  about 0 'C, from about 0 'C to about 25 'C, from about 25 'C to about 45 'C, or from about
    45 'C to about 60 'C.
             Accordingly, another aspect of the invention provides a process for preparing a
    compound of Formula F28, or a salt thereof, wherein R 4 is F, Cl, Br, or I; and n is 1 or 2;
                                                   31

    including reacting a compound of Formula F29, or a salt thereof, with sulfamide and an
    organic base to afford a compound of Formula F30, or a salt thereof, and reacting the
    compound of Formula F30 with a base to afford the compound of Formula F28.
            In some embodiments, R 4 is Cl and n is 1.
 5          In some embodiments, R 4 is Br and n is 1.
            In some embodiments, reacting a compound of Formula F29 further includes heating
    the reaction (such as using microwave irradiation).
            In another aspect, the invention provides a process of obtaining the compound of
    Formula F29 by reducing a compound of Formula F3 1, or a salt thereof. In some
 0  embodiments, the reducing can be carried out with a combination of sodium iodide,
    chlorotrimethylsilane, and methanol.
            In another aspect of the invention, the compound of Formula F31 can be obtained by
    treating a compound of Formula F32, or a salt thereof, wherein Ll is selected from
    alkylsulfonyl, haloalkylsulfonyl, and arylsulfonyl; with an azide reagent to afford the
 5  compound of Formula F3 1.
            As used herein, the term "alkyl," when used alone or together with additional moiety
    terms, refers to a straight-chained or branched, saturated hydrocarbon group having from 1 to
    6 carbon atoms, 1 to 4 carbon atoms, or 1 to 3 carbon atoms. Example alkyl groups include
    methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl, n-butyl, isobutyl, sec-butyl, and the like.
 O0         As used herein, "alkenyl" refers to an alkyl group having one or more double carbon
    carbon bonds. Example alkenyl groups include ethenyl (vinyl), propenyl, and the like.
            As used herein, the term "aryl" refers to an aromatic hydrocarbon group which can be
    mono- or polycyclic having from 6 to 14 carbon atoms. Example aryl groups include phenyl,
    naphthyl, anthracenyl, phenanthrenyl, indanyl, indenyl, and the like.
25          As used herein, the term "haloalkyl," when used alone or together with an additional
    moiety, refers to an alkyl group substituted by one or more halogen atoms independently
    selected from F, Cl, Br, and 1. Example haloalkyl groups include CF 3 , CHF2, CH 2CF 3 , and
    the like.
            As used herein, the term "alkoxy" refers to an -0-alkyl group. Example alkoxy
30  groups include methoxy, ethoxy, propoxy (e.g., n-propoxy and isopropoxy), t-butoxy, and the
    like.
            As used herein, "alkylamine" refers to an amino (NH 2) group substituted by an alkyl
    group. Example alkylamine groups include methylamine, hexylamine, and the like.
                                                  32

            As used herein, "trialkylamine" refers to a nitrogen atom substituted by three alkyl
    group. Example trialkylamine groups include trimethylamine, triethylamine,and the like.
            As used herein, the term "alkoxycarbonyl" refers to CO substituted by an alkoxy
    group: -C(O)-O-alkyl. Example alkoxycarbonyl groups include ethoxycarbonyl, tert
 5  butoxycarbonyl (Boc), benzyloxycarbonyl (Cbz), 9-fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl (Fmoc), and
    the like.
            As used herein, the term "alkylsulfonyl" refers to a sulfonyl group substituted by an
    alkyl group: alkylS(O)2-. Example alkylsulfonyl groups include, methanesulfonyl,
    ethanesulfonyl, and the like.
 0          As used herein, the term "haloalkylsulfonyl" refers to a sulfonyl group substituted by
    a haloalkyl group. Example haloalkylsulfonyl groups include, trifluoromethanesulfonyl,
    1,1,1-trifluoroethanesulfonyl, and the like.
            As used herein, the term "arylsulfonyl" refers to a sulfonyl group substituted by an
    aryl group or a substituted aryl group, wherein the substituents on the aryl group are selected
 5  from halo, nitro, C1 _4 alkyl, and C4 haloalkyl.
            As used herein, the term "heterocyclic base" refers to a 4 to 14 membered, optionally
    substituted, heterocycle wherein at least one ring forming member is a nitrogen atom. The
    heterocyclic base can be aromatic or non-aromatic. Example heterocyclic bases include
    pyridine, pyrrolidine, piperidine, morpholine etc. Example substituents on the heterocycle
 '0 include F, Cl, Br, C1_4 alkyl, and C4 haloalkyl.
    Methods of Use
            Compounds of the invention can inhibit activity of the enzyme indoleamine-2,3
    dioxygenase (IDO). For example, the compounds of the invention can be used to inhibit
25  activity of IDO in cell or in an individual in need of modulation of the enzyme by
    administering an inhibiting amount of a compound of the invention.
            The present invention further provides methods of inhibiting the degradation of
    tryptophan in a system containing cells expressing IDO such as a tissue, living organism, or
    cell culture. In some embodiments, the present invention provides methods of altering (e.g.,
30  increasing) extracellular tryptophan levels in a mammal by administering an effective amount
    of a compound of composition provided herein. Methods of measuring tryptophan levels and
    tryptophan degradation are routine in the art.
            The present invention further provides methods of inhibiting immunosuppression
    such as IDO-mediated immunosuppression in a patient by administering to the patient an
                                                  33

    effective amount of a compound or composition recited herein. IDO-mediated
    immunosuppression has been associated with, for example, cancers, tumor growth,
    metastasis, viral infection, viral replication, etc.
             The present invention further provides methods of treating diseases associated with
 5  activity or expression, including abnormal activity and/or overexpression, of IDO in an
    individual (e.g., patient) by administering to the individual in need of such treatment a
    therapeutically effective amount or dose of a compound of the present invention or a
    pharmaceutical composition thereof. Example diseases can include any disease, disorder or
    condition that is directly or indirectly linked to expression or activity of the IDO enzyme,
 0  such as over expression or abnormal activity. An IDO-associated disease can also include
    any disease, disorder or condition that can be prevented, ameliorated, or cured by modulating
    enzyme activity. Examples of IDO-associated diseases include cancer, viral infection such as
    HIV infection, HCV infection, depression, neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's
    disease and Huntington's disease, trauma, age-related cataracts, organ transplantation (e.g.,
 5  organ transplant rejection), and autoimmune diseases including asthma, rheumatoid arthritis,
    multiple sclerosis, allergic inflammation, inflammatory bowel disease, psoriasis and systemic
    lupus erythematosusor. Example cancers treatable by the methods herein include cancer of
    the colon, pancreas, breast, prostate, lung, brain, ovary, cervix, testes, renal, head and neck,
    lymphoma, leukemia, melanoma, and the like. The compounds of the invention can also be
 '0 useful in the treatment of obesity and ischemia.
             As used herein, the term "cell" is meant to refer to a cell that is in vitro, ex vivo or in
    vivo. In some embodiments, an ex vivo cell can be part of a tissue sample excised from an
    organism such as a mammal. In some embodiments, an in vitro cell can be a cell in a cell
    culture. In some embodiments, an in vivo cell is a cell living in an organism such as a
25  mammal.
             As used herein, the term "contacting" refers to the bringing together of indicated
    moieties in an in vitro system or an in vivo system. For example, "contacting" the IDO
    enzyme with a compound of the invention includes the administration of a compound of the
    present invention to an individual or patient, such as a human, having IDO, as well as, for
30  example, introducing a compound of the invention into a sample containing a cellular or
    purified preparation containing the IDO enzyme.
             As used herein, the term "individual" or "patient," used interchangeably, refers to any
    animal, including mammals, preferably mice, rats, other rodents, rabbits, dogs, cats, swine,
    cattle, sheep, horses, or primates, and most preferably humans.
                                                    34

           As used herein, the phrase "therapeutically effective amount" refers to the amount of
   active compound or pharmaceutical agent that elicits the biological or medicinal response in a
   tissue, system, animal, individual or human that is being sought by a researcher, veterinarian,
   medical doctor or other clinician.
 5         As used herein the term "treating" or "treatment" refers to 1) preventing the disease;
   for example, preventing a disease, condition or disorder in an individual who may be
   predisposed to the disease, condition or disorder but does not yet experience or display the
   pathology or symptomatology of the disease; 2) inhibiting the disease; for example, inhibiting
   a disease, condition or disorder in an individual who is experiencing or displaying the
 0 pathology or symptomatology of the disease, condition or disorder (i.e., arresting further
   development of the pathology and/or symptomatology), or 3) ameliorating the disease; for
   example, ameliorating a disease, condition or disorder in an individual who is experiencing or
   displaying the pathology or symptomatology of the disease, condition or disorder (i.e.,
   reversing the pathology and/or symptomatology).
 5
   CombinationTherapy
           One or more additional pharmaceutical agents or treatment methods such as, for
   example, anti-viral agents, chemotherapeutics or other anti-cancer agents, immune enhancers,
   immunosuppressants, radiation, anti-tumor and anti-viral vaccines, cytokine therapy (e.g.,
 O IL2, GM-CSF, etc.), and/or tyrosine kinase inhibitors can be used in combination with the
   compounds of the present invention for treatment of IDO-associated diseases, disorders or
   conditions. The agents can be combined with the present compounds in a single dosage form.,
   or the agents can be administered simultaneously or sequentially as separate dosage forms.
           Suitable antiviral agents contemplated for use in combination with the compounds of
25 the present invention can comprise nucleoside and nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitors
   (NRTIs), non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NNRTIs), protease inhibitors and
   other antiviral drugs.
           Example suitable NRTIs include zidovudine (AZT); didanosine (ddl); zalcitabine
   (ddC); stavudine (d4T); lamivudine (3TC); abacavir (1592U89); adefovir dipivoxil
30 [bis(POM)-PMEA]; lobucavir (BMS-180194); BCH-10652; emitricitabine [(-)-FTC]; beta-L
   FD4 (also called beta-L-D4C and named beta-L-2', 3-dicleoxy-5-fluoro-cytidene); DAPD, ((
   )-beta-D-2,6,-diamino-purine dioxolane); and lodenosine (FddA). Typical suitable NNRTIs
   include nevirapine (BI-RG-587); delaviradine (BHAP, U-90152); efavirenz (DMP-266);
   PNU-142721; AG-1549; MKC-442 (1-(ethoxy-methyl)-5-(1-methylethyl)-6-(phenylmethyl)
                                                 35

    (2,4(1H,3H)-pyrimidinedione); and (+)-calanolide A (NSC-67545 1) and B. Typical suitable
    protease inhibitors include saquinavir (Ro 31-8959); ritonavir (ABT-538); indinavir (MK
    639); nelfnavir (AG-1343); amprenavir (141W94); lasinavir (BMS-234475); DMP-450;
    BMS-2322623; ABT-378; and AG-I 549. Other antiviral agents include hydroxyurea,
 5  ribavirin, IL-2, IL- 12, pentafuside and Yissum Project No.11607.
             Suitable chemotherapeutic or other anti-cancer agents include, for example, alkylating
    agents (including, without limitation, nitrogen mustards, ethylenimine derivatives, alkyl
    sulfonates, nitrosoureas and triazenes) such as uracil mustard, chlormethine,
    cyclophosphamide (Cytoxan TM), ifosfamide, melphalan, chlorambucil, pipobroman,
 0  triethylene-melamine, triethylenethiophosphoramine, busulfan, carmustine, lomustine.
    streptozocin, dacarbazine, and temozolomide.
             In the treatment of melanoma, suitable agents for use in combination with the
    compounds of the present invention include: dacarbazine (DTIC), optionally, along with
    other chemotherapy drugs such as carmustine (BCNU) and cisplatin; the "Dartmouth
 5  regimen," which consists of DTIC, BCNU, cisplatin and tamoxifen; a combination of
    cisplatin, vinblastine, and DTIC; or temozolomide. Compounds according to the invention
    may also be combined with immunotherapy drugs, including cytokines such as interferon
    alpha, interleukin 2, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) in the treatment of melanoma.
             Compounds of the invention may also be used in combination with vaccine therapy in
 '0 the treatment of melanoma. Antimelanoma vaccines are, in some ways, similar to the anti
    virus vaccines which are used to prevent diseases caused by viruses such as polio, measles,
    and mumps. Weakened melanoma cells or parts of melanoma cells called antigens may be
    injected into a patient to stimulate the body's immune system to destroy melanoma cells.
             Melanomas that are confined to the arms or legs may also be treated with a
25  combination of agents including one or more compounds of the invention, using a
    hyperthermic isolated limb perfusion technique. This treatment protocol temporarily
    separates the circulation of the involved limb from the rest of the body and injects high doses
    of chemotherapy into the artery feeding the limb, thus providing high doses to the area of the
    tumor without exposing internal organs to these doses that might otherwise cause severe side
30  effects. Usually the fluid is warmed to 1020 to 1040 F. Melphalan is the drug most often used
    in this chemotherapy procedure. This can be given with another agent called tumor necrosis
    factor (TNF) (see section on cytokines).
             Suitable chemotherapeutic or other anti-cancer agents include, for example,
    antimetabolites (including, without limitation, folic acid antagonists, pyrimidine analogs,
                                                  36

    purine analogs and adenosine deaminase inhibitors) such as methotrexate, 5-fluorouracil,
    floxuridine, cytarabine, 6-mercaptopurine, 6-thioguanine, fludarabine phosphate,
    pentostatine, and gemcitabine.
             Suitable chemotherapeutic or other anti-cancer agents further include, for example,
 5  certain natural products and their derivatives (for example, vinca alkaloids, antitumor
    antibiotics, enzymes, lymphokines and epipodophyllotoxins) such as vinblastine, vincristine,
    vindesine, bleomycin, dactinomycin, daunorubicin, doxorubicin, epirubicin, idarubicin, ara
    C, paclitaxel (TAXOL'TM), mithramycin, deoxycoformycin, mitomycin-C, L-asparaginase,
    interferons (especially IFN-a), etoposide, and teniposide.
 0           Other cytotoxic agents include navelbene, CPT- 11, anastrazole, letrazole,
    capecitabine, reloxafine, cyclophosphamide, ifosamide, and droloxafine.
             Also suitable are cytotoxic agents such as epidophyllotoxin; an antineoplastic
    enzyme; a topoisomerase inhibitor; procarbazine; mitoxantrone; platinum coordination
    complexes such as cis-platin and carboplatin; biological response modifiers; growth
 5  inhibitors; antihormonal therapeutic agents; leucovorin; tegafur; and haematopoietic growth
    factors.
             Other anti-cancer agent(s) include antibody therapeutics such as trastuzumab
    (Herceptin), antibodies to costimulatory molecules such as CTLA-4, 4-1BB and PD-1, or
    antibodies to cytokines (IL-10, TGF- . etc.).
 .0          Other anti-cancer agents also include those that block immune cell migration such as
    antagonists to chemokine receptors, including CCR2 and CCR4.
             Other anti-cancer agents also include those that augment the immune system such as
    adjuvants or adoptive T cell transfer.
             Anti-cancer vaccines include dendritic cells, synthetic peptides, DNA vaccines and
25  recombinant viruses.
             Methods for the safe and effective administration of most of these chemotherapeutic
    agents are known to those skilled in the art. In addition, their administration is described in
    the standard literature. For example, the administration of many of the chemotherapeutic
    agents is described in the "Physicians' Desk Reference" (PDR, e.g., 1996 edition, Medical
30  Economics Company, Montvale, NJ), the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by
    reference as if set forth in its entirety.
    PharmaceuticalFormulationsand Dosage Forms
                                                  37

           When employed as pharmaceuticals, the compounds of the invention can be
   administered in the form of pharmaceutical compositions which is a combination of a
   compound of the invention and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. These compositions
   can be prepared in a manner well known in the pharmaceutical art, and can be administered
 5 by a variety of routes, depending upon whether local or systemic treatment is desired and
   upon the area to be treated. Administration may be topical (including ophthalmic and to
   mucous membranes including intranasal, vaginal and rectal delivery), pulmonary (e.g., by
   inhalation or insufflation of powders or aerosols, including by nebulizer; intratracheal,
   intranasal, epidermal and transdermal), ocular, oral or parenteral. Methods for ocular delivery
 0 can include topical administration (eye drops), subconjunctival, periocular or intravitreal
   injection or introduction by balloon catheter or ophthalmic inserts surgically placed in the
   conjunctival sac. Parenteral administration includes intravenous, intraarterial, subcutaneous,
   intraperitoneal, or intramuscular injection or infusion; or intracranial, e.g., intrathecal or
   intraventricular, administration. Parenteral administration can be in the form of a single bolus
 5 dose, or may be, for example, by a continuous perfusion pump. Pharmaceutical compositions
   and formulations for topical administration may include transdermal patches, ointments,
   lotions, creams, gels, drops, suppositories, sprays, liquids and powders. Conventional
   pharmaceutical carriers, aqueous, powder or oily bases, thickeners and the like may be
   necessary or desirable.
 0         This invention also includes pharmaceutical compositions which contain, as the active
   ingredient, one or more of the compounds of the invention above in combination with one or
   more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. In making the compositions of the invention, the
   active ingredient is typically mixed with an excipient, diluted by an excipient or enclosed
   within such a carrier in the form of, for example, a capsule, sachet, paper, or other container.
25 When the excipient serves as a diluent, it can be a solid, semi-solid, or liquid material, which
   acts as a vehicle, carrier or medium for the active ingredient. Thus, the compositions can be
   in the form of tablets, pills, powders, lozenges, sachets, cachets, elixirs, suspensions,
   emulsions, solutions, syrups, aerosols (as a solid or in a liquid medium), ointments
   containing, for example, up to 10 % by weight of the active compound, soft and hard gelatin
30 capsules, suppositories, sterile injectable solutions, and sterile packaged powders.
           In preparing a formulation, the active compound can be milled to provide the
   appropriate particle size prior to combining with the other ingredients. If the active compound
   is substantially insoluble, it can be milled to a particle size of less than 200 mesh. If the active
                                                  38

    compound is substantially water soluble, the particle size can be adjusted by milling to
    provide a substantially uniform distribution in the formulation, e.g. about 40 mesh.
             Some examples of suitable excipients include lactose, dextrose, sucrose, sorbitol,
    mannitol, starches, gum acacia, calcium phosphate, alginates, tragacanth, gelatin, calcium
 5  silicate, microcrystalline cellulose, polyvinylpyrrolidone, cellulose, water, syrup, and methyl
    cellulose. The formulations can additionally include: lubricating agents such as talc,
    magnesium stearate, and mineral oil; wetting agents; emulsifying and suspending agents;
    preserving agents such as methyl- and propylhydroxy-benzoates; sweetening agents; and
    flavoring agents. The compositions of the invention can be formulated so as to provide quick,
 0  sustained or delayed release of the active ingredient after administration to the patient by
    employing procedures known in the art.
             The compositions can be formulated in a unit dosage form, each dosage containing
    from about 5 to about 100 mg, more usually about 10 to about 30 mg, of the active
    ingredient. The term "unit dosage forms" refers to physically discrete units suitable as unitary
 5  dosages for human subjects and other mammals, each unit containing a predetermined
    quantity of active material calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect, in association
    with a suitable pharmaceutical excipient.
             The active compound can be effective over a wide dosage range and is generally
    administered in a pharmaceutically effective amount. It will be understood, however, that the
 '0 amount of the compound actually administered will usually be determined by a physician,
    according to the relevant circumstances, including the condition to be treated, the chosen
    route of administration, the actual compound administered, the age, weight, and response of
    the individual patient, the severity of the patient's symptoms, and the like.
             For preparing solid compositions such as tablets, the principal active ingredient is
25  mixed with a pharmaceutical excipient to form a solid pre-formulation composition
    containing a homogeneous mixture of a compound of the present invention. When referring
    to these pre-formulation compositions as homogeneous, the active ingredient is typically
    dispersed evenly throughout the composition so that the composition can be readily
    subdivided into equally effective unit dosage forms such as tablets, pills and capsules. This
30  solid pre-formulation is then subdivided into unit dosage forms of the type described above
    containing from, for example, 0.1 to about 500 mg of the active ingredient of the present
    invention.
             The tablets or pills of the present invention can be coated or otherwise compounded to
    provide a dosage form affording the advantage of prolonged action. For example, the tablet or
                                                    39

    pill can comprise an inner dosage and an outer dosage component, the latter being in the form
    of an envelope over the former. The two components can be separated by an enteric layer
    which serves to resist disintegration in the stomach and permit the inner component to pass
    intact into the duodenum or to be delayed in release. A variety of materials can be used for
 5  such enteric layers or coatings, such materials including a number of polymeric acids and
    mixtures of polymeric acids with such materials as shellac, cetyl alcohol, and cellulose
    acetate.
             The liquid forms in which the compounds and compositions of the present invention
    can be incorporated for administration orally or by injection include aqueous solutions,
 0  suitably flavored syrups, aqueous or oil suspensions, and flavored emulsions with edible oils
    such as cottonseed oil, sesame oil, coconut oil, or peanut oil, as well as elixirs and similar
    pharmaceutical vehicles.
             Compositions for inhalation or insufflation include solutions and suspensions in
    pharnaceutically acceptable, aqueous or organic solvents, or mixtures thereof, and powders.
 5  The liquid or solid compositions may contain suitable pharmaceutically acceptable excipients
    as described supra. In some embodiments, the compositions are administered by the oral or
    nasal respiratory route for local or systemic effect. Compositions in can be nebulized by use
    of inert gases. Nebulized solutions may be breathed directly from the nebulizing device or the
    nebulizing device can be attached to a face masks tent, or intermittent positive pressure
 '0 breathing machine. Solution, suspension, or powder compositions can be administered orally
    or nasally from devices which deliver the formulation in an appropriate manner.
             The amount of compound or composition administered to a patient will vary
    depending upon what is being administered, the purpose of the administration, such as
    prophylaxis or therapy, the state of the patient, the manner of administration, and the like. In
25  therapeutic applications, compositions can be administered to a patient already suffering from
    a disease in an amount sufficient to cure or at least partially arrest the symptoms of the
    disease and its complications. Effective doses will depend on the disease condition being
    treated as well as by the judgment of the attending clinician depending upon factors such as
    the severity of the disease, the age, weight and general condition of the patient, and the like.
30           The compositions administered to a patient can be in the form of pharmaceutical
    compositions described above. These compositions can be sterilized by conventional
    sterilization techniques, or may be sterile filtered. Aqueous solutions can be packaged for use
    as is, or lyophilized, the lyophilized preparation being combined with a sterile aqueous carrier
    prior to administration. The pH of the compound preparations typically will be between 3 and
                                                   40

    11, more preferably from 5 to 9 and most preferably from 7 to 8. It will be understood that
    use of certain of the foregoing excipients, carriers, or stabilizers will result in the formation of
    pharmaceutical salts.
             The therapeutic dosage of the compounds of the present invention can vary according
 5  to, for example, the particular use for which the treatment is made, the manner of
    administration of the compound, the health and condition of the patient, and the judgment of
    the prescribing physician. The proportion or concentration of a compound of the invention in
    a pharmaceutical composition can vary depending upon a number of factors including
    dosage, chemical characteristics (e.g., hydrophobicity), and the route of administration. For
 0  example, the compounds of the invention can be provided in an aqueous physiological buffer
    solution containing about 0.1 to about 10% w/v of the compound for parenteral
    administration. Some typical dose ranges are from about I gg/kg to about 1 g/kg of body
    weight per day. In some embodiments, the dose range is from about 0.01 mg/kg to about 100
    mg/kg of body weight per day. The dosage is likely to depend on such variables as the type
 5  and extent of progression of the disease or disorder, the overall health status of the particular
    patient, the relative biological efficacy of the compound selected, formulation of the
    excipient, and its route of administration. Effective doses can be extrapolated from dose
    response curves derived from in vitro or animal model test systems.
             The compounds of the invention can also be formulated in combination with one or
 .0 more additional active ingredients which can include any pharmaceutical agent such as anti
    viral agents, vaccines, antibodies, immune enhancers, immune suppressants, anti
    inflammatory agents and the like.
    Labeled Compounds and Assay Methods
25           Another aspect of the present invention relates to fluorescent dye, spin label, heavy
    metal or radio-labeled compounds of the invention that would be useful not only in imaging
    but also in assays, both in vitro and in vivo, for localizing and quantitating the IDO enzyme in
    tissue samples, including human, and for identifying IDO enzyme ligands by inhibition
    binding of a labeled compound. Accordingly, the present invention includes IDO enzyme
30  assays that contain such labeled compounds.
             The present invention further includes isotopically-labeled compounds of Formula I.
    An isotopicallyy" or "radio-labeled" compound is a compound of the invention where one or
    more atoms are replaced or substituted by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number
                                                   41

    different from the atomic mass or mass number typically found in nature (i.e., naturally
    occurring). Suitable radionuclides that may be incorporated in compounds of the present
    invention include but are not limited to               2H   (also written as D for deuterium), 3H (also written
                                    3C, 14C, 1
    as T for tritium), "C,                        N, 1 N,      O 170 's0, 18F,          36Cl, 82Br,
                                                                                              "S,   7 5Br, 7 6
                                                                                                              Br, 7 7Br,
 5  1 23
         I, 1 24
                  , 125 and 131.    The radionuclide that is incorporated in the instant radio-labeled
    compounds will depend on the specific application of that radio-labeled compound. For
    example, for in vitro IDO enzyme labeling and competition assays, compounds that
    incorporate 3H, 14 C,        82
                                    Br,  1251 , 131, or   3S  will generally be most useful. For radio-imaging
    applications "C, 18F,          1251, 123,   124, 131,  75Br, 76Br   or  77
                                                                               Br will generally be most useful.
 0               It is understood that a "radio-labeled " or "labeled compound" is a compound that has
    incorporated at least one radionuclide. In some embodiments the radionuclide is selected
    from the group consisting of 3H, 14C.                                82
                                                        125I ,    S and     Br.
                 Synthetic methods for incorporating radio-isotopes into organic compounds are
    applicable to compounds of the invention and are well known in the art.
 5               A radio-labeled compound of the invention can be used in a screening assay to
    identify/evaluate compounds. In general terms, a newly synthesized or identified compound
    (i.e., test compound) can be evaluated for its ability to reduce binding of the radio-labeled
    compound of the invention to the IDO enzyme. Accordingly, the ability of a test compound
    to compete with the radio-labeled compound for binding to the IDO enzyme directly
 '0 correlates to its binding affinity.
    Kits
                 The present invention also includes pharmaceutical kits useful, for example, in the
    treatment or prevention of IDO-associated diseases or disorders, obesity, diabetes and other
25  diseases referred to herein which include one or more containers containing a pharmaceutical
    composition comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention.
    Such kits can further include, if desired, one or more of various conventional pharmaceutical
    kit components, such as, for example, containers with one or more pharmaceutically
    acceptable carriers, additional containers, etc., as will be readily apparent to those skilled in
30  the art. Instructions, either as inserts or as labels, indicating quantities of the components to
    be administered, guidelines for administration, and/or guidelines for mixing the components,
    can also be included in the kit.
                 The invention will be described in greater detail by way of specific examples. The
    following examples are offered for illustrative purposes, and are not intended to limit the
                                                                 42

   invention in any manner. Those of skill in the art will readily recognize a variety of non
   critical parameters which can be changed or modified to yield essentially the same results.
   The compounds of the Examples were found to be inhibitors of IDO according to one or
   more of the assays provided herein.
 5
   EXAMPLES
   Example 1
   4-({2-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]ethyl}amino)-N-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                         0OH          F
                                   R-PJ        H
                                 H2N'SN        N           N          Br
                                        H         N, N     H
 0                                                  0
   Step A: 4-Amino-N'-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                       NOH
                                           H2N          NH2
                                               N,    N
                                                  0
   Malononitrile [Aldrich, product # M1407] (320.5 g, 5 mol) was added to water (7 L)
   preheated to 45 'C and stirred for 5 min. The resulting solution was cooled in an ice bath and
 5 sodium nitrite (380 g, 5.5 mol) was added. When the temperature reached 10 'C, 6 N
   hydrochloric acid (55 mL) was added. A mild exothermic reaction ensued with the
   temperature reaching 16 'C. After 15 min the cold bath was removed and the reaction
   mixture was stirred for 1.5 hrs at 16-18 'C. The reaction mixture was cooled to 13 'C and
   50% aqueous hydroxylamine (990 g, 15 mol) was added all at once. The temperature rose to
20 26 'C. When the exothermic reaction subsided the cold bath was removed and stirring was
   continued for 1 hr at 26-27 'C, then it was slowly brought to reflux. Reflux was maintained
   for 2 hrs and then the reaction mixture was allowed to cool overnight. The reaction mixture
   was stirred in an ice bath and 6 N hydrochloric acid (800 mL) was added in portions over 40
   min to pH 7.0. Stirring was continued in the ice bath at 5 'C. The precipitate was collected by
25 filtration, washed well with water and dried in a vacuum oven (50 'C) to give the desired
   product (644 g, 90%). LCMS for C3 H6 N 5 0     2 (M+H)+: m/z = 144.0. 1 3 C NMR (75 MHz,
   CD 3 0D): 8 156.0, 145.9, 141.3.
                                                43

   Step B: 4-Amino-N-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl chloride
                                                         XOH
                                            H2 N
                                                         CI
                                                 N, N
                                                   0
   4-Amino-N'-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide         (422 g, 2.95 mol) was added to a
   mixture of water (5.9 L), acetic acid (3 L) and 6 N hydrochloric acid (1.475 L, 3 eq.) and this
 5 suspension was stirred at 42 - 45 'C until complete solution was achieved. Sodium chloride
   (518 g, 3 eq.) was added and this solution was stirred in an ice/water/methanol bath. A
   solution of sodium nitrite (199.5 g, 0.98 eq.) in water (700 mL) was added over 3.5 hrs while
   maintaining the temperature below 0 'C. After complete addition stirring was continued in
   the ice bath for 1.5 hrs and then the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 15 'C. The
 0 precipitate was collected by filtration, washed well with water, taken in ethyl acetate (3.4 L),
   treated with anhydrous sodium sulfate (500 g) and stirred for 1 hr. This suspension was
   filtered through sodium sulfate (200 g) and the filtrate was concentrated on a rotary
   evaporator. The residue was dissolved in methyl t-butyl ether (5.5 L), treated with charcoal
   (40 g), stirred for 40 min and filtered through Celite. The solvent was removed in a rotary
 5 evaporator and the resulting product was dried in a vacuum oven (45 OC) to give the desired
   product (256 g, 53.4%). LCMS for C 3 H 4 C1N4 02 (M+H)+: m/z = 162.9.         13 C NMR (100
   MHz, CD 3 0D): 6 155.8, 143.4, 129.7.
   Step C: 4-Amino-N'-hydroxy-N-(2-methoxyethyl)-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                     N
                                                     H
                                             N, -N
20                                             0
   4-Amino-N-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl chloride (200.0 g, 1.23 mol) was
   mixed with ethyl acetate (1.2 L). At 0-5 'C 2-methoxyethylamine [Aldrich, product #
   143693] (119.0 mL, 1.35 mol) was added in one portion while stirring. The reaction
   temperature rose to 41 'C. The reaction was cooled to 0 - 5 'C. Triethylamine (258 mL, 1.84
25 mol) was added. After stirring 5 min, LCMS indicated reaction completion. The reaction
   solution was washed with water (500 mL) and brine (500 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, and
   concentrated to give the desired product (294 g, 119%) as a crude dark oil. LCMS for
                                                  44

   C6H 12N503 (M+H)*: m/z = 202.3. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6): 6 10.65 (s, 1 H), 6.27 (s,
   2 H), 6.10 (t, J= 6.5 Hz, I H), 3.50 (in, 2 H), 3.35 (d, J= 5.8 Hz, 2 H), 3.08 (s, 3 H).
   Step D: N'-Hydroxy-4- [(2-methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                            .,OH
                                                  HNH
                                                  O
                                                    NN
 5                                                     0
   4-Amino-N'-hydroxy-N-(2-methoxyethyl)-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide            (248.0 g,
   1.23 mol) was mixed with water (1 L). Potassium hydroxide (210 g, 3.7 mol) was added. The
   reaction was refluxed at 100 'C overnight (15 hours). TLC with 50% ethyl acetate
   (containing 1% ammonium hydroxide) in hexane indicated reaction completed (product Rf =
 0 0.6, starting material Rf = 0.5). LCMS also indicated reaction completion. The reaction was
   cooled to room temperature and extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 1 L). The combined ethyl
   acetate solution was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the desired product
   (201 g, 81%) as a crude off-white solid. LCMS for C6H12 N50     3 (M+H)*: m/z = 202.3 'H
   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.54 (s, 1 H), 6.22 (s, 2 H), 6.15 (t, J= 5.8 Hz, 1 H), 3.45 (t,
 5 J = 5.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.35 (in, 2 H), 3.22 (s, 3 H).
   Step E: N-Hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl           chloride
                                                              OH
                                                    N~
                                                    N, ,N
                                                       0
   At room temperature N'-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
20 carboximidamide (50.0 g, 0.226 mol) was dissolved in 6.0 M hydrochloric acid aqueous
   solution (250 mL, 1.5 mol). Sodium chloride (39.5 g, 0.676 mol) was added followed by
   water (250 mL) and ethyl acetate (250 mL). At 3-5 'C a previously prepared aqueous solution
   (100 mL) of sodium nitrite (15.0 g, 0.217 mol) was added slowly over 1 hr. The reaction was
   stirred at 3 - 8 'C for 2 hours and then room temperature over the weekend. LCMS indicated
25 reaction completed. The reaction solution was extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 200 mL). The
   combined ethyl acetate solution was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the
   desired product (49.9 g, 126%) as a crude white solid. LCMS for C 6HioCIN 4 0 3 (M+H)*: m/z
                                                 45

   = 221.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 8 13.43 (s, 1 H), 5.85 (t, J = 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 3.50 (t,
   J = 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 3.37(dd, J = 10.8, 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 3.25 (s, 3 H).
   Step F: N-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5
 5 oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                              H
                                      SN                              Br
                                                N,   N
                                                   0
   N-Hydroxy-4- [(2-methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl chloride (46.0 g,
   0.208 mol) was mixed with water (300 mL). The mixture was heated to 60 'C. 3-Bromo-4
   fluoroaniline [Oakwood products, product # 013091] (43.6 g, 0.229 mol) was added and
 0 stirred for 10 min. A warm sodium bicarbonate (26.3 g, 0.313 mol) solution (300 mL water)
   was added over 15 min. The reaction was stirred at 60 'C for 20 min. LCMS indicated
   reaction completion. The reaction solution was cooled to room temperature and extracted
   with ethyl acetate (2 x 300 mL). The combined ethyl acetate solution was dried over sodium
   sulfate and concentrated to give the desired product (76.7 g, 98%) as a crude brown solid.
 5 LCMS for C 12H14BrFN5O 3 (M+H)*: m/z = 374.0, 376.0. 1 H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6
   11.55 (s, 1 H), 8.85 (s, 1 H), 7.16 (t, J= 8.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.08 (dd, J= 6.1, 2.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.75 (m,
   1 H), 6.14 (t, J= 5.8 Hz, 1 H), 3.48 (t, J= 5.2 Hz, 2 H), 3.35 (dd, J= 10.8, 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 3.22
   (s, 3 H).
20 Step G: 4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3- {4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}
    1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                         -0o
                                                H         O
                                       ON                 N
                                            0,0
                                                 NsO,N    /
                                                            --....   Br
                                                                   F
   A mixture of N-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5
   oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide (76.5 g, 0.204 mol), 1,1'-carbonyldiimidazole (49.7 g, 0.307
25 mol), and ethyl acetate (720 mL) was heated to 60 'C and stirred for 20 min. LCMS indicated
   reaction completed. The reaction was cooled to room temperature, washed with I N HCI (2 x
   750 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, and concentrated to give the desired product (80.4 g,
                                                  46

   98%) as a crude brown solid. LCMS for C 1 3 H 12 BrFN5O 4 (M+H)*: m/z = 400.0, 402.0. IH
   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 7.94 (t, J = 8.2 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 (dd, J= 9.1, 2.3 Hz, 1 H), 7.42
   (in, I H), 6.42 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, I H), 3.46 (t, J= 5.4 Hz, 2 H), 3.36 (t, J= 5.8 Hz, 2 H), 3.26 (s,
   3 H).
 5
   Step H: 4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3- {4- [(2-hydroxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-ylI
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                H       '|     O
                                      HO        N           N
                                                  N   ,N    /
                                                                -     Br
                                                                 F
   4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3-{4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,4
 0 oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (78.4 g, 0.196 mol) was dissolved in dichloromethane (600 mL). At -67
   'C boron tribromide (37 mL, 0.392 mol) was added over 15 min. The reaction was warmed
   up to -10 'C in 30 min. LCMS indicated reaction completed. The reaction was stirred at room
   temperature for 1 hour. At 0 - 5 'C the reaction was slowly quenched with saturated sodium
   bicarbonate solution (1.5 L) over 30 min. The reaction temperature rose to 25 'C. The
 5 reaction was extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 500 mL, first extraction organic layer is on the
   bottom and second extraction organic lager is on the top). The combined organic layers were
   dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the desired product (75 g, 99%) as a crude
   brown solid. LCMS for C 12H1oBrFN 5 O 4 (M+H)*: m/z = 386.0, 388.0. IH NMR (400 MHz,
   DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.08 (dd, J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.70 (in, 1 H), 7.68 (t, J = 8.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.33 (t,
20 J = 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 4.85 (t, J= 5.0 Hz, I H), 3.56 (dd, J= 10.6, 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 3.29 (dd, J= 11.5,
   5.9 Hz, 2 H).
   Step I: 2-({4-[4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl I amino)ethyl methanesulfonate
                                                 H         0       o
                                     MsO         N           N
                                                   N,0N      /
                                                                  - .- Br
25                                                                F
                                                   47

   To a solution of 4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3-{4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol
   3-yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (1.5 kg, 3.9 mol, containing also some of the corresponding
   bromo-compound) in ethyl acetate (12 L) was added methanesulfonyl chloride (185 mL, 2.4
   mol) dropwise over 1 h at room temperature. Triethylamine (325 mL, 2.3 mol) was added
 5 dropwise over 45 min, during which time the reaction temperature increased to 35 'C. After
   2 h, the reaction mixture was washed with water (5 L), brine (1 L), dried over sodium sulfate,
   combined with 3 more reactions of the same size, and the solvents removed in vacuo to
   afford the desired product (7600 g, quantitative yield) as a tan solid. LCMS for
   C13HniBrFN5O6SNa (M+Na)*: m/z = 485.9, 487.9. IH NMR (400 MHz. DMSO-d): 5 8.08
 0 (dd, J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, I H), 7.72 (in, 1 H), 7.58 (t, J = 8.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.75 (t, J = 5.9 Hz, 1 H),
   4.36 (t, J= 5.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.58 (dd, J= 11.2, 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 3.18 (s, 3 H).
   Step J: 3-{4-[(2-Azidoethyl)amino]-1 ,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)
    1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                               H              o
                                      N3
                                       N       N           N
                                       3
                                                 N,   N
                                                    0
                                                               -.  Br
 5                                                              F
   To a solution of 2-({4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]
   1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}amino)ethyl methanesulfonate (2.13 kg, 4.6 mol, containing also some
   of the corresponding bromo-compound) in dimethylformamide (4 L) stirring in a 22 L flask
   was added sodium azide (380 g, 5.84 mol). The reaction was heated at 50 'C for 6 h, poured
20 into ice/water (8 L), and extracted with 1:1 ethyl acetate:heptane (20 L). The organic layer
   was washed with water (5 L) and brine (5 L), and the solvents removed in vacuo to afford the
   desired product (1464 g, 77%) as a tan solid. LCMS for C12HsBrFN8O3Na (M+Na)*: m/z =
   433.0, 435.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 8 8.08 (dd, J = 6.2. 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 (in, 1
   H), 7.58 (t, J = 8.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.75 (t, J = 5.7 Hz, 1 H), 3.54 (t, J = 5.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.45 (dd, J=
25  11.1, 5.2 Hz, 2 H).
   Step K: 3-{4-[(2-Aminoethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }-4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)
    1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydrochloride
                                                  48

                                                H          0     O
                                     H2N                     N
                                          HC1       0
                                                                 .... Br
                                                                F
   Sodium iodide (1080 g, 7.2 mol) was added to 3-{4-[(2-azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3
   yl } -4-(3 -bromo-4-fluorophenyl)- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-5 (4H)-one (500 g, 1.22 mol) in methanol (6
   L). The mixture was allowed to stir for 30 min during which time a mild exotherm was
 5 observed. Chlorotrimethylsilane (930 mL, 7.33 mol) was added as a solution in methanol (1
   L) dropwise at a rate so that the temperature did not exceed 35 'C, and the reaction was
   allowed to stir for 3.5 h at ambient temperature. The reaction was neutralized with 33 wt%
   solution of sodium thiosulfate pentahydrate in water (-1.5 L), diluted with water (4 L), and
   the pH adjusted to 9 carefully with solid potassium carbonate (250 g - added in small
 0 portions: watch foaming). Di-tert-butyl dicarbonate (318 g, 1.45 mol) was added and the
   reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature. Additional potassium carbonate (200 g)
   was added in 50 g portions over 4 h to ensure that the pH was still at or above 9. After
   stirring at room temperature overnight, the solid was filtered, triturated with water (2 L), and
   then MTBE (1.5 L). A total of 11 runs were performed (5.5 kg, 13.38 mol). The combined
 5 solids were triturated with 1:1 THF:dichloromethane (24 L, 4 runs in a 20 L rotary evaporator
   flask, 50 'C, 1 h), filtered, and washed with dichloromethane (3 L each run) to afford an off
   white solid. The crude material was dissolved at 55 'C tetrahydrofuran (5 mL/g), treated
   with decolorizing carbon (2 wt%) and silica gel (2 wt%), and filtered hot through celite to
   afford the product as an off-white solid (5122 g). The combined MTBE, THF, and
20 dichloromethane filtrates were concentrated in vacuo and chromatographed (2 kg silica gel,
   heptane with a 0-100% ethyl acetate gradient, 30 L) to afford more product (262 g). The
   combined solids were dried to a constant weight in a convection oven (5385 g, 83%).
   In a 22 L flask was charged hydrogen chloride (4 N solution in 1.,4-dioxane, 4 L, 16 mol).
25 tert-Butyl [2-({4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]
   1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}amino)ethyl]carbamate (2315 g, 4.77 mol) was added as a solid in
   portions over 10 min. The slurry was stirred at room temperature and gradually became a
   thick paste that could not be stirred. After sitting overnight at room temperature, the paste
   was slurried in ethyl acetate (10 L), filtered, re-slurried in ethyl acetate (5 L), filtered, and
30 dried to a constant weight to afford the desired product as a white solid (combined with other
                                                  49

   runs, 5 kg starting material charged, 4113 g, 95%). LCMS for Ci2HtiBrFN 603 (M+H)*: n/z
   = 384.9, 386.9. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 8 8.12 (m, 4 H), 7.76 (in, I H), 7.58 (t, J=
   8.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.78 (t, J = 6.1 Hz, I H), 3.51 (dd, J= 11.8, 6.1 Hz, 2 H), 3.02 (in, 2 H).
 5 Step L: tert-Butyl ({[2-({4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol
   3-yl] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl Iamino)ethyl] amino sulfonyl)carbamate
                                       RI 1         H        -0=O=o
                                 BocHNSN    --      N         N
                                             H
                                                                  - . Br
                                                                  F
   A 5 L round bottom flask was charged with chlorosulfonyl isocyanate [Aldrich, product #
   142662] (149 mL, 1.72 mol) and dichloromethane (1.5 L) and cooled using an ice bath to 2
 0 'C. tert-Butanol (162 mL, 1.73 mol) in dichloromethane (200 mL) was added dropwise at a
   rate so that the temperature did not exceed 10 'C. The resulting solution was stirred at room
   temperature for 30-60 min to provide tert-butyl [chlorosulfonyl]carbamate.
   A 22 L flask was charged with 3-{4-[(2-aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-(3
 5 bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydrochloride (661 g, 1.57 mol) and 8.5 L
   dichloromethane. After cooling to -15 'C with an ice/salt bath, the solution of tert-butyl
   [chlorosulfonyl]carbamate (prepared as above) was added at a rate so that the temperature did
   not exceed -10 'C (addition time 7 min). After stirring for 10 min, triethylamine (1085 mL,
   7.78 mol) was added at a rate so that the temperature did not exceed -5 'C (addition time 10
20 min). The cold bath was removed, the reaction was allowed to warm to 10 'C, split into two
   portions, and neutralized with 10% conc HCl (4.5 L each portion). Each portion was
   transferred to a 50 L separatory funnel and diluted with ethyl acetate to completely dissolve
   the white solid (-25 L). The layers were separated, and the organic layer was washed with
   water (5 L), brine (5 L), and the solvents removed in vacuo to afford an off-white solid. The
25 solid was triturated with MTBE (2 x 1.5 L) and dried to a constant weight to afford a white
   solid. A total of 4113 g starting material was processed in this manner (5409 g, 98%). 1 H
   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.90 (s, 1 H), 8.08 (dd, J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 (m, 1 H).
   7.59 (t, J= 8.6 Hz, 1 H), 6.58 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 1 H), 3.38 (dd, J= 12.7, 6.2 Hz, 2 H), 3.10 (dd, J
   =  12.1, 5.9 Hz, 2 H), 1.41 (s, 9 H).
30
                                                 50

   Step M: N-[2-({4-[4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]
   1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl Iamino)ethyl] sulfamide
                                     RO 1P        H                o
                                  H2N'N           N          N
                                                    N,   N
                                                                -    Br
                                                                  F
   To a 22 L flask containing 98:2 trifluoroacetic acid:water (8.9 L) was added tert-butyl ({ [2
 5 ( 4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3
   yl}amino)ethyl]amino}sulfonyl)carbamate (1931 g, 3.42 mol) in portions over 10 minutes.
   The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h, the solvents removed in
   vacuo, and chased with dichloromethane (2 L). The resulting solid was treated a second time
   with fresh 98:2 trifluoroacetic acid:water (8.9 L), heated for 1 h at 40-50 'C, the solvents
 0 removed in vacuo, and chased with dichloromethane (3 x 2 L). The resulting white solid
   was dried in a vacuum drying oven at 50 'C overnight. A total of 5409 g was processed in
   this manner (4990 g, quant. yield). LCMS for C2HI2BrFN 7 05S (M+H)*: m/z = 463.9, 465.9.
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 5 8.08 (dd, J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 (in, 1 H), 7.59 (t, J =
   8.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.67 (t, J = 5.9 Hz, 1H), 6.52 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 3.38 (dd, J = 12.7, 6.3 Hz, 2
 5 H), 3.11 (dd, J= 12.3, 6.3 Hz).
   Step N: 4-({2- [ (Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl Iamino)-N-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'
   hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
20 To a crude mixture of N-[2-({4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4
   oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl amino)ethyl]sulfamide (2.4 mol) containing residual
   amounts of trifluoroacetic acid stirring in a 22 L flask was added THF (5 L). The resulting
   solution was cooled to 0 'C using an ice bath and 2 N NaOH (4 L) was added at a rate so that
   the temperature did not exceed 10 'C. After stirring at ambient temperature for 3 h (LCMS
25 indicated no starting material remained), the pH was adjusted to 3-4 with concentrated HCI
   (-500 mL). The THF was removed in vacuo, and the resulting mixture was extracted with
   ethyl acetate (15 L). The organic layer was washed with water (5 L), brine (5 L), and the
   solvents removed in vacuo to afford a solid. The solid was triturated with MTBE (2 x 2 L),
   combined with three other reactions of the same size, and dried overnight in a convection
30 oven to afford a white solid (3535 g). The solid was recrystallized (3 x 22 L flasks, 2:1
                                                 51

  water:ethanol, 14.1 L each flask) and dried in a 50 'C convection oven to a constant weight to
  furnish the title compound as an off-white solid (3290 g, 78%). LCMS for CnH14BrFN 70 4S
  (M+H)*: m/z = 437.9, 439.9. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 5 11.51 (s, 1 H), 8.90 (s, 1 H),
  7.17 (t, J= 8.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.11 (dd, J= 6.1, 2.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.76 (m, I H), 6.71 (t, J= 6.0 Hz, 1
5 H), 6.59 (s., 2 H), 6.23 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, I H), 3.35 (dd, J= 10.9, 7.0 Hz, 2 H), 3.10 (dd, J= 12.1,
  6.2 Hz, 2 H).
  The final product was an anhydrous crystalline solid. The water content was determined to be
  less than 0.1% by Karl Fischer titration. The X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) pattern was
0 determined (Rigaku MiniFlex Powder Diffractometer; Cu at 1.054056A with KP filter; start
  angle = 3, stop angle = 45, sampling = 0.02, scan speed = 2) and is shown in Figure 1. A list
  of 2-theta peaks is provided in Table 1 below. The melting range of the solid was
  determined on a Mettler Toledo Differential Scanning Caloimetry (DSC) 822 instrument.
  The sample was heated from 40 'C to 240 'C at a heating rate of 10 'C per min. The DSC
5 thermogram (Figure 2) showed a Tonset at 162.7 'C and Tpeak at 163.8 'C. Thermogravimetric
  analysis (TGA) (Figure 3) showed weight loss of 0.3%, heating from 20 'C to 150 'C at a
  heating rate of 10 'C/min using a TA Instrument Q500.
                                                 Table 1
                                   2-Theta          Height        H%
                                             3.9             74        1.1
                                             7.2            119        1.8
                                            13.4            180       2.8
                                            14.0            150       2.3
                                            15.9             85        1.3
                                            18.4            903      13.9
                                            18.9           1469      22.7
                                            21.3            519          8
                                            21.8           6472       100
                                            22.7            516          8
                                            23.9           2515      38.9
                                            24.8            804      12.4
                                            25.3            182       2.8
                                            27.4            476       7.4
                                            28.6            354       5.5
                                            29.2           1767      27.3
                                            29.9            266       4.1
                                            30.6            773      11.9
                                            31.2            379       5.8
                                            31.6            291       4.5
                                            32.7            144       2.2
                                                 52

                                              33.5                221      3.4
                                              36.4                469      7.2
                                              37.6                152      2.3
                                              38.7               1381    21.3
                                              41.0                153      2.4
                                              42.1                382      5.9
                                              43.6                527      8.1
                                              44.4               1080     16.7
   Example 2
   N-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({2-[(methylsulfonyl)amino]ethyl}amino)
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                                0H       F
                                    004          H          |          |
                                   -S' N         N              N        Br
                                         H         NN           H
 5                                                   0
   The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 17 step E, using
   N'-hydroxy-4-( {2- [(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl } amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide and 3-bromo-4-fluoroaniline [Oakwood Products, Inc., product # 013091]
   as the starting materials. LCMS for C 1 2H 15BrFN 6O 4S (M+H)+: m/z = 437.0, 439.0. IH
 0 NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 11.49 (s, IH), 8.90 (s, 1H), 7.17 (m, 2H), 7.09 (dd, J= 6.3,
   2.5 Hz, 1H), 6.26 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 1H), 3.33 (m, 2H), 3.13 (q, J= 6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.89 (s, 3H).
   Example 3
   4-({3-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]propyl}amino)-N-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy
15 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                                   OH        F
                                         H          H           Y        |
                               H2N      -NN                        N         Br
                                  0 0       ~                      H
                                                      N, ,N
                                                        0
   Step A: 3-(4-Amino-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)-4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol
   5(4H)-one
                                           H2N           N
                                               N   N
                                                          --...     Br
                                                                F
                                                   53

   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 5, step A, using
   4-amino-N-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximid amide [see
   U. S. Pat. App. Pub. No. 2006/0258719] as the starting material in 98% yield. LCMS for
   C1 0 H 6 BrFN 5 0 3 (M+H)+: m/z = 342.0, 344.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.06
 5 (dd, J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 - 7.67 (in, 1 H), 7.58 (dd, J = 8.7, 8.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.60 (s, 2 H).
   Step B: N-{4-[4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl }-2,2,2-trifluoroacetamide
                                              H         |             O
                                      F3C     N'/    \     N
                                           0    NON        /
                                                   0
                                                             -.          Br
                                                                   F
 0 The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 5, step B, using
   3-(4-amino- 1,2,5 -oxadiazol-3 -yl)-4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-5 (4H)-one as
   the starting material in 81% yield. LCMS for C 1 2 H 5 BrF4 N 5 0           4 (M+H)+: m/z = 437.9,
   439.9. 1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 5 7.92           - 7.89 (m, I H), 7.54       - 7.52 (in, 2 H).
 5 Step C: 4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3- { 4- [(3-methoxypropyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                 H           0          o
                                                                N
                                                   N       N
                                                   N,N0         /
                                                                  --.-      Br
                                                                       F
   A solution of 3-methoxypropan-1-ol [Fluka product # 38457] (3.1 mL, 32 mmol) and
   triphenylphosphine (8.4 g, 32 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (93 mL) at 0 'C was treated with
20 diisopropyl azodicarboxylate (6.7 mL, 34 mmol) dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred
   at 0 'C for 15 min, treated with a solution of N-{4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5
   dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl } -2,2,2-trifluoroacetamide (10 g, 23
   mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (47 mL), and stirred at 25 'C for 72 h. The reaction mixture was
   concentrated, diluted with ethyl acetate (200 mL), treated with trifluoroacetic acid (20 mL)
25 and water (20 mL), and heated at 50 'C for 6 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated,
                                                  54

   rediluted with ethyl acetate (200 mL) and washed with water (3 x 80 mL), saturated sodium
   bicarbonate (2 x 80 mL) and brine (80 mL), dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate., filtered,
   and concentrated to a crude residue. This material was purified on silica gel to give the
   desired product (6.4 g, 54%) as a white solid. LCMS for C 14 H 1 4 BrFN 5 0 4 (M+H)+: m/z =
 5 414.0, 416.0.
   Step D: 4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3-{4-[(3-hydroxypropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                    HONN                   N
                                                                   Br
                                                               F
 0 A solution of 4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3-{4-[(3-methoxypropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol
   3-yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (6.3 g, 14 mmol) in dichloromethane (60 mL) at -78 'C was
   treated with 1 M boron tribromide in dichloromethane (28 mL, 28 mmol) and stirred at 25 'C
   for 2 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 'C and quenched with saturated sodium
   bicarbonate (100 mL). The aqueous layer was separated and extracted with dichloromethane
 5 (2 x 150 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with brine (100 mL), dried over
   anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to a crude off-white solid. This material
   was purified on silica gel to give the desired product (4.0 g, 73%) as a white solid. LCMS for
   C1 3 H12BrFN 5 0  4 (M+H)+: m/z = 400.0, 402.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6): 6 8.07
   (dd, J= 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 - 7.68 (in, 1 H), 7.59 (dd, J= 8.8, 8.6 Hz, 1 H), 6.54 (t, J= 5.7
20 Hz, 1 H), 4.60 (t, J= 5.1 Hz, 1 H), 3.48 - 3.43 (in, 2 H), 3.32 - 3.26 (in, 2 H), 1.74 - 1.67 (m,
   2H).
   StepE: 3- {4-[(3-Azidopropyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }-4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                H          O    O
                                                           N
                                                  NN     N
                                                  N ,N /
                                                                   Br
25                                                             F
                                                 55

   A solution of 4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3-{4-[(3-hydroxypropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3
   yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (3.0 g, 7.5 mmol) in dichloromethane (27 mL) was treated
   with methanesulfonyl chloride (0.75 mL, 9.7 mmol) and N,N-diisopropylethylamine (2.6 mL,
   15 mmol) and stirred at 25 'C for 2 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with water (20 mL)
 5 and extracted with dichloromethane (20 rnL). The organic layer was separated, dried over
   anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to give the mesylate which was used
   without further purification. A solution of the crude mesylate in NN-dimethylformamide (24
   mL) was treated with sodium azide (0.73 g, 11 mmol) and heated at 85 'C for 2 h. The
   reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate (300 mL) and washed with water (100 mL),
 0 saturated sodium bicarbonate (100 mL), and brine (100 mL), dried over anhydrous sodium
   sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to give the desired product (3.2 g, 99%). This material was
   used without further purification. LCMS for C1 3 H1 0 BrFN 8 0 3 Na (M+Na)+: m/z = 446.9,
   448.9.
 5 Step F: 3-{4- [(3-Aminopropyl)amino]- 1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }-4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide
                                    HI
                                                 H        N'I
                                    H2N_-A       N            N
                                                   N,0 ,N
                                                               -.     Br
                                                                  F
   A solution of 3-{4-L(3-azidopropyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-(3-bromo-4
   fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (2.0 g, 4.7 mmol) in methanol (36 mL) was treated
20 with sodium iodide (4.2 g, 28 mmol) and stirred at 25 'C for 5 min. The reaction mixture
   was treated with a solution of chlorotrimethylsilane (3.6 mL, 28 mmol) in methanol (7 mL)
   dropwise and stirred at 25 'C for 40 min. The reaction mixture was slowly poured into a
   solution of sodium thiosulfate (5.0 g, 32 mmol) in water (200 mL) that was cooled at 0 'C.
   The solid that precipitated was filtered, washed with water, and dried to give the desired
25 product (2.3 g, 93%) as a solid. LCMS for C1 3 H1 3 BrFN 6 0     3  (M+H)+: m/z = 399.0, 401.0.
   1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6): 5 8.08 (dd, J= 6.1, 2.3 Hz, 1 H), 7.74 - 7.70 (in, 1 H), 7.60
   (dd, J= 8.8, 8.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.22 (br s, 2 H), 6.69 (br s, 1 H), 2.81 - 2.77 (m, 2 H), 1.86 - 1.79
   (m, 2 H).
                                                 56

   Step G: N-[3-({4-[4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]
   1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl Iamino)propyl] sulfamide
                                          H           H               o
                                  H2N     N           N         N
                                      O O               N  N     /
                                                                   -.     Br
                                                                        F
   A solution of 3-{4- [(3-aminopropyl)amino] -1,2,5 -oxadiazol-3 -yl}-4-(3-bromo-4
 5 fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide (150 mg, 0.28 mmol) and sulfamide
   (160 mg, 1.7 mmol) in pyridine (2.5 mL) was heated in a microwave at 130 'C for 10 min.
   The reaction mixture was concentrated to give a crude residue. This material was purified
   by preparative LCMS to give the desired product (96 mg, 71%) as a solid. LCMS for
   C 1 3 H 1 4 BrFN70 5 S (M+H)+: m/z = 478.0, 480.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.07
 0 (dd, J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, I H), 7.73 - 7.69 (in, 1 H), 7.59 (dd, J = 8.8, 8.6 Hz, I H), 6.57 - 6.51 (in,
   4 H), 3.31 - 3.26 (m, 2 H), 2.92 - 2.87 (in, 2 H), 1.79 - 1.72 (in, 2 H).
   Step H: 4-({ 3- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino]propyl Iamino)-N-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'
   hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
 5
   A solution of N-[3-({4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3
   yl]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}amino)propyl]sulfamide (35 mg, 73 .mol) in methanol (1 mL) was
   treated with 2 M NaOH (0.3 mL, 0.6 mmol) and stirred at 25 'C for 30 min. The reaction
   mixture was treated with acetic acid (50       L, 0.9 mmol), filtered, and purified by preparative
20 LCMS to give the desired product (14 mg, 42%) as a solid. LCMS for C 1 2 H1 6 BrFN 7 0 4 S
   (M+H)+: m/z = 451.8, 453.9.        1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6): 6 11.5 (s, 1 H), 8.89 (s, I
   H), 7.17 (dd, J= 8.8, 8.6 Hz, I H), 7.09 (dd, J= 6.1, 2.7 Hz, I H), 6.76 - 6.72 (in, I H), 6.56
   (dd, J= 6.1, 6.1 Hz, 1 H), 6.51 (s, 2 H), 6.17 (dd, J= 5.9. 5.9 Hz, 1 H), 3.27 - 3.21 (in, 2 H),
   2.94 - 2.88 (in, 2 H)., 1.78 - 1.71 (in, 2 H).
25
   Example 4
   N-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({3-[(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyljamino)
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                   57

                                                          .OH       F
                                     H          H             H     F
                                                   E-  NN           Br
                                 0 0             N,   N
                                                    0
   Step A: tert-Butyl  13- [(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl Icarbamate
                                              0               R001
                                           0     N         N
                                                 H         H
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 17, step A,
 5 using N-(3-aminopropyl)(tert-butoxy)carboxamide [Aldrich product # 436992] as the starting
   material in 70% yield. LCMS for C4 H 1 3 N 2 0 2 S ([M-Boc+H]+H)+: m/z = 153.1.
   Step B: N-(3-Aminopropyl)methanesulfonamide hydrochloride
                                                        S0
                                                        R, 1P
                                          H2N          N
                                           HCI         H
 0 The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 17, step B,
   using tert-butyl 13-[(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl carbamate as the starting material.
   LCMS for C4 H 1 3 N2 0 2 S (M+H)+: m/z = 153.1.
   Step C: 4-Amino-N'-hydroxy-N-{3-[(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl}-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
 5 carboximidamide
                                                 N OH
                                     H2 N                         S
                                                   N           N'
                                             NN    H           H
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 17, step C,
   using N-(3-aminopropyl)methanesulfonamide hydrochloride and 4-amino-N-hydroxy-1,2,5
   oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl chloride [made according to Example 1, steps A through B] as
20 the starting materials in 19% yield.
   Step D: N'-Hydroxy-4- (f{3- [(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl }amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide
                                                58

                                                                 N,OH
                                          N          NN
                                                         S          NH2
                                     0   0             N ,C N
                                                           O
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 17, step D,
   using 4-amino-N'-hydroxy-N- {3-(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl }-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide as the starting material. LCMS for C7 H 1 5 N 6 0 4 S (M+H)+: m/z = 279.0.
 5
   Step E: N-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({3
   [(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl I amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
   The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 17, step E, using
 0 N'-hydroxy-4-(13- [(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl }amino)- 1,2.,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide and 3-bromo-4-fluoroaniline [Oakwood Products, Inc., product # 013091]
   as the starting materials in 12% yield. LCMS for C1 3 H1 7 BrFN60 4 S (M+H)+: m/z = 451.0,
   453.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 8 7.12 (dd, J= 5.9, 2.4 Hz, 1H), 7.05 (t, J = 8.7 Hz.,
   IH), 6.83 (in, 1H), 3.39 (t, J= 6.8 Hz, 2H), 3.14 (t, J= 6.6 Hz, 2H), 2.94 (s, 3H), 1.87 (in,
 5 2H).
   Example 5
   4-({2-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]ethyllamino)-N-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                             0 OH       F
                                 H2N'N        N               N         CI
                                        H         N,    N      H
20                                                   0
   Step A: 3-(4-Amino-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)-4-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol
   5(41)-one
                                        H2N            N
                                            N   -N     /
                                                         -.-     CI
                                                             F
                                                59

   A solution of 4-amino-N-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide (80 g, 0.29 mol) [see US Pat. App. Pub. No. 2006/0258719] in
   tetrahydrofuran (500 mL) was treated with a solution of 1,1'-carbonyldiimidazole (53 g, 0.32
   mol) in tetrahydrofuran (200 mL) and heated at reflux for I h. The reaction mixture was
 5 cooled to 25 'C and concentrated to the point where a large amount of solid precipitated. The
   heterogeneous mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate (1.5 L) and washed with 1 N HCl (2 x
   300 mL), water (300 mL), and brine (200 mL). The organic layer was separated, dried over
   anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to give the desired product (88 g,
   quantitative) as an off-white solid. This material was used without further purification.
 0 LCMS for C 1oH 6ClFN5 O 3 (M+H)+: m/z = 298.0.         1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 6 7.96
   (dd, J = 6.6, 2.3 Hz, 1 H), 7.69 - 7.60 (in, 2 H), 6.60 (s, 2 H).
   Step B: N-{4-[4-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2.5
   oxadiazol-3-yl }-2,2,2-trifluoroacetamide
                                              H             >| O
                                      F3C     N           N
                                           o    NN        /
 5                                                             F
   A solution of 3-(4-amino-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)-4-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol
   5(4H)-one (15 g, 50 mmol) in dichloromethane (120 mL) was treated with trifluoroacetic
   anhydride (14 mL, 100 mmol), cooled to 0 'C, and treated with pyridine (8.2 mL, 100 mmol).
   The reaction mixture was stirred at 25 'C for 10 min, cooled to 0 'C, and quenched with
20 water (10 mL). The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate (500 ml) and washed
   with 1 N HCl (300 mL), water (2 x 200 mL), and brine (200 mL). The organic layer was
   separated, dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to -50 mL volume.
   This solution was warmed (-40-50 C) and treated with hexanes (600 mL) under vigorous
   stirring, followed by petroleum ether (200 mL). The mixture was stirred at 0 'C for 30 min
25 and the solid was collected by filtration, washed with hexanes, and dried to give the desired
   product (19.7 g, 99%) as a white solid. LCMS for C1 2H 5 ClF4 N 5 0  4 (M+H)+: m/z = 394.0.
    1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d/): 8 7.82 (dd, J = 6.6. 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.59 (dd, J = 9.0. 9.0 Hz,
   I H), 7.52 - 7.47 (in., 1 H).
                                                  60

   StepC: 4-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-3-(4-{ [2-(tritylamino)ethyl] amino }-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3
   yl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                    Ph Ph          H                   o
                                    Ph'   N      N              N
                                          H
                                                     N ,N       /
                                                                  - .    CI
                                                                      F
   A solution of 2-(tritylamino)ethanol (10 g, 33 mmol) [EP599220 and J. Org. Chen. (2001),
 5 66, 7615] and triphenylphosphine (8.7 g, 33 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (65 mL) at 0 'C was
   treated with diisopropyl azodicarboxylate (7.0 mL, 35 mmol) dropwise. The reaction mixture
   was stirred at 0 'C for 15 min, treated with a solution of N-{4-[4-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)
   5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-2,2,2-trifluoroacetamide       (9.3
   g, 24 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (28 mL), and stirred at 25 'C for 16 h. The reaction mixture
 0 was concentrated, diluted with ethyl acetate (350 mL), cooled to 0 'C, treated with I N HCI
   (200 mL), and stirred at 25 'C for 1 h. The reaction mixture was treated with additional I N
   HCI (150 mL) and stirred at 25 'C for 3 h. The organic layer was separated, washed with
   saturated sodium bicarbonate (200 mL) and brine (100 mL), dried over anhydrous sodium
   sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to a yellow foam which was reconcentrated from hexanes
 5 to give an oily solid. The oily solid was treated with methyl tert-butyl ether (50 mL) and
   stirred to give a heterogeneous mixture. The solid was filtered, washed with methyl tert
   butyl ether (30 mL), and dried to give the desired product (10 g, 74%) as a white solid.
   LCMS for C 3 1H 2 4 CIFN 6 0 3 Na (M+Na)+: m/z = 605.2. IH NMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d6):
   8 7.97 (dd, J = 6.7, 2.6 Hz, I H), 7.71 - 7.66 (in, I H), 7.60 (dd, J= 9.1. 8.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.40
20 7.37 (in, 6 H), 7.28 - 7.23 (in, 6 H), 7.18 - 7.12 (m, 3 H), 6.59 (dd, J= 5.9, 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 3.37
   - 3.31 (in, 2 H), 2.96 (dd, J= 7.6, 7.6 Hz, 1 H), 2.27 - 2.19 (in, 2 H).
   SteplD: 3-{4- [(2-Aminoethyl)amino] -1,2,5 -oxadiazol-3-yl }-4-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydrochloride
                                             HCI          N'O
                                                H              X=
                                                  NHX,-N     /
25                                                                  F
                                                  61

   A premixed solution of triisopropylsilane (3.4 mL, 17 mmol) and trifluoroacetic acid (44 mL,
   570 mmol) was added to 4-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-3-(4-{[2-(tritylamino)ethyl] amino }
   1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (6.5 g, 11 mmol) and the resulting
   suspension was stirred at 25 'C for 30 min. The reaction mixture was filtered and washed
 5 with trifluoroacetic acid. The filtrate was concentrated to an oil which was diluted with
   methanol (25 mL), cooled to 0 'C, treated with 4 M HCl in 1,4-dioxane (14 mL), and stirred
   at 25 'C for 15 min. The mixture was concentrated to a solid that was treated with diethyl
   ether (50 mL) and filtered. The solid was washed with diethyl ether (50 mL) and dried to
   give the desired product (4.1 g, 98%) as a white solid. LCMS for C 1 2 HI ICIFN6 0    3
 0 (M+H)+: m/z = 341.1. IH NMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.05 - 8.00 (in, 4 H), 7.75 - 7.69
   (in, I H), 7.64 (dd, J= 9.1, 8.8 Hz, I H), 6.77 (dd, J= 5.9, 5.9 Hz, I H), 3.54 - 3.47 (in, 2 H),
   3.04 - 2.99 (in, 2 H).
   Step E: N-[2-({4-[4-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]
 5 1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl amino)ethyl]sulfamide
                                       0P         H      N         o
                                   H2 N'S'N       N         N
                                          H
                                                             .- .    CI
                                                                  F
   A solution of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate (2.0 mL, 23 mmol) in dichloromethane (70 mL) was
   treated with t-butyl alcohol (2.2 mL, 23 mmol) at 0 'C and stirred at 25 'C for I h. This
   mixture was added to a suspension of 3-{4-[2-aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4
20 (3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydrochloride (4.3 g, 11 mmol) in
   dichloromethane (70 mL). The reaction mixture was treated with a solution of triethylamine
   (6.3 mL, 45 mmol) in dichloromethane (20 mL) at 0 'C and stirred at 25 'C for 3 h. The
   reaction mixture was diluted with 0.1 N HCI and extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 100 mL).
   The combined organic layers were washed with brine (100 mL), dried over anhydrous
25 sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to a white solid. The white solid was diluted with
   dichloromethane (100 mL), treated with trifluoroacetic acid (20 mL), and stirred at 25 'C for
   3 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated to a crude residue that was purified by silica gel
   chromatography to give the desired product (3.7 g, 78%) as a white solid. LCMS for
   C 1 2 H 1 2 ClFN 7 0 5 S (M+H)+: m/z = 420.0. IH NMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 7.98 (dd, J=
                                                 62

   6.4, 2.1 Hz, 1 H), 7.70 - 7.60 (m, 2 H), 6.66 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 1 H), 6.57 (s, 2 H), 6.52 (t, J= 5.9
   Hz, I H), 3.42 - 3.35 (m, 2 H), 3.13 - 3.06 (m, 2 H).
   Step F: 4-( 2- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl Iamino)-N-(3 -chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-N'
 5 hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
   A solution of N-[2-({4-[4-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3
   yl]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}amino)ethyl]sulfamide (3.7 g, 8.8 mmol) in methanol (70 mL) was
   treated with 2 M NaOH (18 mL, 35 mmol) and stirred at 25 'C for 2 h. The reaction mixture
 0 was quenched with 6 N HCl to pH-7 and the methanol was removed under reduced pressure.
   The solid that precipitated was filtered and washed with water to give the desired product (3.2
   g, 92%) as a white solid. LCMS for C I1 H 1 4 CIFN 7 0 4 S (M+H)+: m/z = 394.0. IH NMR
   (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 5 7.96 (dd, J= 6.8, 2.1 Hz, 0.05 H), 7.32 - 7.29 (m, 0.1 H), 7.18 (dd,
   J= 9.1, 9.1 Hz, 0.95 H), 6.93 (dd, J= 6.4, 2.7 Hz, 0.95 H), 6.71 - 6.66 (m, 0.95 H), 6.33 (br s,
 5 1 H), 3.35 - 3.27 (in, 2 H), 3.10 - 3.06 (m, 2 H).
   Example 6
   N-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-( {2- [(methylsulfonyl)amino]ethyl}amino)
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                               H                    F
                                    S N        N          N         C
20                                                 0
   The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 17 step E, using
   N'-hydroxy-4-(12-[(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl I amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide and 3-chloro-4-fluoroaniline [Aldrich, product # 228583] as the starting
   materials. LCMS for C1 2 H 15 CFN6 0 4 S (M+H)+: m/z = 393.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO
25 d6): 8 11.50 (s, 1H), 8.91 (s, 1H), 7.19 (m, 2H), 6.96 (dd, J= 6.7, 2.5 Hz, IH), 6.71 (m, IH),
   6.26 (t, J= 6.4 Hz, 1H), 3.32 (m, 2H), 3.13 (q, J= 5.8 Hz, 2H), 2.89 (s, 3H).
   Example 7
   4-({3-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]propyl}amino)-N-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy
30 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                 63

                                                                 OH      F
                                       H           H           0         F
                                H2N    NNN                      N        CI
                                   0 0               N,    N
                                                        0
   Step A: 3-[(Diphenylmethylene)amino]propan-1-ol
                                          Ph      N           OH
                                               Ph
   A solution of 3-amino-1-propanol [Aldrich product # A76400] (2.0 mL, 26 mmol) in
 5 dichloromethane (79 mL) was treated with benzophenone imine (4.4 mL, 26 mmol) and
   stirred at 25 'C for 16 h. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated
   to give the desired product (6.3 g, quantitative) as an oil. This material was used without
   further purification. LCMS for C 1 6 H1I 8 NO (M+H)+: m/z = 240.2.
 0 Step B: 3-{4- [(3-Aminopropyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }-4-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one trifluoroacetate
                                              TFA            -0
                                                 HO
                                                               N
                                                   N,     N
                                                      0
                                                                  -  CI
                                                                   F
   A solution of 3-[(diphenylmethylene)amino]propan-1-ol (80 mg, 0.33 mmol) and
   triphenylphosphine (93 mg, 0.36 mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (1 mL) at 0 'C was treated with
15 diisopropyl azodicarboxylate (75 tL, 0.38 mmol) dropwise. The reaction mixture was stirred
   at 0 'C for 15 min, treated with a solution of N-{4-[4-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5
   dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-2,2,2-trifluoroacetamide      (100 mg, 0.25
   mmol) in tetrahydrofuran (0.5 mL), and stirred at 25 'C for 16 h. The reaction mixture was
   treated with trifluoroacetic acid (1 mL), stirred at 25 'C for 3 h, and concentrated to a crude
20 residue. This material was purified by preparative LCMS to give the desired product (18 mg,
   15%). LCMS for C 1 3 H 1 3 ClFN 6 0  3 (M+H)+: m/z = 355.1
   Step C: 4- ({3- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] propyl } amino)-N-(3 -chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-N'
   hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
25 The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 15, step G,
   using 3-{4-[(3-aminopropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4
                                                  64

   oxadiazol-5(4H)-one trifluoroacetate as the starting material in 34% yield. LCMS for
   C1 2 H1 6 CIFN 7 0 4 S (M+H)+: m/z = 408.1. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 6 8.90 (s, 1
   H), 7.20 (dd, J = 9.2, 9.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.96 (dd, J = 6.4, 2.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.72 - 6.69 (m, I H), 6.55
   (t, J= 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.51 (s, 2 H), 6.16 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 1 H), 3.28 - 3.21 (m, 2 H), 2.93 - 2.87
 5 (m, 2 H), 1.76 - 1.72 (m, 2 H).
   Example 8
   N-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({3-         [(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl}amino)
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                            S-O H       F
                                     H           H        Y         |
                                     N           N           N         CI
                                 0 0               N,   N
 0                                                    0
   The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 4, step E, using N'
   hydroxy-4-({ 3- [(methylsulfonyl)amino] propyl } amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
   [made according to Example 4, steps A through D] and 3-chloro-4-fluoroaniline [Aldrich,
   product # 228583] as the starting materials in 10% yield. LCMS for C13 H17C1FN 6 0 4 S
 5 (M+H)*: m/z = 407.1- 1H NMR (400 MHz, CD30D): 8 7.06 (t, J = 8.9 Hz, 1H), 6.98 (m,
   IH), 6.80 (m, 1H), 3.73 (m, 2H), 3.28 (m, 2H), 2.94 (s, 3H), 1.28 (m, 2H).
   Example 9
   4-({2-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]ethyl}amino)-N-[4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyll-N'
20 hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboxiinidamide
                                                           OOH         F
                                H2N     H                              CF3
                                        H         N,    N   H
                                                     0
   Step A: N- [4-Fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] -N'-hydroxy-4- [(2-methoxyethyl)amino]
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                        0H
                                                      N
                                    MeO                   NH
                                                 N, ,N            CF 3
                                                                F
                                                  65

   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step A,
   using N-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl            chloride
   [made according to Example 1, steps A through E] and 3-trifluoromethyl-4-fluoroaniline
   [Aldrich, product # 217778] as the starting materials in quantitative yield. LCMS for
 5 C 13H 1 4F4N5O3 (M+H)+: m/z = 364.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, CD30D): 6 7.15 (m, 2 H), 7.08
   (m, IH), 3.60 (t, J= 5.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.46 (t, J= 5.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.38 (s, 3 H).
   Step B: 4-[4-Fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-{4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                     N 10    O
                                    MeO        H          N
                                                N, - N            CF3
                                                   0
 0                                                             F
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step B,
   using N-[4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-N'-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5
   oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide as the starting material in 79% yield. LCMS for
   C14H]2F 4N504 (M+H)+: m/z = 390.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6): 68.20 (dd, J= 6.3,
 5 2.4 Hz, 1 H), 8.03 (m, 1 H), 7.76 (t, J= 9.5 Hz, 1 H), 6.41 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, I H), 3.49 (t, J= 5.5
   Hz, 2 H), 3.39 (q, J = 5.7 Hz, 2 H), 3.25 (s, 3 H).
   Step C: 4-[4-Fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-14-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                       N
                                              H~         N
                                               N, -N              CF3
20                                                             F
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step C,
   using 4- [4-fluoro-3 -(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] -3-14- [(2-methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5 -oxadiazol
   3-yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in 99% yield. LCMS for
   C13HioF4N5O4 (M+H)+: m/z = 376.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 6 8.22 (m, 1 H),
25 8.05 (m, 1 H), 7.76 (t, J = 9.9 Hz, 1 H), 6.34 (t, J = 5.7 Hz, 1 H), 4.87 (t, J = 5.2 Hz, 1 H),
   3.56 (q, J = 5.5 Hz, 2 H), 3.29 (q, J = 5.7 Hz, 2 H).
                                                 66

   Step D: 2-[(4-{4-[4-Fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3
   yl }-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)amino] ethyl methanesulfonate
                                    MsO        H         N
                                                         N
                                                 N 0N         -     CF3
                                                                 F
 5 The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step D,
   using 4- [4-fluoro-3 -(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] -3-{4- [(2-hydroxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5 -oxadiazol
   3-yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in 95% yield. LCMS for
   C 14H  1 2F4N506S  (M+H)+: m/z = 454.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.23 (dd, J=
   6.5, 2.5 Hz, I H), 8.06 (m, 1 H), 7.76 (t, J = 9.6 Hz, 1 H), 6.76 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 1 H), 4.37 (t, J
 0 = 5.4 Hz, 2 H), 3.60 (q, J= 5.5 Hz, 2 H), 3.17 (s, 3 H).
   Step E: 3-{4-[(2-Azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[4-fluoro-3
   (trifluoromethyl)phenyl] -1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(41H)-one
                                                            O
                                       N3           N NN
                                                N, -N              CF3
                                                                F
 5 The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step E,
   using 2-[(4-{4-[4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3
   yl }- 1,2 .5-oxadiazol-3-yl)amino] ethyl methanesulfonate as the starting material in 100%
   yield. LCMS for C 13 H9 F4 N 60  3 (M-N 2+H)+: m/z = 372.8. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ):
   8 8.22 (dd, J = 6.2, 2.4 Hz, I H), 8.05 (m, 1 H), 7.76 (t, J = 9.6 Hz, I H), 6.75 (t, J = 5.9 Hz, 1
20 H), 3.53 (t, J = 5.9 Hz, 2 H), 3.45 (q, J = 5.6 Hz, 2 H).
   Step F: 3-{4-[(2-Aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[4-fluoro-3
   (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide
                                                  67

                                                     N      'O
                                        H                N
                                                                NCF3
                                                                F
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step F,
   using 3-{4-[(2-azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[4-fluoro-3
   (trifluoromethyl)phenyl] -1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in 80% yield.
 5 LCMS for C1 3 Ht 1F4 N 6 0 3 (M+H)+: m/z = 375.0.     1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ): 6 8.20
   (dd, J= 6.2, 2.4 Hz, I H), 8.03 (in, 1 H), 7.74 (t, J= 9.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.10 (br s, 0.4 H), 6.68 (t, J
   = 5.5 Hz, 1 H), 3.42 (q, J = 5.8 Hz, 2 H), 2.95 (t, J = 6.5 Hz, 2 H).
   Step G: 4-( 12- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl I amino)-N- [4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
 0 N'-hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
   The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step G, using
   3-14-[(2-aminoethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3 -yl }-4- [4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide as the starting material in 55% yield. LCMS for
 5 C 12H 14 F 4 N7 0 4 S (M+H)+: m/z = 428.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 5 11.60 (s, 1 H),
   9.06 (s, I H), 7.30 (t, J = 10.1 Hz, 1 H), 7.14 (dd, J = 6.1, 2.7 Hz, I H), 7.03 (in, 1 H), 6.71 (t,
   J = 5.3 Hz, 1 H), 6.58 (s, 2 H), 6.23 (t, J = 6.2 Hz, 1 H), 3.36 (q, J = 6.5 Hz, 2 H), 3.08 (in, 2
   H).
20 Example 10
   N-[4-Fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-N'-hydroxy-4-({2
   [(methylsulfonyl)amino]ethyl}amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                  HO
                                   RI 0        H                     F:"
                                        N                 N          CF3
                                        H        N    NH
   The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 17 step E, using
25 N'-hydroxy-4-(12- [(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl } amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide and 3-trifluoromethyl-4-fluoroaniline [Aldrich, product # 217778] as the
   starting materials. LCMS for C13HI5F4N6O4S (M+H)+: m/z = 427.0. IH NMR (400 MHz,
                                                  68

   DMSO-d 6 ): 6 11.60 (s, IH), 9.07 (s, IH), 7.30 (t, J= 10.1 Hz, 1H), 7.18 (t, J= 6.0 Hz, IH),
   7.13 (dd, J= 6.0, 2.7Hz, 1H), 7.03 (in, 1H), 6.27 (t, J= 6.3 Hz, IH), 3.32 (in, 2H). 3.13 (q, J
   = 6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.89 (s, 3H).
 5 Example 11
   4-({3-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]propyl}amino)-N-[4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-N'
   hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                            OH       F
                                       H       H         Y
                               H2Ns -N_        N            N        CF3
                                   0 0           N     N
                                                   0
   Step A: 4-Amino-N'-hydroxy-N-(3-methoxypropyl)-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                       H2 N         H
                                          HN    N               O
 0                                           0
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 1, step C, using
   3-methoxy-1-propanamine as the starting material in 93% yield. LCMS for C7 H 1 4 N5 0 3
   (M+H)+:     n/z = 216.1.
 5 Step B: N'-Hydroxy-4-[(3-methoxypropyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                              ,OH
                                                   O           NH2
                                                       0
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 1, step D, using
   4-amino-N'-hydroxy-N-(3-methoxypropyl)-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide          as the
   starting material in 72% yield. LCMS for C 7 H 1 4 N 5 0 3  (M+H)+: m/z = 216.1. IH NMR
20 (300 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.4 (s, 1 H), 6.21 - 6.13 (in, 3 H), 3.37 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 2 H), 3.28
   3.21 (in, 5 H), 1.82 - 1.74 (in, 2 H).
   Step C: N-Hydroxy-4- [(3-methoxypropyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl chloride
                                               69

                                                       HO
                                               O                    C1
                                                      N,     N
                                                         0
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 1, step E, using
   N'-Hydroxy-4-[(3-methoxypropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide              as the
   starting material in quantitative yield. LCMS for C7 H 1 2 CIN 4 0      3 (M+H)+: m/z = 235.1.
 5
   Step D: N- [4-Fluoro-3 -(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] -N'-hydroxy-4- [ (3 -methoxypropyl)amino]
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                          9 0OH         F
                                                           N            CF3
                                                 N,   N
                                                    0
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 1, step F, using
 0 N-hydroxy-4- [(3-methoxypropyl)amino] - 1,2,5 -oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl chloride and 4
   fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)benzeneamine as the starting materials in 87% yield. LCMS for
   C 1 4 H 1 6 F4 N 5 0 3 (M+H)+: m/z = 378.1. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ): 5 11.5 (s, 1 H),
   9.05 (s, 1 H), 7.30 (dd, J= 10.0, 9.6 Hz, I H), 7.13 - 7.11 (in, I H), 7.05 - 7.00 (in, 1 H), 6.22
   (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 1 H), 3.35 - 3.32 (in, 2 H), 3.25 - 3.19 (in, 5 H), 1.79 - 1.72 (in, 2 H).
 5
   StepE: 4- [4-Fluoro-3 -(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] -3- 14- [(3-methoxypropyl)amino] -1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                H          0         o
                                                             N
                                                  N    N
                                                               --..    CF 3
                                                                    F
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 1, step G, using
20 N-[4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-N'-hydroxy-4-[(3-methoxypropyl)amino]-1,2,5
   oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide as the starting material in quantitative yield. LCMS for
   C 15H   1 4 F4 N5 0  4 (M+H)+: m/z = 404.0.
                                                  70

   Step F: 4-[4-Fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-{4-[(3-hydroxypropyl)amino]-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl -1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                H         0        o
                                   HO,,         N           N
                                                  N,   N
                                                              -.-     CF 3
                                                                  F
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 3, step D, using
 5 4-[4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-14-[(3-methoxypropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3
   yl}-l,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in 97% yield. LCMS for
   C 14 H 1 2 F4 N5 0 4 (M+H)+: m/z = 390.0. IH NMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d6 ): 5 8.20 (dd, J=
   6.4, 2.6 Hz, 1 H), 8.06 - 8.01 (in, 1 H), 7.75 (dd, J= 10.0, 9.4 Hz, I H), 6.53 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 1
   H), 4.59 (t, J= 5.0 Hz, I H), 3.51 - 3.42 (in, 2 H), 3.32 - 3.26 (in, 2 H), 1.73 - 1.68 (in, 2 H).
 0
   Step G: 3-{4- [(3-Azidopropyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }-4- [4-fluoro-3
   (trifluoromethyl)phenyl] -1, 2,4-oxadiazol-5 (4H)-one
                                                H       0
                                       N3AN                 N
                                                  N   N
                                                             --..     CF 3
                                                                  F
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 3, step E, using
15 4-[4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-f 4-[(3-hydroxypropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3
   yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in quantitative yield. LCMS for
   C 14 H 1 0 F4 N8 0 3 Na (M+Na)+: m/z = 437.0.
   Step H: 3-{ 4-[(3-Aminopropyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }-4-[4-fluoro-3
20 (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide
                                  HI             HoI-
                                      HIH                           =
                                      HH                    ON
                                                            N
                                                  HN      N
                                                  NsON       /
                                                              --.      CF 3
                                                                   F
                                                  71

    The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 3, step F, using
    3-{4-[(3-azidopropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl} -4-[4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
    1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in 81% yield. LCMS for C 1 4 H 1 3 F4 N 6 0    3
    (M+H)+: m/z = 389.1. IH NMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.18 (dd, J= 6.4, 2.3 Hz, I H),
 5  8.06 - 8.01 (m, 1 H), 7.72 (dd, J= 9.7, 9.4 Hz, 1 H), 7.34 (br s, 2 H), 6.71 (br s, I H), 2.78
    2.73 (m, 2 H), 1.85 - 1.75 (m, 2 H).
    Step I: 4-({3-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]propyl}amino)-N-[4-fluoro-3
    (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-N'-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
 0
    The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 15, step G,
    using 3-{4-[I(3-aminopropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[4-fluoro-3
    (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide as the starting material in
    60% yield. LCMS for C13HI6F4N704S (M+H)+: m/z = 442.0. IH NMR (300 MHz, DMSO
 5  d): 8 11.6 (s, 1 H), 9.08 (s, 1 H), 7.31 (dd, J= 10.0, 9.4 Hz, I H), 7.13 (dd, J= 6.4, 2.9 Hz, I
    H), 7.05 - 6.99 (m, 1 H), 6.58 (t, J= 6.0 Hz, I H), 6.52 (s, 2 H), 6.17 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 1 H), 3.28
    - 3.21 (m, 2 H), 2.94 - 2.87 (m, 2 H), 1.79 - 1.72 (m, 2 H).
    Example 12
 '0 N-[4-Fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-N'-hydroxy-4-({3
    [(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl}amino)-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                            OH         F
                                        H
                                        N
                                        N
                                                 H                  |
                                                           N
                                                           H           CF 33
                                   0 0             N,   N
                                                      0
    The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 16 using 3-{4
    [(3 -aminopropyl)amino] -1;2,5 -oxadiazol-3 -yl 1-4-[4-fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4
25  oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide as the starting material in 70% yield. LCMS for
    C 14 H 1 7 F 4N 60 4 S (M+H)+: m/z = 441.1. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ): 5 11.6 (s, 1 H).
    9.07 (s, 1 H), 7.30 (dd, J = 10.0, 9.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.13 (dd, J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.05 - 7.02 (m,
    2 H), 6.19 (t, J= 5.8 Hz, I H), 3.27 - 3.21 (m, 2 H), 2.99 - 2.94 (m, 2 H), 2.87 (s, 3 H), 1.76
    1.72 (m, 2 H).
30
                                                  72

   Example 13
   4-({2-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]ethyl}amino)-N'-hydroxy-N-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                           ,O                  'O H
                                    H2N-S%'                 N
                                                 N-\NH
                                            H         N         NF
                                                        N.. ,NI\  ~      F
                                                                       4
 5 Step A: N'-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-N-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,5
   oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                     OH
                                                H NX
                                                  O      NH
                                               N     N                F
   N-Hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl           chloride (1.3 g,
   5.0 mmol) [made according to Example 1, steps A through E] was stirred in water (10 mL)
 0 and warmed to 60 'C for 5 minutes. 3-(trifluoromethyl)aniline [Aldrich, product # A41801]
   (880 mg, 5.5 mmol) was added in one portion and the reaction stirred for 15 minutes. While
   remaining at 60 'C, a solution of sodium bicarbonate (630 mg, 7.5 mmol) in water (10 mL)
   was added dropwise over 5 minutes. The reaction was stirred at 60 'C for an additional 50
   minutes, and then allowed to cool to room temperature. Ethyl acetate (20 mL) and brine (30
 5 mL) were added to the flask and the organic layer was collected. The aqueous layer was
   extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 20 mL) and the combined organics were dried over sodium
   sulfate. The solvent was removed in vacuo to give the desired product as an orange solid (1.4
   g, 80%). LCMS calculated for C13H15F3N503 (M+H)*: m/z = 346.1. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   CD 30D): 6 7.36 (t, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 7.23 (d, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.09 (s, 1H), 7.02 (d, J = 8.2
20 Hz, 1H), 3.60 (t, J = 5.2 Hz, 2H), 3.46 (t, J = 5.2 Hz, 2H), 3.38 (s, 3H).
   Step B: 3-{4- [(2-Methoxyethyl) amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }-4- [3 -(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                    N -O      O
                                     O-\     H           N
                                               NN                   F
                                                               -    F
                                                                    F
                                                 73

   N'-Hydroxy-4- [(2-methoxyethyl)amino] -N- [3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] - 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide (1.4 g, 3.80 mmol) and 1,1'-carbonyldiimidazole (1.16 g, 7.16 mmol) were
   dissolved in ethyl acetate (20 mL). The reaction mixture was heated at 70 'C for 40 minutes.
   Additional 1,1'-carbonyldiimidazole (0.26 g, 1.16 mmol) was added. After stirring at 70 'C
 5 for another 50 minutes, the reaction was allowed to cool to room temperature. Ethyl acetate
   (20 mL) was added and the crude reaction was washed with I N HCl in water (2 x 20 mL).
   Brine was added to aid in the separation of the first wash. The organic layer was dried over
   sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel
   with an eluent of ethyl acetate in hexanes gave the desired product (1.3 g, 90%). LCMS
 0 calculated for C 14H              (M+H)*: m/z = 372.0.   1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6): 5 8.07
                         1 3F3N504
   (s, 1H), 7.92 (in, 2H), 7.79 (t, J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 6.42 (t, J= 6.0 Hz, 1H), 3.47 (t, J= 5.8 Hz,
   2H), 3.38 (q, J = 5.0 Hz, 2H), 3.24 (s, 3H).
   Step C: 3-{4- [(2-Hydroxyethyl)amino] -1, 2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl} -4- [3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
 5  1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                     N      O
                                       HO~k.             N
                                                 N    N              F
                                                       0     -    F
   In a round bottom flask under nitrogen atmosphere, 3-{4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3 -yl} -4- [3 -(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] -1,2,4-oxadiazol-5 (4H)-one (1.3 g, 3.6 mmol)
   was stirred in dichloromethane (11 ImL). The temperature was brought to -78 'C and a
20 solution of 1.0 M boron tribromide in dichloromethane (7.9 mL. 7.9 mmol) was added
   dropwise over 15 minutes. The reaction was warmed to room temperature over 45 minutes
   and continued to stir at room temperature for an additional 45 minutes. The reaction was
   cooled to 0 'C and a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate in water (25 mL) was added
   dropwise over 15 minutes. After warming to room temperature, ethyl acetate (10 mL) and
25 water (10 mL) were added to the flask. The organic layer was collected and the aqueous
   layer was extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 20 mL). After drying the combined organic layers
   over sodium sulfate, the solvent was removed in vacuo to give the desired product (1.0 g,
   81%). LCMS calculated for C 1 3 H1 1F3 N 50 4 (M+H)*: m/z = 358.0. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
   DMSO-d6): 6 8.08 (s, IH), 7.93 (t, J = 8.2 Hz, 2H), 7.79 (t, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 6.35 (t, J = 5.7
30 Hz, IH), 4.86 (br s, 1H), 3.55 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 2H), 3.28 (in, 2H).
                                                   74

   Step D: 2-[(4-{5-Oxo-4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-4,5-dihydro-1.2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl)amino] ethyl methanesulfonate
                                    0
                                      k\,O            N   rO
                                                N
                                                          N
                                                                      F
                                                   N0 ,             F
                                                            -
                                                                  F
   To a solution of 3-{4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[3
 5 (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (1.0 g, 2.9 mmol) in ethyl acetate (8.5
   mL) was added methanesulfonyl chloride (0.29 mL, 3.7 mmol) in one portion. The reaction
   was stirred for 5 minutes and triethylamine (0.52 mL, 3.7 mmol) was added, also in one
   portion. After stirring for an additional 10 minutes, the reaction was quenched with the
   addition of water (5 mL). The product was extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 5 mL), dried
 0 over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give the desired product (1.2 g, 99%).
   LCMS calculated for C 14 H13 F3 N 50 6 S (M+H)*: n/z = 436.0. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO
   d6): 8 8.10 (s, 1H), 7.92 (in, 2H), 7.80 (t, J= 8.2 Hz, IH), 6.77 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 1H), 4.36 (t, J=
   5.5 Hz, 2H), 3.58 (in, 2H), 3.17 (s, 3H).
 5 Step E: 3-{4-[(2-Azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                   -N,,N+             N       O
                                                  N     N            F
                                                    0-N            F
                                                                     F
   2-[(4-{5-Oxo-4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl)amino]ethyl methanesulfonate (1.2 g, 2.9 mmol) was dissolved in NN
20 dimethylformamide (2.7 mL). After sodium azide (280 mg, 4.3 mmol) was added in one
   portion, the temperature was brought to 65 'C and the reaction stirred for 6 hours. After
   cooling back to room temperature, water (10 mL) was added to quench the reaction. The
   product was extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 10 mL) and the combined organic layers were
   dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed in vacuo to give the desired product
25 (1.05 g, 96%). LCMS calculated for CJ 3 HioF 3 N 60 3 (M-N2+H)+: m/z = 355.0. 'H NMR (400
   MHz, DMSO-d6): 6 8.09 (s, IH), 7.93 (in, 2H), 7.79 (t, J = 8.2 Hz, 1H), 6.75 (t, J = 5.8 Hz,
   1H), 3.52 (t. J = 5.7 Hz, 2H), 3.44 (q, J = 5.5 Hz, 2H).
                                                  75

   Step F: 3-{4-[(2-Aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide
                                   H2N~~..-            N
                                     HI        N    N             F
                                               N , ,N      D      FF
                                                             -  F
   To a solution of 3-{4-[(2-azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[3
 5 (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (1.05 g, 2.8 mmol) in methanol (12 mL)
   was added sodium iodide (2.5 g, 17 mmol). After stirring for 10 minutes, a solution of
   chlorotrimethylsilane (2.1 mL, 17 mmol) in methanol (1.41 mL) was added dropwise over 15
   minutes. The reaction continued to stir for 40 minutes and then a solution of sodium
   thiosulfate (2.7 g, 17 mmol) in water (12.5 mL) was added in one portion. A beige solid
 0 precipitated upon addition of the sodium thiosulfate solution and it was collected by vacuum
   filtration. The solid was rinsed with water (2 x 10 mL) and was dried under vacuum
   overnight to give the desired product. A solid had also precipitated from the filtrate and it
   was collected by vacuum filtration. After washing with water (3 x 10 mL) in the funnel, the
   product was dried overnight under vacuum. The solid was slurry washed with ethyl acetate
 5 (3.8 mL) for 1 hour and recollected by filtration. After rinsing with ethyl acetate (2 x 2 mL)
   and drying overnight, additional product was obtained. In total, 760 mg of desired product
   (57%) was obtained as the hydroiodide salt. LCMS calculated for C13 H12 F3 N6 0     3 (M+H)*:
   m/z =357.1. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.10 (s, 1H), 7.95 (m, 2H), 7.81 (t, J= 8.1
   Hz, 1H), 7.68 (br s, 2H), 6.74 (t, J = 6.7 Hz, 1H), 3.49 (m, 2H), 3.03 (t, J = 6.7 Hz, 2H).
20
   Step G: 4-( 12- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl I amino)-N'-hydroxy-N- [3
   (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
   To a solution of chlorosulfonyl isocyanate (9.2 [tL, 0.11 mmol) in dichloromethane (0.24
25 mL), at 0 'C and under a nitrogen atmosphere, was added tert-butyl alcohol (10 1tL, 0.11
   mmol) in a dropwise fashion. The solution was allowed to stir at room temperature for 1
   hour to obtain a solution of tert-butyl [chlorosulfonyl]carbamate.
   In a separate flask, 3-{4-[(2-aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[3
   (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide (26 mg, 0.053 mmol) was
30 suspended in dichloromethane (0.5 mL). A nitrogen atmosphere was established and the
   temperature brought to 0 'C. The tert-butyl [chlorosulfonyl]carbamate solution (prepared as
                                                 76

   above) was added over 5 minutes to the stirred suspension of the amine salt. After 10
   minutes, triethylamine (37 pL, 0.27 mmol) was added dropwise. The reaction mixture was
   stirred at room temperature for 1.5 hours. After concentrating in vacuo, the residue was
   treated with trifluoroacetic acid (0.5 mL, 6 mmol). This was stirred for 1 hour and the
 5 mixture was again concentrated to dryness in vacuo. The dried solids were suspended in
   methanol (0.5 mL) and a 2.0 N NaOH in water (0.53 mL, 1.1 mmol) was added in one
   portion. The reaction was heated to 45 'C and stirred for 30 minutes. After neutralization
   with acetic acid (60 gL, 1.1 mmol), the product was purified by preparative LCMS to give
   the desired product (8.5 mg, 39%). LCMS calculated for C 12Hi 5 F3N 70 4 S (M+H)*: m/z =
 0 410.0.    1H NMR (400 MHz, CD 30D): 6 7.36 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, IH), 7.23 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, IH),
   7.10 (s, IH), 7.03 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 3.48 (m, 2H), 3.29 (m, 2H).
   Example 14
   N'-Hydroxy-4-({2-[(methylsulfonyl)amino]ethyl}amino)-N-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
 5 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                           "OH
                                   O9,0         H            H
                                   -Ss N        N          N         CF 3
                                        H         N    N    H
            The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 17, step E,
   using N'-hydroxy-4-({2- [(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl } amino)- 1,25 -oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide and 3-trifluoromethylaniline [Aldrich, product # A41801] as the starting
20 materials. LCMS for C13HI6 F3N604S (M+H)+: m/z = 409.1. IH NMR (500 MHz, DMSO
   d 6 ): 8 11.63 (s, 1H), 9.08 (s, 1H), 7.39 (t, J= 7.6 Hz, IH), 7.21 (m, 2H), 7.10 (s, 1H), 6.99 (d,
   J= 8.1 Hz, 1H), 6.28 (t, J= 5.4 Hz, IH), 3.36 (q, J= 5.8 Hz, 2H), 3.17 (q, J= 5.8 Hz, 2H),
   2.91 (s, 3H).
25 Example 15
   4-({3-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]propyl}amino)-N'-hydroxy-N-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                              ,OH
                                        H          H
                                H2 N.   N_         N     N              CF3
                                    0 0              N, N
                                                       0
                                                   77

   Step A: 3 -(4-Amino-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)-4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol
   5(4H)-one
                                         H2N           N
                                             N~ N
                                                0N     bCF
                                                                  3
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 5, step A, using
 5 4-amino-N'-hydroxy-N-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide          [see
   US Pat. App. Pub. No. 2006/0258719] as the starting material in 97% yield. LCMS for
   C IIH 7 F3 N 5 0    3  (M+H)+: m/z = 314.1.
   Step B: 2,2,2-Trifluoro-N-(4-{5-oxo-4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4
 0 oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)acetamide
                                               H        0       O
                                       F3C    N           N
                                           o    NN        /
                                                   0
                                                              bC    F3
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 5, step B, using
   3-(4-amino- 1,2,5 -oxadiazol-3 -yl)-4- [3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] -1,2,4-oxadiazol-5 (4H)-one
   as the starting material in 90% yield. LCMS for C 1 3 H 6 F6 N 5 0  4 (M+H)+: m/z = 410.0. IH
 5 NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 7.91 - 7.88 (in, 2 H), 7.76 - 7.69 (in, 2 H).
   Step C: 3-{4-[(3-Methoxypropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[3
   (trifluoromethyl)phenyl] -1, 2,4-oxadiazol-5 (4H)-one
                                                 H    H     0 >=
                                                             N
                                                   ON     N
                                                   N0 N      /~
                                                             b       CF3
20 The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 3, step C, using
   2,2,2-trifluoro-N-(4-{5-oxo-4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl}
   1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)acetamide as the starting material in 49% yield. LCMS for
   C 1 5 H 1 5 F 3 N5 0  4 (M+H)+: m/z = 386.1. IH NMR (300 MHz, CDCl 3 ): 67.83 (d, J= 8.1
                                                   78

   Hz, 1 H), 7.72 - 7.67 (m, 2 H), 7.59 (d, J = 7.5 Hz, 1 H), 6.08 - 6.04 (m, 1 H), 3.57 (t, J= 5.6
   Hz, 2 H), 3.54 - 3.47 (m, 2 H), 3.40 (s, 3 H), 2.01 - 1.93 (m, 2 H).
   SteplD: 3-{4-[(3-Hydroxypropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[3
 5 (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                           -0
                                               H            O    O
                                   HO      --  N            N
                                                  N, N
                                                    0
                                                            N-   NCF3
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 3, step D, using
   3-{4-[(3 -methoxypropyl)amino] -1, 2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl 1-4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4
   oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in 69% yield. LCMS for C 1 4 H 1 3 F3 N 5 0 4
 0 (M+H)+: m/z = 372.1. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 8 8.07 (s, 1 H), 7.95 - 7.90 (m, 2
   H), 7.79 (dd, J= 7.9, 7.9 Hz, 1 H), 6.55 (t, J= 5.6 Hz, I H), 4.59 (t, J= 5.1 Hz, I H), 3.47
   3.42 (m, 2 H), 3.30 - 3.25 (in, 2 H), 1.72 - 1.65 (m, 2 H).
   Step E: 3-{4-[(3-Azidopropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
 5 1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                               H         N-0o
                                                         N
                                      N3N            ,N/
                                                    N N            CF 3
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 3, step E, using
   3-{4-[(3-hydroxypropyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl} -4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4
   oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in 92% yield. LCMS for C 1 4 HI IF 3 N 8 0 3 Na
20 (M+Na)+: m/z = 419.0.
   Step F: 3-{4- [(3-Aminopropyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yI -4- [3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide
                                  HI                       -0
                                     H         H
                                  H2 N    xA   N             N
                                                   9   N
                                                               -    CF 3
                                                 79

    The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 3, step F, using
    3-{4-[(3-azidopropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl} -4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4
    oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in 92% yield. LCMS for C 1 4 H 1 4 F 3 N 6 0   3
    (M+H)+: m/z = 371.1. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.09 (s, 1 H), 7.96 - 7.92 (in, 2
 5  H), 7.80 (dd, J= 8.0, 7.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.53 (br s, 2 H), 6.70 - 6.65 (in, 1 H), 4.10 (br s, I H), 3.32
    - 3.31 (in, 2 H), 2.81 - 2.78 (in, 2 H), 1.85 - 1.82 (in, 2 H).
    Step G: 4-(13-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]propyl amino)-N'-hydroxy-N-[3
    (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
 0
    A solution of 3-{4-[(3-aminopropyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[3
    (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide (1.5 g, 3.0 mmol) and
    sulfamide (1.7 g, 18 mmol) in pyridine (60 mL) was heated in a microwave at 130 0 C for 10
    min. The reaction mixture was concentrated to give the crude intermediate N-13-[(4-{5-oxo
 5  4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3
    yl)aminojpropyl}sulfamide. A solution of the crude intermediate in methanol (90 mL) was
    treated with 2 N NaOH (12 mL, 24 mmol) and stirred at 25 'C for 30 min. The reaction
    mixture was treated with 6 M HCl until the solution was acidic and extracted with ethyl
    acetate (250 mL). The organic layer was washed with water (100 mL) and brine (100 mL),
 .0 dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate, filtered, and concentrated to give a crude residue. This
    material was purified by preparative LCMS to give the desired product (1.1 g, 82%) as a
                                                                               1H
    gummy solid. LCMS for C1 3 H 1 7 F3 N 7 0 4 S (M+H)+: m/z = 424.0.            NMR (400 MHz,
    DMSO-d):      8 11.6 (s, 1 H), 9.12 (s, 1 H), 7.37 (dd, J= 8.0, 8.0 Hz, I H), 7.21 - 7.18 (m, I
    H), 7.07 (s, 1 H), 6.95 (d, J = 10.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.52 (br s, 3 H), 6.17 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, I H), 3.28
25  3.22 (in, 2 H), 2.93 - 2.89 (m, 2 H), 1.77 - 1.73 (m, 2 H).
    Example 16
    N'-Hydroxy-4-({3-[(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl}amino)-N-[3
    (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                              OH
                                       H          H
                                    SN                        N        CF3
                                                              H3
                                                      0
30
                                                    80

   A solution of 3-{4-[(3-aminopropyl)amino] -1,2,5 -oxadiazol-3-yl 1-4-[3
   (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(41H)-one hydroiodide (from Example 15, Step F;
   25 mg, 50 gmol) in dichloromethane (1 mL) was treated with triethylamine (17 gL, 0.12
   mmol) and methanesulfonyl chloride (6 gL, 70 jimol) and stirred at 25 'C for 2 h. The
 5 reaction mixture was concentrated to give the intermediate, N-{3-[(4-{5-oxo-4-[3
   (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-4,5-dihydro- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl }-1;2,5-oxadiazol-3
   yl)aminolpropyl}methanesulfonamide, as a crude residue which was used without further
   purification. A solution of the crude intermediate in methanol (1 mL) was treated with 2 N
   NaOH (0.25 mL, 0.5 mmol) and stirred at 25 'C for 30 min. The reaction mixture was
 0 treated with acetic acid (50 p-L, 0.9 mmol), filtered and purified by preparative LCMS to give
   the desired product (13 mg, 65%) as a solid. LCMS for C 1 4 H 1 8 F3 N 6 0 4 S (M+H)+: m/z =
   423.1.   1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 8 11.6 (s, I H), 9.11 (s, 1 H), 7.37 (dd, J = 8.0, 8.0
   Hz, 1 H), 7.20 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.07 - 7.01 (in, 2 H), 6.96 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.20 (t, J=
   5.9 Hz, 1 H), 3.27 - 3.22 (in, 2 H), 2.99 - 2.94 (in, 2 H), 2.87 (s, 3 H), 1.78 - 1.71 (in. 2 H).
 5
   Example 17
   N-(4-Fluoro-3-methylphenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({2-          [(methylsulfonyl)amino]ethyl}amino)
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                      O                   OH
                                       ---           N
                                                   N,       N
                                                                  F
20 Step A: tert-Butyl { 2- [(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl Icarbamate
                                                 O     -/O
                                                          HN 0
                                                NH
   N-(2-Aminoethyl)(tert-butoxy)carboxamide (17.5 mL, 0.11 mol) [Alfa #L19947] was stirred
   in dichloromethane (320 mL) and triethylamine (33 mL, 0.24 mol) was added. A solution of
   methanesulfonyl chloride (8.5 mL, 0.11 mol) in dichloromethane (10 mL) was added. The
25 resulting mixture was stirred for 1 hour and water (30 mL) was added. The product was
   extracted with dichloromethane (3 x 30 mL), dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in
                                                  81

   vacuo to give the desired product (21 g, 81%). LCMS calculated for C3HinN202S (M
   Boc+H)*: m/z = 139.1.
   Step B: N-(2-Aminoethyl)methanesulfonamide dihydrochloride
                                                      /    2HCI
                                               HN-     zzo
                                                    0
 5                                      H2 N
   tert-Butyl {2-[(methylsulfonyl)amino]ethyl}carbamate (21 g, 88 mmol) was stirred in a
   solution of 4 N hydrogen chloride in 1,4-dioxane (97 mL, 388 mmol) for 30 minutes.
   Trituration with ethyl acetate and hexanes followed by diethyl ether and hexanes gave the
   desired compound as a gum (19 g, 100%). LCMS calculated for C3HIlN 20 2S (M+H)*: m/z =
 0 139.0.
   Step C: 4-Amino-N'-hydroxy-N- {2- [(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl    -1,2,5 -oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide
                                               OH
                                                            0
                                       H2 N        NH
 5                                         N 0N
   4-Amino-N-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl chloride (9.7 g, 60 mmol) was stirred
   in ethanol (460 mL) and N-(2-aminoethyl)methanesulfonamide dihydrochloride (19 g, 109
   mmol) was added slowly in portions and the temperature rose to 25 'C. After cooling back to
   0 'C, triethylamine (53 mL, 380 mmol) was added dropwise over 15 minutes and the reaction
20 was stirred for an additional 15 minutes. The solution was washed with water (300 mL) and
   brine (300 mL). The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo
   to give the desired product (16 g, 100%). LCMS calculated for C6H1 3N 60 4 S (M+H)*: m/z =
   265.1. t1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 10.16 (s, 1H), 9.07 (m, 1H), 7.18 (im, 1H), 6.37 (s,
   2H), 3.36 (m, 2H), 3.15 (m, 2H), 2.87 (s, 3H).
25
   Step D: N-Hydroxy-4-({ 2- [(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl Iamino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide
                                                82

                                              o             OH
                                         9",,0             P
                                          .--       H     N
                                                              NH2
                                                     N, ,N
   4-Amino-N'-hydroxy-N- { 2-[(methylsulfonyl)amino]ethyl }-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide (0.47 g, 1.8 mmol) was stirred in 1,2-ethanediol (38 mL). Potassium
   hydroxide (600 g, II mmol) was added in one portion. The reaction was heated at 130 'C for
 5 4 hours and allowed to cool to room temperature. I N HCI solution (60 mL) was added and
   the product was extracted with ethyl acetate (4 x 40 mL). The combined organics were dried
   over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give the desired product (0.45 g, 96%).
   LCMS calculated for C 6HI2 N 6 0 4 S (M+H)*: m/z = 265.1. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d): 8
   10.49 (s, 1H), 7.18 (in, 1H), 6.20 (in, 3H), 3.36 (in, 2H), 3.15 (in, 2H), 2.87 (s, 3H).
 0
   Step E: N-(4-Fluoro-3 -methylphenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({ 2- [(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl}
   amino)-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
   N'-Hydroxy-4-({ 2- [(methylsulfonyl)amino]ethyl } amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
 5 carboximidamide (35 mg, 0.13 mmol) was stirred in 1,4-dioxane (2 mL) and 6 N hydrogen
   chloride solution (4 mL) was added. The solution was cooled to 0 'C and a solution of
   sodium nitrite (11 mg, 0.16 mmol) in water (3 mL) was slowly added. The mixture was
   stirred for 1 hour at 0 'C and evaporated. Dry 1,4-dioxane (2 mL) was added and the mixture
   evaporated two more times. A solution of 4-fluoro-3-methylaniline [Aldrich, product #
20 559415] (25 mg, 0.20 mmol) in ethanol (2 mL) was added and the mixture was stirred for 1
   hour. Purification by preparative LCMS (pH 2) gave the desired compound (17 mg, 27%).
   LCMS calculated for C, 3 Hi8 FN 6 0 4 S (M+H)*: m/z = 373.1. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ):
   8 11.25 (s, 1H), 8.61 (s, 1H), 7.18 (in, IH), 6.91 (in, 1H), 6.72 (in, IH), 6.58 (in, 1H), 6.24 (s,
   1H), 3.32 (in, 2H), 3.11 (in, 2H), 2.89 (s, 3H), 2.05 (s, 3H).
25
   Example 18
   4-({2-[(Aniinosulfonyl)amino]ethyllamino)-N-(3-cyano-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                 83

                                          oOH
                                                           NH
                                         HH2 --
                                                   N   -N   /        CN
                                                                  F
   Step A: N-(3-Cyano-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5
   oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                       OH
                                                     N
                                   MeON.ij               NH
                                                 N   -N       -    CN
                                                                F
 5 The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step A,
   using N-hydroxy-4- [(2-methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5 -oxadiazole-3 -carboximidoyl chloride
   [made according to Example 1, steps A through E] and 5-amino-2-fluorobenzonitrile
   [Aldrich, product # 639877] as the starting materials in 100% yield. LCMS for C13H14FN603
   (M+H)+: m/z = 321.0.
 0
   Step B: 2-Fluoro-5-[3-{4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-5-oxo-1,2,4
   oxadiazol-4(5H)-yl]benzonitrile
                                   MeO         H         N
                                                 N   -N       -    CN
                                                                F
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step B,
15 using N-(3-cyano-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazole
   3-carboximidamide as the starting material in 91% yield. LCMS for C 14H 12FN6 0        4 (M+H)+:
   m/z = 347.0.   1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.25 (dd, J= 5.7, 2.6 Hz, 1 H), 8.06 (in, 1
   H), 7.77 (t, J= 9.2 Hz, 1 H), 6.41 (t, J = 5.7 Hz, 1 H), 3.48 (in, 2 H), 3.40 (q, J = 5.4 Hz, 2
   H), 3.25 (s, 3 H).
20
   Step C: 2-Fluoro-5-[3-{4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-5-oxo-1,2,4
   oxadiazol-4(5H)-yl]benzonitrile
                                                  84

                                                    NH O
                                    H      4j          N
                                                  O
                                                              F
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step C,
   using 2-fluoro-5-[3-{4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-5-oxo-1,2,4
   oxadiazol-4(5H)-yl]benzonitrile as the starting material in quantitative yield. LCMS for
 5 C 13 H 1oFN 6 0 4 (M+H)+: m/z = 333.0.
   Step D: 2-({4-[4-(3-Cyano-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl }amino)ethyl methanesulfonate
                                        MSN-O           N
                                    M80'~~\...          N
                                                Ns-N
                                                 N10 ,      -     ON
                                                                  C
                                                               F
 0 The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step D,
   using 2-fluoro-5-[3-{4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-5-oxo-1,2,4
   oxadiazol-4(5H)-yl]benzonitrile as the starting material in 88% yield. LCMS for
   C 14 H 12FN 60 6 S (M+H)+: m/z = 411.0.
 5 Step E: 5- [3- {4-[(2-Azidoethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl 4-5-oxo- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-4(5H)
   yl] -2-fluorobenzonitrile
                                                    N     O
                                     N3           N    N
                                               N ,N              CN
                                                 0'
                                                              F
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step E,
   using 2-(14-[4-(3-cyano-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1 ,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5
20 oxadiazol-3-yl}amino)ethyl methanesulfonate as the starting material in 95% yield.
   Step F: 5-[3-{4-[(2-Aminoethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }-5-oxo- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-4(5H)
   yl]-2-fluorobenzonitrile hydroiodide
                                                85

                                     H2 N       H        N
                                     HI                   O_
                                        HIN,          N             CN
                                                                 F
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 13, step F,
   using 5-[3-{4-[(2-azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-5-oxo-1,2,4-oxadiazol-4(5H)-yl]
   2-fluorobenzonitrile as the starting material in 57% yield. LCMS for C 13H] IFN70 3 (M+H)+:
 5 m/z = 332.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6): 6 8.29 (dd, J= 5.8, 2.7 Hz, 1 H), 8.09 (in, 1
   H), 7.83 (br s, 3 H), 7.79 (t, J = 9.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.77 (t, J = 5.9 Hz, 1 H), 3.50 (q, J = 6.4 Hz, 2
   H), 3.04 (m, 2 H).
   Step G: 4-({ 2- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl } amino)-N-(3 -cyano-4-fluorophenyl)-N'
 0 hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
   In a microwave vial, 5-[3-{4-[(2-aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-5-oxo-1,2,4
   oxadiazol-4(5H)-yl]-2-fluorobenzonitrile hydroiodide (20.0 mg, 0.044 mmol) and sulfamide
   (25 mg, 0.26 mmol) were suspended in pyridine (0.5 mL). The reaction was heated to 120 'C
 5 for 10 minutes in a microwave reactor. The solvent was removed and the residue dissolved
   in methanol (0.17 mL). A solution of 2.0 N NaOH in water (0.22 mL, 0.44 mmol) was added
   in one portion. The reaction was stirred at room temperature overnight. After neutralization
   with acetic acid (50 tL), the product was purified using preparative LCMS to give the title
   compound (4.9 mg, 29%). LCMS for C12 H14 FNsO4S (M+H)+: m/z = 385.0.                1H  NMR (400
20 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 11.65 (s, 1H), 9.08 (s, IH), 7.34 (t, J= 9.1 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (dd, J= 5.4,
   2.8 Hz, 1H), 7.13 (in, 1H), 6.70 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 1H), 6.59 (s, 2H), 6.20 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 1H), 3.34
   (in, 2H), 3.09 (m, 2H).
   Example 19
25 N-(3-Cyano-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({2- [(methylsulfonyl)amino]ethyl)amino)
   1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                  H         OH
                                                         JHOH         F
                                        N      N           N          CN
                                        H        N,   N    H
                                                  86

   The title compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 17, step E, using
   N'-hydroxy-4-({ 2- [(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl} amino)-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide and 3-cyano-4-fluoroaniline [Aldrich, product # 639877] as the starting
   materials. LCMS for C13 H14 FN7NaO 4 S (M+Na)+: m/z = 406.0. IH NMR (400 MHz,
 5 DMSO-d 6 ): 6 11.65 (s, 1H), 9.08 (s, 1H), 7.35 (in, 1H), 7.18 (in, 3H), 6.56 (in, IH), 6.23 (m,
   1H), 6.24 (s, 2H), 3.32 (in, 2H), 3.14 (in, 2H), 2.89 (s, 3H).
   Example 20
   4-({2-[(Aninosulfonyl )amino]ethyl}amino)-N-[(4-bromo-2-furyl)methyl]-N'-hydroxy
 0 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                   H2N-S NN
                                            HH N    NH        NH  0
                                                     N, ,N
                                                       0
   Step A: tert-Butyl [(4-bromo-2-furyl)methyl]carbamate
                                                 0
                                                    H     1
                                                              Br
 5 4-Bromo-2-furaldehyde [Aldrich, product #666599] (10.0 g, 57.1 mmol) was dissolved in
   ethanol (50 mL) and water (50 mL). N-Hydroxyamine hydrochloride (7.15 g, 103 mmol) and
   sodium acetate (8.44 g, 103 mmol) were added sequentially and the reaction mixture was
   brought to reflux at 100 'C for 1 hour. The solution was partially concentrated and the
   precipitate was collected and washed with cold water (2 x 10 mL). The filtrate was extracted
20 with ethyl acetate (3 x 25 mL) and the combined organic layers were washed with brine (50
   mL). After drying over sodium sulfate, the solution was concentrated in vacuo. The residue
   was combined with the precipitate and dissolved in acetic acid (70 mL). After placing in an
   ice-bath, zinc (14.7 g, 225 mmol) was added portion-wise over 25 minutes. The reaction
   warmed to room temperature over 1.5 hours and was filtered through Celite. The solvent was
25 removed in vacuo.
   The residue was stirred in tetrahydrofuran (72 mL). A solution of 2.0 N NaOH in water (179
   mL, 358 mmol) was added dropwise over 45 minutes. After 5 minutes, di-tert
                                                 87

    butyldicarbonate (16.9 g, 77.4 mmol) was added dropwise. The reaction was stirred for 2
    hours and the tetrahydrofuran was removed in vacuo. Ethyl acetate (100 mL) was added and
    the suspension was filtered. The organic layer was collected and the product extracted with
    ethyl acetate (2 x 50 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with brine (100 mL)
 5  and water (100 mL), dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give the desired
    product (15.3 g, 79%). LCMS calculated for CioH 14BrNNaO 3 (M+Na)*: m/z = 298.0. 'H
    NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 5 7.79 (s, 1 H), 7.37 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 1 H), 6.33 (s, I H), 4.06 (d,
    J= 6.1 Hz, 2 H), 1.36 (s, 9 H).
 0  Step B: 1-(4-Bromo-2-furyl)methanamine trifluoroacetate
                                                 H2N        0
                                         F3C    OH
                                                             Br
    Under a nitrogen atmosphere, a solution of tert-butyl [(4-bromo-2-furyl)methyl]carbamate
    (15.3 g, 55.4 mmol) in dichloromethane (86 mL) at 0 'C was treated with trifluoroacetic acid
 5  (43 mL) over 15 minutes. The reaction mixture warmed to room temperature over 30
    minutes. The solvent was removed in vacuo and chased with toluene (3 x 50 mL). The
    product was lyophilized for 18 hours to give the desired product as a brown solid (13.0 g,
    81%). LCMS calculated for C5H4BrO (M-NH2)*: m/z         =  158.9, 160.9. 'H NMR (400 MHz,
    DMSO-d6): 8 8.34 (br s, 3 H), 8.01 (s, 1 H), 6.70 (s, 1 H), 4.08 (s, 1 H).
 .O
    Step C: N-[(4-Bromo-2-furyl)methyl]-N'-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5
    oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                    OH
                                       x          N
                                    SNH                      0
                                              N, -,N               Br
    N-Hydroxy-4-(2-methoxyethylamino)-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carbimidoyl          chloride [prepared
25  according to the procedure of Example 1, steps A through E] (4.5 g, 20.3 mmol) was stirred
    in ethanol (20 mL) at room temperature. To this, a solution of 1-(4-bromo-2
    furyl)methanamine trifluoroacetate (6.5 g, 22.4 mmol) in ethanol (24 mL) was added and the
    mixture was stirred for 15 minutes. Triethylamine (6.3 mL, 44.8 mmol) was added dropwise
    over 10 minutes and the reaction was stirred for an additional 15 minutes. The solvent was
                                                88

   removed in vacuo and after adding water (50 mL), the product was extracted with ethyl
   acetate (3 x 50 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with brine (50 mL), dried
   over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the desired product (7.5 g, 100%). LCMS
   calculated for CnHi 5 BrN5O4 (M+H)*: m/z = 359.9, 361.9.
 5
   Step D: 4- [(4-Bromo-2-furyl)methyl] -3-{4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                      N    O
                                         O              N     0
                                               N1,N                Br
   N- [(4-Bromo-2-furyl)methyl] -N'-hydroxy-4- [ (2-methoxyethyl)amino]      -1,2,5 -oxadiazole-3
 0 carboximidamide (7.3 g, 20.4 mmol) and 1,I'-carbonyldiimidazole (5.0 g, 30.5 mmol) were
   dissolved in ethyl acetate (72 mL). The reaction mixture was heated at 65 'C for 15 minutes.
   Ethyl acetate (70 mL) was added and the crude reaction was washed with 0.1 N hydrogen
   chloride in water (2 x 70 mL). The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate and
   concentrated in vacuo. Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel with an eluent of
 5 ethyl acetate in hexanes gave the desired product (4.1 g, 90%). LCMS calculated for
   C 12H13BrN5 O5 (M+H)*: m/z = 386.0, 388.0. 'H NMR (400 MHz, CD 3 0D): 8 7.88 (s, I H),
   6.67 (s, I H), 6.39 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 1 H), 5.07 (s, 2 H), 3.50 (m, 2 H), 3.41 (q, J= 5.7 Hz., 2 H),
   3.25 (s, 3 H).
20 Step E: 4-[(4-Bromo-2-furyl)methyl]-3-{4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                       HNO H
                                   H                    N     0
                                               N, -N               Br
   In a round bottom flask under nitrogen atmosphere, 4-[(4-bromo-2-furyl)methyl]-3-{4-[(2
   methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl} -1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (8.2 g, 21 mmol) was
25 stirred in dichloromethane (68 mL). The temperature was brought to -78 'C and a solution of
   1.0 M boron tribromide in dichloromethane (43 mL, 43 mmol) was added dropwise over 45
   minutes. The reaction stirred at -78 'C for 45 minutes and continued to stir at 0 'C for an
   additional 30 minutes. While remaining at 0 'C, a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate
                                                 89

   in water (120 mL) was added dropwise over 25 minutes. After warming to room
   temperature, the organic layer was collected and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl
   acetate (2 x 50 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with brine (100 mL), dried
   over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo to give the desired product (7.7 g, 97%) along
 5 with a small amount of 3-{4- [(2-bromoethyl)amino] -1,2,5 -oxadiazol-3 -yl }-4- [(4-bromo-2
   furyl)methyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one. LCMS calculated for CnHuIBrN5O5 (M+H)*: m/z
   =  371.7, 374.0.  1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 7.89 (s, 1 H), 6.68 (s, 1 H), 6.31 (t, J = 5.8
   Hz, 1 H), 5.08 (s, 2 H), 4.85 (br s, 1 H), 3.56 (in, 2 H), 3.30 (q, J = 5.6 Hz, 2 H).
 0 Step F: 2-[(4-{4-[(4-Bromo-2-furyl)methyl]-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl)amino]ethyl methanesulfonate
                                     O
                                     /N,0       H       ,-\\
                                                SN               0
                                                 N    -N               Br
   To a solution of 4- [(4-bromo-2-furyl)methyl] -3-4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5 -oxadiazol
   3-yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (7.7 g, 21 mmol, containing also some of the corresponding
 5 bromo-compound) in ethyl acetate (100 mL) was added methanesulfonyl chloride (0.96 mL,
   12 mmol) in one portion. The reaction was stirred for 5 minutes and triethylamine (1.6 mL,
   11 mmol) was added, also in one portion. After stirring for 30 minutes, additional
   methanesulfonyl chloride (0.4 mL, 5 mmol) was added, followed 5 minutes later by
   triethylamine (0.58 mL, 4.2 mmol). After 15 minutes, the reaction was quenched with the
20 addition of water (100 mL). The product was extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 50 mL) and
   the combined organic layers washed with brine (100 mL). After drying over sodium sulfate,
   the solvent was removed in vacuo to give the desired product (9.3 g, 100%). LCMS
   calculated for C12HI3BrN5O7S (M+H)*: m/z = 449.8, 451.8. 'H NMR (300 MHz, DMSO-d6):
   6 7.88 (s, 1 H), 6.73 (t, J = 6.2 Hz, I H), 6.68 (s, 1 H), 5.08 (s, 2 H), 4.37 (in, 2 H), 3.59 (q, J
25 =  5.8 Hz, 2 H), 3.16 (s, 3 H).
   Step G: 3-{4-[(2-Azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[(4-bromo-2-furyl)methyl]
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                  90

                                   -N.N
                                                       N      O
                                         N NN             N\
                                                          N      o
                                                 N    -N               Br
   2- [(4-{ 4- [(4-Bromo-2-furyl)methyl] -5-oxo-4,5-dihydro- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl }-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl)amino] ethyl methanesulfonate (9.1 g, 20 mmol, containing also some of the
   corresponding bromo-compound) was dissolved in dimethylformamide (90 mL). Sodium
 5 azide (1.97 g, 30.3 mmol) was added in one portion and after 5 minutes, the temperature was
   brought to 65 'C. The reaction stirred for 2 hours and was allowed to cool back to room
   temperature. Water (200 mL) was added to quench the reaction. The product was extracted
   with ethyl acetate (3 x 100 mL) and the combined organic layers were washed with brine (2 x
   150 mL) and water (150 mL). After drying over sodium sulfate, the solvent was removed in
 0 vacuo to give the desired product (7.7 g, 96%). LCMS calculated for CliH9BrN8NaO4
   (M+Na)*: m/z = 418.7, 421.0. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 8 7.88 (s, 1 H), 6.71 (t, J=
   5.7 Hz, I H), 6.68 (s, 1 H), 5.08 (s, 2 H), 3.54 (t, J = 5.7 Hz, 2 H), 3.47 (q, J = 5.7 Hz, 2 H).
   Step H: 3-{4-[(2-Aminoethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }-4- [(4-bromo-2-furyl)methyl]
 5 1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide
                                                        N      0
                                     HIN
                                                N    -N               Br
   To a solution of 3-{4-[(2-azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[(4-bromo-2
   furyl)methyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (7.7 g, 19 mmol) in methanol (80 mL) was added
   sodium iodide (17.4 g, 116 mmol). After stirring for 10 minutes, a solution of
20 chlorotrimethylsilane (14.8 mL, 116 mmol) was added dropwise over 5 minutes. The
   reaction continued to stir for 1 hour, at which time it was slowly added to a solution of
   sodium thiosulfate (23.0 g, 145 mmol) in water (800 mL) at 0 'C, resulting in a precipitate.
   The flask was rinsed with methanol (10 mL) and the precipitate was collected through
   vacuum filtration. The solid was rinsed with cold water (2 x 25 mL) and was dried under
25 vacuum to give the desired product (5.8 g, 60%) as the hydroiodide salt. LCMS calculated
   for C jH12BrN6O4 (M+H)*: m/z = 370.9, 372.8. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ): 8 7.86 (s, 1
   H), 7.36 (br s, 3 H), 6.68 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 1 H), 6.65 (s, 1 H), 5.07 (s, 2 H), 3.45 (q, J = 5.8 Hz,
   2 H), 2.98 (t, J = 5.8 Hz, 2 H).
                                                  91

   Step I: 4-(12- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl }amino)-N- [(4-bromo-2-furyl)methyl] -N'
   hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                           SOH
                                             0           NS
                                 H2 N-SN
                                              NN H
                                                    Ns    N             Br
                                                       0
 5 In a microwave vial, 3-{4-[(2-aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[(4-bromo-2
   furyl)methyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide (30 mg, 0.060 mmol) and sulfamide
   (29 mg, 0.30 mmol) were suspended in pyridine (1 mL). The reaction mixture was flushed
   with nitrogen and heated at 130 'C for 3 minutes in a microwave reactor. The solvent was
   removed and the crude intermediate was suspended in methanol (1 mL). A 2.0 N solution of
 0 NaOH in water (0.30 mL, 0.60 mmol) was added in one portion and the reaction was heated
   to 45 'C for 30 minutes. After neutralization with acetic acid (68 pL, 1.2 mmol), the product
   was purified by preparative LCMS to give the desired product (10.4 mg, 41%). LCMS
   calculated for C1oHi5BrN705S (M+H)*: m/z = 423.9, 426.0. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ):
   8 10.87 (s, I H), 7.75 (s, 1 H), 6.83 (t, J = 7.3 Hz, 1 H), 6.68 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.56 (s, 2
 5 H), 6.30 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.23 (s, I H), 4.56 (d, J = 7.0 Hz, 2 H), 3.32 (q, J = 6.3 Hz, 2 H),
   3.07 (q, J = 6.3 Hz, 2 H).
   Example 21
   4-({2-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]ethyl}amino)-N-[(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl]-N'-hydroxy
20 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                              0 0             OH
                                              -Ss           N
                                    H2 N'N                  NN
                                             H        NH       NH    0
                                                       N, IN
                                                          0
   Step A: 4-Chloro-2-furaldehyde
                                                 H        0
                                                          1
                                                           CI
25 To a stirred suspension of aluminum trichloride (29.8 g, 0.223 mol) in dichloromethane (200
                                                   92

   mL) under nitrogen atmosphere was added 2-furancarboxaldehyde (8.44 mL, 0.102 mol) over
   15 minutes. After stirring for 30 minutes, chlorine was bubbled into the suspension using a
   pipette over a time period of 50 minutes. The flask was sealed and left to stir at room
   temperature for 90 hours. The reaction mixture was slowly added to a mixture of ice (500
 5 mL) in a solution of 1.0 N hydrogen chloride in water (300 mL). The mixture was left to
   warm to room temperature over the next hour. The layers were separated and the organic
   layer collected. Additional product was extracted with dichloromethane (2 x 200 mL). The
   combined organic layers were washed with water (250 mL) and dried over sodium sulfate.
   The solvent was removed in vacuo to give a crude mixture containing the desired product
 0 (14.0 g, 100%, 60% purity).    1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ): 6 9.56 (s, 1 H), 8.36 (s, 1 H),
   7.71 (s, 1 H).
   Step B: tert-Butyl [(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl]carbamate
                                                  0
                                               0    N      0
                                                    H
                                                            CI
 5 4-Chloro-2-furaldehyde (14.0 g, 60% purity, 64 mmol) was dissolved in ethanol (50 mL) and
   water (50 mL). N-Hydroxyamine hydrochloride (12.6 g, 182 mmol) and sodium acetate
   (14.9 g, 182 mmol) were added sequentially and the reaction mixture was brought to reflux at
   100 'C for 1 hour. The solution was partially concentrated then water (25 mL) and ethyl
   acetate (50 mL) were added. The organic layer was collected and the aqueous was extracted
20 with ethyl acetate (2 x 25 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with brine (50
   mL) and water (50 mL). After drying over sodium sulfate, the solution was concentrated in
   vacuo. The intermediate was suspended in acetic acid (115 mL. The solution was cooled in
   an ice-bath and zinc (33.1 g, 506 mmol) was added portion-wise over 20 minutes. The
   reaction warmed to room temperature over 2 hours and was filtered through Celite. The
25 solvent was removed in vacuo.
   The residue was stirred in tetrahydrofuran (100 mL). A solution of 2.0 M NaOH in water
   (152 mL, 304 mmol) was added dropwise over 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was placed
   in an ice-bath and after 5 minutes, di-tert-butyldicarbonate (24.3 g, 111 mmol) was added
30 dropwise over 15 minutes. The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature over the
   next 2 hours and the tetrahydrofuran was then removed in vacuo. Ethyl acetate (100 mL) was
                                                 93

   added and the suspension was filtered. The organic layer was collected and the aqueous layer
   extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 100 mL). The combined organic layers were washed with a
   1:1 mixture of water/brine (100 mL), dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated in vacuo.
   Purification by flash chromatography on silica gel with an eluent of ethyl acetate in hexanes
 5 gave the desired product (3.05 g, 22%). LCMS calculated for CIoH14ClNNaO3 (M+Na)*: m/z
   = 253.9. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ): 8 7.81 (s, I H), 7.37 (t, J = 5.3 Hz, 1 H), 6.32 (s, 1
   H), 4.05 (d, J= 6.0 Hz, 2 H), 1.36 (s, 9 H).
   Step C: 1-(4-Chloro-2-furyl)methanamine trifluoroacetate
                                                    H2N       0
                                           F3C     OH
 0                                                              CI
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 20, step B,
   using tert-butyl [(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl]carbamate as the starting material in quantitative
   yield. LCMS calculated for C5 H4 ClO (M-NH 2)*: m/z = 115.0.          1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO
   d6): 5 8.29 (br s, 3 H), 8.04 (s, I H), 6.69 (s, 1 H), 4.07 (s, 2 H).
 5
   Step D: N-[(4-Chloro-2-furyl)methyl]-N'-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5
   oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                      OH
                                          O            N
                                           0   H         NH     0
                                                N,    N               CI
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 20, step C,
20 using N-hydroxy-4-(2-methoxyethylamino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3 -carbimidoyl chloride and 1
   (4-chloro-2-furyl)methanamine trifluoroacetate as the starting material in quantitative yield.
   LCMS calculated for CI HI5 CIN 5 0 4 (M+H)*: m/z = 316.0.
   Step E: 4- [(4-Chloro-2-furyl)methyl] -3-{4- [(2-methoxyethyl)amino] - 1,2,5 -oxadiazol-3 -yl}
25 1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                     NIO~
                                       O    N            N      0
                                                N 0,N                 CI
                                                   94

   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 20, step D,
   using N-[(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl]-N'-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazole
   3-carboximidamide as the starting material in 51% yield. LCMS calculated for
   C 12 H 13C1N5 0 5 (M+H)*: m/z = 342.0.
 5
   Step F: 4-[(4-Chloro-2-furyl)methyl]-3-{4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                   H0-\\4_             N    0
                                               N, -N              CI
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 20, step E,
 0 using 4-[(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl] -3-{ 4- [(2-methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in quantitative yield. LCMS calculated for
   C 1 H1oCIN 5NaO5 (M+Na)*: m/z = 349.9.
   Step G: 2-[(4-{4-[(4-Chloro-2-furyl)methyl]-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,5
 5 oxadiazol-3-yl)amino]ethyl methanesulfonate
                                    / 0,.j             N      0
                                      O0                 N
                                                N   -N             C0
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 20, step F,
   using 4-[(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl]-3-{4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-1;2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in 69% yield. LCMS calculated for
20 C12H13CN507S (M+H)*: m/z = 405.8.
   Step H: 3-{4-[(2-Azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl]
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                 -NN+
                                                    N'     O
                                           NNJH
                                           N             N    0
                                                 N   N             CI
                                                 95

   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 20, step G,
   using 2-(4-{ 4-(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl] -5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl }-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl)amino]ethyl methanesulfonate as the starting material in quantitative yield.
   LCMS calculated for Ci tH9ClNsNaO4 (M+Na)*: m/z = 374.9.
 5
   Step I: 3-{4- [(2-Aminoethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl } -4- [(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl]
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide
                                                     N1     O
                                    H2N        H          N    o
                                    HI
                                                N    -N             CI
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 20, step H,
 0 using 3-{4-[(2-azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl]-1.2,4
   oxadiazol-5(4H)-one as the starting material in 57% yield. LCMS calculated for
   C IH 12CIN 6 0 4 (M+H)*: m/z = 326.9.
   Step J: 4-( {2- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl } amino)-N-[(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl]-N'
 5 hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                          OH
                                  H2N'S                   N
                                                            NH
                                                  N     ,N             CI
                                                      0
   The desired compound was prepared according to the procedure of Example 20, step I, using
   3-{4- [(2-aminoethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }-4- [(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl] -1,2,4
   oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide as the starting material in 53% yield. LCMS calculated for
20 C1 oH15ClN 70 5 S (M+H)*: rn/z = 379.9. 'H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-dci): 6 10.88 (s, 1 H),
   7.77 (s, 1 H), 6.83 (t, J = 6.8 Hz, 1 H), 6.68 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 1 H), 6.56 (s, 2 H), 6.30 (t, J= 5.9
   Hz, 1 H), 6.22 (s, 1 H), 4.55 (d, 2 H), 3.32 (q, J = 6.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.06 (q, J = 6.3 Hz, 2 H).
   Example 22
25 Alternate Preparation of the Intermediate 3-(4-(2-aminoethylamino)-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3
   yl)-4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one         hydroiodide
                                                 96

                                                H        N       O0
                                     H2 N       N          N
                                        HI        N'N      /
                                                                    Br
                                                                F
   Step A: 4-Amino-N'-hydroxy-N-(2-methoxyethyl)-1 ,25-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                       OH
                                         H2N            --    O
                                             N, -.N
                                               0
   4-Amino-N-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl chloride (can be prepared according
 5 to Example 1, steps A-B, 200.0 g, 1.23 mol) was mixed with ethyl acetate (1.2 L). At 0-5 OC
   2-methoxyethylamine [Aldrich, product # 143693] (119.0 mL, 1.35 mol) was added in one
   portion while stirring. The reaction temperature rose to 41 'C. The reaction was cooled to 0
   5 'C. Triethylamine (258 mL, 1.84 mol) was added. After stirring 5 min, LCMS indicated
   reaction completion. The reaction solution was washed with water (500 mL) and brine (500
 0 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, and concentrated to give the desired product (294 g, 119%)
   as a crude dark oil. LCMS for C6H] 2N 5 0 3 (M+H)*: m/z = 202.3.      1H NMR (400 MHz,
   DMSO-d 6 ): 8 10.65 (s, 1 H), 6.27 (s, 2 H), 6.10 (t, J = 6.5 Hz, 1 H), 3.50 (m, 2 H), 3.35 (d, J
   = 5.8 Hz, 2 H), 3.08 (s, 3 H).
 5 Step B: N'-Hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                               OH
                                           O        N    N    N H2
                                                     N, -N
                                                       0
   4-Amino-N'-hydroxy-N-(2-methoxyethyl)-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide            (248.0 g,
   1.23 mol) was mixed with water (1 L). Potassium hydroxide (210 g, 3.7 mol) was added. The
   reaction was refluxed at 100 'C overnight (15 hours). TLC with 50% ethyl acetate
20 (containing 1% ammonium hydroxide) in hexane indicated reaction completed (product Rf           =
   0.6, starting material Rf = 0.5). LCMS also indicated reaction completion. The reaction was
   cooled to room temperature and extracted with ethyl acetate (3 x 1 L). The combined ethyl
   acetate solution was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the desired product
   (201 g, 81%) as a crude off-white solid. LCMS for C6 H 12N50        (M+H)*: m/z = 202.3   1H
                                                                     3
                                                  97

   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 8 10.54 (s, 1 H), 6.22 (s, 2 H), 6.15 (t, J= 5.8 Hz, 1 H), 3.45 (t,
   J= 5.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.35 (in, 2 H), 3.22 (s, 3 H).
   Step C: N-Hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl chloride
                                                             OH
                                               O   N   ,    CI
 5                                                  N 0N
   At room temperature N'-hydroxy-4- [(2-methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazole-3
   carboximidamide (50.0 g, 0.226 mol) was dissolved in 6.0 M hydrochloric acid aqueous
   solution (250 mL, 1.5 mol). Sodium chloride (39.5 g, 0.676 mol) was added followed by
   water (250 mL) and ethyl acetate (250 mL). At 3-5 'C a previously prepared aqueous solution
 0 (100 mL) of sodium nitrite (15.0 g, 0.217 mol) was added slowly over 1 hr. The reaction was
   stirred at 3 - 8 'C for 2 hours and then room temperature over the weekend. LCMS indicated
   reaction completed. The reaction solution was extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 200 mL). The
   combined ethyl acetate solution was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the
   desired product (49.9 g, 126%) as a crude white solid. LCMS for C 6HioC1N 4 0 3 (M+H)*: m/z
 5 = 221.0.   1H  NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 8 13.43 (s, 1 H), 5.85 (t, J= 5.6 Hz, 1 H), 3.50 (t,
   J= 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 3.37(dd, J= 10.8, 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 3.25 (s, 3 H).
   Step D: N-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5
   oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                       9"OHa      F
                                              H
                                                N,-N
                                      0             %\ H          B
20                                               ,0N
   N-Hydroxy-4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidoyl        chloride (46.0 g,
   0.208 mol) was mixed with water (300 mL). The mixture was heated to 60 'C. 3-Bromo-4
   fluoroaniline [Oakwood products, product # 013091] (43.6 g, 0.229 mol) was added and
   stirred for 10 min. A warm sodium bicarbonate (26.3 g, 0.313 mol) solution (300 mL water)
25 was added over 15 min. The reaction was stirred at 60 'C for 20 min. LCMS indicated
   reaction completion. The reaction solution was cooled to room temperature and extracted
   with ethyl acetate (2 x 300 mL). The combined ethyl acetate solution was dried over sodium
   sulfate and concentrated to give the desired product (76.7 g, 98%) as a crude brown solid.
                                                 98

   LCMS for C12Hi4BrFN503 (M+H)*: m/z = 374.0, 376.0. 1 H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6): 5
   11.55 (s, 1 H), 8.85 (s, 1 H), 7.16 (t, J= 8.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.08 (dd, J= 6.1, 2.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.75 (in,
   1 H), 6.14 (t, J= 5.8 Hz, 1 H), 3.48 (t, J= 5.2 Hz, 2 H), 3.35 (dd, J= 10.8, 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 3.22
   (s, 3 H).
 5
   Step E: 4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3-{4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1 ,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                            -o
                                                H         |
                                       ON                     N
                                            0,0
                                                  N s,N/
                                                         o           Br
                                                                  F
   A mixture of N-(3 -bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4- [(2-methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5
 0 oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide (76.5 g, 0.204 mol), 1,1'-carbonyldiimidazole (49.7 g, 0.307
   mol), and ethyl acetate (720 mL) was heated to 60 'C and stirred for 20 min. LCMS indicated
   reaction completed. The reaction was cooled to room temperature, washed with 1 N HCI (2 x
   750 mL), dried over sodium sulfate, and concentrated to give the desired product (80.4 g,
   98%) as a crude brown solid. LCMS for C13 H12 BrFN50            (M+H)*: m/z = 400.0, 402.0.  1H
                                                                4
 5 NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6): 8 7.94 (t, J = 8.2 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 (dd, J= 9.1, 2.3 Hz, 1 H), 7.42
   (m, 1 H), 6.42 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, I H), 3.46 (t, J = 5.4 Hz, 2 H), 3.36 (t., J= 5.8 Hz, 2 H), 3.26 (s,
   3 H).
   Step F: 4-(3 -Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3 -{ 4- [(2-hydroxyethyl)amino] -1, 2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}
20 1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                H           0     o
                                                N             N
                                                  NHO,
                                                             O-      Br
                                                                 F
   4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3-{4-[(2-methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,4
   oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (78.4 g, 0.196 mol) was dissolved in dichloromethane (600 mL). At -67
   'C boron tribromide (37 mL, 0.392 mol) was added over 15 min. The reaction was warmed
25 up to -10 'C in 30 min. LCMS indicated reaction completed. The reaction was stirred at room
   temperature for 1 hour. At 0 - 5 'C the reaction was slowly quenched with saturated sodium
                                                   99

   bicarbonate solution (1.5 L) over 30 min. The reaction temperature rose to 25 'C. The
   reaction was extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 500 mL, first extraction organic layer is on the
   bottom and second extraction organic lager is on the top). The combined organic layers were
   dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the desired product (75 g, 99%) as a crude
 5 brown solid. LCMS for C12 H1oBrFN5 O 4 (M+H)*: m/z = 386.0, 388.0. IH NMR (400 MHz,
   DMSO-d6): 8 8.08 (dd, J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.70 (in, 1 H), 7.68 (t, J = 8.7 Hz, I H), 6.33 (t,
   J= 5.6 Hz, I H), 4.85 (t, J= 5.0 Hz, 1 H), 3.56 (dd, J= 10.6, 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 3.29 (dd, J= 11.5,
   5.9 Hz, 2 H).
 0 Step G: 2-({4-[4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-yl I amino)ethyl methanesulfonate
                                               H         0        o
                                   MsO         N           N
                                                 NON       /
                                                             - -.   Br
                                                                F
   4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3-(4-(2-hydroxyethylamino)-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)-1.2,4
   oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (72.2 g, 0.188 mol) was mixed with ethyl acetate (600 mL).
 5 Methanesulfonyl chloride (19.2 mL, 0.248 mol) was added followed by triethylamine (34.9
   mL, 0.250 mol). The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 5 min. When LCMS
   indicated completion of reaction (M+H = 442). 500 mL of water was added into reaction. The
   reaction was extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 500 mL). The combined ethyl acetate solution
   was washed with brine (500 mL), dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give 85.1 g
20 crude brown solid. 1H NMR verified the structure. Crude yield was 97 %. LCMS for
   C13HIIBrFN5O6SNa (M+Na)*: m/z = 485.9, 487.9. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ): 8 8.08
   (dd, J= 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 (in, 1 H), 7.58 (t, J= 8.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.75 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 1 H),
   4.36 (t, J= 5.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.58 (dd, J= 11.2, 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 3.18 (s, 3 H).
25 Step H: 3-{4-[(2-Azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)
   1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                100

                                               H          0        O
                                      N3
                                                 N    -N    /
                                                    0
                                                               ..     Br
                                                                  F
   2-(4-(4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-1,2,5-oxadiazol
   3-ylamino)ethyl methanesulfonate (50.0 g, 0.108 mol) was dissolved in N, N
   dimethylformamide (83 mL). Sodium azide (10.5 g, 0.162 mol) was added. The reaction was
 5 stirred at 65 'C for 5-6 hours. LCMS indicated reaction completed (M+Na = 435). The
   reaction was quenched with water (250 mL) and extracted with ethyl acetate (2 x 250 mL).
   The combined ethyl acetate solution was washed with water (250 mL, layer separation was
   slow, 100 mL of brine was added to improve the separation), dried over sodium sulfate, and
   concentrated to give 49.7 g crude brown solid. Crude yield is 112 %. LCMS for
 0 CI2HsBrFN80 3Na (M+Na)*: m/z = 433.0, 435.0. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 6 8.08 (dd,
   J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, I H), 7.72 (in, 1 H), 7.58 (t, J = 8.7 Hz, I H), 6.75 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, I H), 3.54
   (t, J = 5.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.45 (dd, J = 11.1, 5.2 Hz, 2 H).
   Step 1: 3-(4-(2-aminoethylamino)-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)-4-(3 -bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4
 5 oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydroiodide
                                                H         N' 0      O
                                     H2 N       N             N
                                        HI        N,    N
                                                                       Br
                                                                   F
   3-(4-(2-azidoethylamino)-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)-4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol
   5(4H)-one (80.0 g, 0.194 mol) was mixed with methanol (800 mL). Sodium iodide (175.0 g,
   1.17 mol) was added. The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 10 min.
20 Chlorotrimethylsilane (148 mL, 1.17 mol) was dissolved in methanol (100 mL) and added to
   the reaction over 30 min. The reaction temperature rose 42 'C. The reaction was stirred at
   room temperature for 30 min. LCMS indicated reaction completed (M+H = 386). The
   reaction was quenched with sodium thiosulfate (190.0 g, 1.20 mol) in water (900 mL). A
   large amount of solid precipitated. The product was collected by filtration (filtration speed
25 was slow), rinsed with water (200 mL), and dried on vacuum overnight. The filter cake was
   slurried in ethyl acetate (500 mL) for 30 min. The product was filtered (filtration speed is
                                                 101

   slow) and dried under vacuum over weekend to give 95 g of an off-white solid. LCMS for
   C 12HujBrFN 6 O 3 (M+H)*: m/z = 384.9, 386.9. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ): 8 8.12 (m, 4
   H), 7.76 (m, 1 H), 7.58 (t, J= 8.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.78 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 1 H), 3.51 (dd, J= 11.8, 6.1
   Hz, 2 H), 3.02 (m, 2 H).
 5
   Example 23
   Alternate preparation of 4-({2-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]ethyl}amino)-N-(3-bromo-4
   fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
                                                              OOH       F
                                                   H
                                  H2N'S N         N            N        Br
                                          H          N,   N    H
                                                        0
 0 Step A: 4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3-(4-(2-hydroxyethylamino)-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)
    1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                            -0
                                                 H        |        O
                                                    NN
                                      HO         N           N
                                                   N -N      /
                                                                 -   Br
                                                                 F
   To a solution of 4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3-(4-(2-methoxyethylamino)-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3
   yl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (can be prepared according to Example 1, steps A-G; 1232 g,
 5 3.08 mol) in dichloromethane (12 L) stirring in a 22 L flask at 0 'C was added boron
   tribromide (354 mL, 3.67 mL) dropwise at a rate so that the temperature did not exceed 10
   'C. After stirring on ice for 1 h, a solution of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate (2 L)
   was carefully added at a rate so that the temperature did not exceed 20 'C (addition time 10
   min). The resulting mixture was transferred to a 50 L separatory funnel, diluted with water
20 (10 L), and the pH of the aqueous layer adjusted from 1 to 8 using solid sodium bicarbonate.
   The layers were separated, and the organic layer was washed with water (10 L), and the
   solvents removed in vacuo to afford a tan solid (24 mol processed in multiple runs, 9.54 kg,
   quant. yield). The material was slurried in 4 volumes of 7:1 heptane:ethyl acetate (4 x 22 L
   flasks), filtered, and dried to furnish the title compound as a tan solid (8679 g, 94%). The
25 product was a mixture of the hydroxy- and the corresponding bromo-species.
   Step B: 2-(4-(4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl)-1,2,5
   oxadiazol-3-ylamino)ethyl methanesulfonate
                                                   102

                                                H          0      O
                                    MsO                      N
                                                                 - . Br
                                                                F
   To a solution of 4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-3-{4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol
   3-yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one (1.5 kg, 3.9 mol, containing also some of the corresponding
   bromo-compound) in ethyl acetate (12 L) was added methanesulfonyl chloride (185 mL, 2.4
 5 mol) dropwise over 1 h at room temperature. Triethylamine (325 mL, 2.3 mol) was added
   dropwise over 45 min, during which time the reaction temperature increased to 35 'C. After
   2 h, the reaction mixture was washed with water (5 L), brine (1 L), dried over sodium sulfate,
   combined with 3 more reactions of the same size, and the solvents removed in vacuo to
   afford the desired product (7600 g, quantitative yield, containing also some of the
 0 corresponding bromo-compound, Caution: irritating dust!) as a tan solid. LCMS for
   C13HiuBrFN506SNa (M+Na)*: m/z = 485.9, 487.9. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 5 8.08
   (dd, J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 (in, 1 H), 7.58 (t, J = 8.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.75 (t, J = 5.9 Hz, 1 H),
   4.36 (t, J = 5.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.58 (dd, J = 11.2, 5.6 Hz, 2 H), 3.18 (s, 3 H).
 5 Step C: 3-(4-(2-azidoethylamino)-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)-4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-1.2,4
   oxadiazol-5(4H)-one
                                                H        N        O
                                      N3        N            N
                                                  N    N
                                                                     Br
                                                                F
   To a solution of 2-({4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]
   1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }amino)ethyl methanesulfonate (2.13 kg, 4.6 mol, containing also some
20 of the corresponding bromo-compound) in dimethylformamide (4 L) stirring in a 22 L flask
   was added sodium azide (380 g, 5.84 mol). The reaction was heated at 50 'C for 6 h, poured
   into ice/water (8 L), and extracted with 1:1 ethyl acetate:heptane (20 L). The organic layer
   was washed with water (5 L) and brine (5 L), and the solvents removed in vacuo to afford the
   desired product (1464 g, 77%) as a tan solid. LCMS for Cn2HsBrFNsO3Na (M+Na)*: mn/z =
25 433.0, 435.0. 'H NMR (DMSO-d6 , 400 MHz): 5 8.08(dd, J = 6.2, 2.5Hz, 1H), 7.72(m, 1H),
                                                 103

   7.58(t, J=8.7Hz, 1H), 6.75(t, J=5.7Hz, 1H), 3.54(t, J= 5.3Hz, 2H), 3.45(dd, J= 11.1,
   5.2Hz, 2H).
   Step D: 3-{4-[(2-Aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)
 5  1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-onehydrochloride
                                               H          O    o
                                     H2N       N          N
                                          HCI      0
                                                             -    Br
                                                              F
   Step D, Part 1: tert-Butyl 2-(4-(4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4
   oxadiazol-3-yl)-l,2,5-oxadiazol-3-ylamino)ethylcarbamate
                                                   N
                                                     N~ N
                                                                       Br
 0                                                               F
   Sodium iodide (1080 g, 7.2 mol) was added to 3-{4-[(2-azidoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3
   yl } -4-(3 -bromo-4-fluorophenyl)- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-5 (4H)-one (500 g, 1.22 mol) in methanol (6
   L). The mixture was allowed to stir for 30 min during which time a mild exotherm was
   observed. Chlorotrimethylsilane (930 mL, 7.33 mol) was added as a solution in methanol (1
 5 L) dropwise at a rate so that the temperature did not exceed 35 'C, and the reaction was
   allowed to stir for 3.5 h at ambient temperature. The reaction was neutralized with 33 wt%
   solution of sodium thiosulfate pentahydrate in water (-1.5 L), diluted with water (4 L), and
   the pH adjusted to 9 carefully with solid potassium carbonate (250 g - added in small
   portions: watch foaming). Di-tert-butyl dicarbonate (318 g, 1.45 mol) was added and the
20 reaction was allowed to stir at room temperature. Additional potassium carbonate (200 g)
   was added in 50 g portions over 4 h to ensure that the pH was still at or above 9. After
   stirring at room temperature overnight, the solid was filtered, triturated with water (2 L), and
   then MTBE (1.5 L). A total of 11 runs were performed (5.5 kg, 13.38 mol). The combined
   solids were triturated with 1:1 THF:dichloromethane (24 L, 4 runs in a 20 L rotary evaporator
25 flask, 50 'C, 1 h), filtered, and washed with dichloromethane (3 L each run) to afford an off
   white solid. The crude material was dissolved at 55 'C tetrahydrofuran (5 mL/g), treated
                                                104

    with decolorizing carbon (2 wt%) and silica gel (2 wt%), and filtered hot through celite to
    afford the product as an off-white solid (5122 g). The combined MTBE, THF, and
    dichloromethane filtrates were concentrated in vacuo and chromatographed (2 kg silica gel,
    heptane with a 0-100% ethyl acetate gradient, 30 L) to afford more product (262 g). The
 5  combined solids of tert-butyl 2-(4-(4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4
    oxadiazol-3-yl)-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-ylamino)ethylcarbamate were dried to a constant weight in
    a convection oven (5385 g, 83%).
    Step D, Part 2: 3-14-[(2-Aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-(3-bromo-4
 0  fluorophenyl)- 1,2,4-oxadiazol-5 (4H)-one hydrochloride
    Method A:
    In a 22 L flask was charged hydrogen chloride (4 N solution in 1,4-dioxane, 4 L, 16 mol).
    tert-Butyl [2-(14-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]
    1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}amino)ethyl]carbamate (2315 g, 4.77 mol) was added as a solid in
 5  portions over 10 min. The slurry was stirred at room temperature and gradually became a
    thick paste that could not be stirred. After sitting overnight at room temperature, the paste
    was slurried in ethyl acetate (10 L), filtered, re-slurried in ethyl acetate (5 L), filtered, and
    dried to a constant weight to afford the desired product as a white solid (combined with other
    runs, 5 kg starting material charged, 4113 g, 95%). LCMS for C 12HnlBrFN6 O 3 (M+H)*: m/z
 '0 =  384.9, 386.9. IH NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 8 8.12 (in, 4 H), 7.76 (in, 1 H), 7.58 (t, J=
    8.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.78 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 1 H), 3.51 (dd, J= 11.8, 6.1 Hz, 2 H), 3.02 (in, 2 H).
    Method B:
    tert-Butyl [2-({4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]
    1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl }amino)ethyl]carbamate (5000g) was added to a mixture of isopropanol
25  (20 L) and 4 N HCl in 1,4-dioxane (10 L) at room temperature. The batch was heated to 40
    45 C and held for 1 h. Ethyl acetate was added to the batch at 40-45 'C and held for 2.5 h.
    Upon reaction completion, as indicated by HPLC, heptane (10 L) was added to the batch.
    The batch was cooled to 25 "C. The product was isolated by filtration and the wet cake was
    washed with ethyl acetate (3 x 5.0 L). The product was dried in a vacuum, oven at 20 'C to
30  give 4344 g (93.4% yield) of the title compound. LC-MS, 1H and '3 C NMR, and HPLC data
    of this lot were identical to those of the product prepared by Method A.
                                                  105

   Step E: tert-Butyl ({[2-({4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol
   3-yl]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl } amino)ethyl] amino Isulfonyl)carbamate
                                         P        H             0
                                BocHN's N -       N          N
                                          H
                                                    N    N
                                                                 -   Br
                                                                  F
   A 5 L round bottom flask was charged with chlorosulfonyl isocyanate [Aldrich, product #
 5  142662] (149 mL, 1.72 mol) and dichloromethane (1.5 L) and cooled using an ice bath to 2
   'C. tert-Butanol (162 mL, 1.73 mol) in dichloromethane (200 mL) was added dropwise at a
   rate so that the temperature did not exceed 10 'C. The resulting solution was stirred at room
   temperature for 30-60 min to provide tert-butyl [chlorosulfonyl]carbamate.
 0 A 22 L flask was charged with 3-{4- [(2-aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-(3
   bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one hydrochloride (661 g, 1.57 mol) and 8.5 L
   dichloromethane. After cooling to -15 'C with an ice/salt bath, the solution of tert-butyl
   [chlorosulfonyl]carbamate (prepared as above) was added at a rate so that the temperature did
   not exceed -10 'C (addition time 7 min). After stirring for 10 min, triethylanine (1085 mL,
 5 7.78 mol) was added at a rate so that the temperature did not exceed -5 'C (addition time 10
   min). The cold bath was removed, the reaction was allowed to warm to 10 'C, split into two
   portions, and neutralized with 10% conc HCl (4.5 L each portion). Each portion was
   transferred to a 50 L separatory funnel and diluted with ethyl acetate to completely dissolve
   the white solid (~25 L). The layers were separated, and the organic layer was washed with
20 water (5 L), brine (5 L), and the solvents removed in vacuo to afford an off-white solid. The
   solid was triturated with MTBE (2 x 1.5 L) and dried to a constant weight to afford a white
   solid. A total of 4113 g starting material was processed in this manner (5409 g, 98%). IH
   NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d 6 ): 8 10.90 (s, I H), 8.08 (dd, J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 (in, 1 H),
   7.59 (t, J= 8.6 Hz, 1 H), 6.58 (t, J= 5.7 Hz, 1 H), 3.38 (dd, J= 12.7, 6.2 Hz, 2 H), 3.10 (dd, J
25 = 12.1, 5.9 Hz, 2 H), 1.41 (s, 9 H).
   Step F: N-[2-({4-[4-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]
   1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}amino)ethyl]sulfamide
                                                106

                                       O%/        H               O
                                  H2N' SN -       N          N
                                           H
                                                    N,   N
                                                                  -Br
                                                                 F
   Method A: using trifluoroacetic acid
   To a 22 L flask containing 98:2 trifluoroacetic acid:water (8.9 L) was added tert-butyl (1[2
   ({ 4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3
 5 yl}amino)ethyl]amino Isulfonyl)carbamate (1931 g, 3.42 mol) in portions over 10 minutes.
   The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1.5 h, the solvents removed in
   vacuo, and chased with dichloromethane (2 L). The resulting solid was treated a second time
   with fresh 98:2 trifluoroacetic acid:water (8.9 L), heated for 1 h at 40-50 'C, the solvents
   removed in vacuo, and chased with dichloromethane (3 x 2 L). The resulting white solid
 0 was dried in a vacuum drying oven at 50 'C overnight. A total of 5409 g was processed in
   this manner (4990 g, quant. yield). LCMS for C 12HI 2BrFN 7 0 5 S (M+H)+: m/z = 463.9, 465.9.
   1H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ): 8 8.08 (dd, J = 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.72 (in, I H), 7.59 (t., J =
   8.7 Hz, I H), 6.67 (t, J = 5.9 Hz, 1H), 6.52 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 3.38 (dd, J = 12.7, 6.3 Hz, 2
   H), 3.11 (dd, J= 12.3, 6.3 Hz).
 5 Method B: using hydrochloric acid
   To solution of tert-butyl ({ [2-({ 4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro- 1,2,4
   oxadiazol-3-yl] -1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl I amino)ethyl] amino Isulfonyl)carbamate (4500 g) in
   isopropanol (9 L) was added 4 N HCI in dioxane (8.0 L). The reaction mixture was heated to
   40-45 'C and was held at this temperature for about 5 h. Upon completion of reaction (as
20 indicated by HPLC analysis), heptane (72 L) was added to the reaction mixture. The
   resultant mixture was heated to 68 'C and held at this temperature for 1 h. The batch was
   allowed to cool to about 23 'C. The solid product was collected by filtration. The wet cake
   was washed with a mixture of heptane (16 L) and isopropanol (1.2 L) and dried under suction
   on a filter funnel. The crude product was dissolved in ethyl acetate (10.8 L) at about 43 'C.
25 Heptane (32.4 L) was added to the ethyl acetate solution over 15 min. The batch was heated
   to 70 'C and held at this temperature for 1 h. The batch was cooled to 21 'C and solid
   product was collected by filtration. The wet cake was washed with heptane (14.4 L) and
   dried under suction on the filter funnel. Yield of product was 3034g. LC-MS, 'H and        13 C
   NMR, and HPLC data of this lot were identical to those of the product prepared by Method
30 A.
                                                 107

    Step G: (Z)-4-({2- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl } amino)-N-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'
    hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide
    Method A:
 5  To a crude mixture of N-[2-({ 4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4,5-dihydro- 1,2,4
    oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl amino)ethyl]sulfamide (2.4 mol) containing residual
    amounts of trifluoroacetic acid stirring in a 22 L flask was added THF (5 L). The resulting
    solution was cooled to 0 'C using an ice bath and 2 N NaOH (4 L) was added at a rate so that
    the temperature did not exceed 10 'C. After stirring at ambient temperature for 3 h (LCMS
 0  indicated no starting material remained), the pH was adjusted to 3-4 with concentrated HCI
    (-500 mL). The THF was removed in iacuo, and the resulting mixture was extracted with
    ethyl acetate (15 L). The organic layer was washed with water (5 L), brine (5 L), and the
    solvents removed in vacuo to afford a solid. The solid was triturated with MTBE (2 x 2 L),
    combined with three other reactions of the same size, and dried overnight in a convection
 5  oven to afford a white solid (3535 g). The solid was recrystallized (3 x 22 L flasks, 2:1
    deionized ultra-filtered water:ethanol, 14.1 L each flask) and dried in a 50 'C convection
    oven to a constant weight to furnish the title compound as an off-white solid (3290 g, 78%).
    LCMS for CnHI4BrFN70 4S (M+H)*: m/z = 437.9, 439.9.             H NMR (400 MHz, DMSO-d6 ):
    8 11.51 (s, 1 H), 8.90 (s, I H), 7.17 (t, J= 8.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.11 (dd, J= 6.1, 2.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.76
 .0 (in, 1 H), 6.71 (t, J= 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.59 (s, 2 H), 6.23 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 1 H), 3.35 (dd, J= 10.9,
    7.0 Hz, 2 H), 3.10 (dd, J = 12.1, 6.2 Hz, 2 H). X-ray crystallographic analysis determined
    that the title compound adopts a Z-configuration (Z-isomer) with respect to the carbon
    nitrogen double bond (C=N) of oxime functionality.
    Method B:
25  N-[2-({4-[4-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-5-oxo-4.5-dihydro-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl]-1,2,5
    oxadiazol-3-yl}amino)ethyl]sulfamide (1500 g) was added to THF (6.0 L) and the batch was
    cooled to 2 'C. Trifluoroacetic acid (0.006 L) was added to the batch at 2 'C followed by
    addition of aqueous sodium hydroxide solution (384 g of solid NaOH in 4.8 L of water) at 0
    2 C. The batch was warmed up to about 16 C and held for 5 h. Upon completion of
30  reaction, as indicated by HPLC, concentrated hydrochloric acid (0.7 L) was added to adjust
    the pH of the batch to 3-4. About 4 L of solvent was removed from the batch by distillation
    under reduced pressure. The batch was added to ethyl acetate (18.0 L) and the biphasic
    mixture was stirred for 15 min. The organic layer was washed with water (6.0 L) and brine
                                                  108

  (6.0 L) sequentially. The organic solution was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate.
  Magnesium sulfate was filtered and the filtrate was evaporated to dryness under reduced
  pressure. To the resultant solid, MTBE (3.0 L) was added and the slurry was stirred for 15
  min. The solid product was isolated by filtration. The filter cake was washed with MTBE
5 (1.2 L) and heptane (1.2 L) sequentially. The solid was dried on the filter funnel under
  suction to give 1416 g (87.9%) of the product. The product (2440g, obtained in two batches)
  was further purified by re-slurrying in MTBE (9.6 L) at 17 "C for 2 h. The batch was cooled
  to 6 C for 30 min. The solid product was collected by filtration and the wet cake was
  washed with MTBE (3.6 L) and heptane (1.2 L) sequentially. The product was dried in a
0 vaccum oven at 20 C to give 1962 g of the title compound in 81.7% yield. LC-MS, 'H and
  13 C  NMR, and HPLC data of this lot were identical to those of the product prepared by
  Method A.
  Example 24
5 Compound Data
          Select physical and biological activity data for the compounds of Example 1-19 are
  summarized in Table 2 below. IC5o data are from the assay provided in Example A.
                                               Table 2
                                                         0OH           R3
                                            H
     20                    R1'N N              N0      N   N           R
                Ex.                                            IDO           MS
                No.      R1        R2       R3       n      ICso (nM)      [M+H]
                        NH 2       Br        F        1        <200        437.9,
                                                                            439.9
                  2     Me         Br        F        1        <200        437.0,
                                                                            439.0
                  3     NH2        Br        F        2        <100        451.8,
                                                                            453.9
                        Me         Br        F        2        <100        451.0,
                  4
                                                                            453.0
                  5     NH 2       Cl        F        1        <200         394.0
                  6     Me         Cl        F        1        <200         393.0
                  7     NH2        Cl        F        2        <200         408.1
                  8     Me         Cl        F        2        <200         407.1
                  9     NH 2      CF 3       F        1        <100         428.0
                                               109

                10     Me       CF 3       F        1        <100          427.0
                11    NH 2      CF 3       F        2        <100          442.0
                12     Me       CF 3       F        2        <100          441.1
                13    NH 2      CF 3       H        1        <500          410.0
                14     Me       CF 3       H        1        <200          409.1
                15    NH2       CF3        H        2        <200          424.0
                16     Me       CF3        H        2        <200          423.1
                17     Me      CH 3        F        1        <500          373.1
                18    NH 2      CN         F        1        <750          385.0
                19     Me       CN         F        1        <500         406.0*
              *[M + Na]
  Example 25
  Compound Data
5        IDO IC50 data (see Example A) for the compounds of Examples 20 and 21 is provided
  below in Table 3.
                                             Table 3
                                 Ex. No.           IDO IC50 (nM)
                                     20                  <500
                                     21                  <750
  Example 26
0 NMR Data
         'H NMR data (Varian Inova 500 spectrometer, a Mercury 400 spectrometer, or a
  Varian (or Mercury) 300 spectrometer) for the compounds of Examples 1-21 is provided
  below in Table 4.
                                             Table 4
  No.      Solvent     MHz                                'H NMR Spectra
                               8 11.5 (s, 1 H), 8.89 (s, 1 H), 7.17 (dd, J= 8.8, 8.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.09
    1     DMSO-d 6      400    (dd, J = 6.1, 2.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.76 - 6.72 (m, 1 H), 6.56 (dd, J = 6.1,
                               6.1 Hz, 1 H), 6.51 (s, 2 H), 6.17 (dd, J= 5.9, 5.9 Hz, 1 H), 3.27
                               3.21 (m, 2 H). 2.94 - 2.88 (m, 2 H), 1.78 - 1.71 (m, 2 H)
                               6 11.49 (s, IH), 8.90 (s, 1H), 7.17 (m, 2H), 7.09 (dd, J = 6.3, 2.5
   2      DMSO-d 6      400    Hz, IH), 6.26 (t, J= 6.1 Hz, 1H), 3.33 (m, 2H), 3.13 (q, J= 6.0
                               Hz, 2H), 2.89 (s, 3H)
                               6 11.5 (s, 1 H), 8.89 (s, 1 H), 7.17 (dd, J= 8.8, 8.6 Hz, I H), 7.09
   3      DMSO-d6       400    (dd, J= 6.1, 2.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.76 - 6.72 (m, 1 H), 6.56 (dd, J= 6.1,
                               6.1 Hz, I H), 6.51 (s, 2 H), 6.17 (dd, J= 5.9, 5.9 Hz, 1 H), 3.27
                               3.21 (m, 2 H), 2.94 - 2.88 (m, 2 H), 1.78 - 1.71 (m, 2 H)
   4       CD 30D       400    687.12 (dd, J= 5.9, 2.4 Hz, IH), 7.05 (t, J=8.7Hz, IH), 6.83 (m,
                                             110

                1H), 3.39 (t, J= 6.8 Hz, 2H), 3.14 (t, J= 6.6 Hz, 2H), 2.94 (s, 3H),
                1.87 (m, 2H)
                6 7.96 (dd, J = 6.8, 2.1 Hz, 0.05 H), 7.32 - 7.29 (m, 0.1 H), 7.18
5  DMSO-d 6 400 (dd, J= 9.1, 9.1 Hz, 0.95 H), 6.93 (dd, J= 6.4, 2.7 Hz, 0.95 H),
                6.71 - 6.66 (m, 0.95 H), 6.33 (br s, 1 H), 3.35 - 3.27 (m, 2 H), 3.10
                - 3.06 (m, 2 H)
                6 11.50 (s, 1H), 8.91 (s, 1H), 7.19 (m, 2H), 6.96 (dd, J = 6.7, 2.5
6  DMSO-d 6 400 Hz, 1H), 6.71 (m, 1H), 6.26 (t, J = 6.4 Hz, 1H), 3.32 (m, 2H), 3.13
                (g, J = 5.8 Hz, 2H), 2.89 (s, 3H)
                6 8.90 (s, I H), 7.20 (dd, J= 9.2, 9.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.96 (dd, J= 6.4,
7  DMSO-do  400 2.7 Hz, 1 H), 6.72 - 6.69 (m, 1 H). 6.55 (t, J= 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.51
                (s, 2 H), 6.16 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 1 H), 3.28 - 3.21 (m, 2 H), 2.93 - 2.87
                (m, 2 H), 1.76 - 1.72 (m, 2 H)
8   CD30D   300 6 7.06 (t, J = 8.9 Hz, 1H), 6.98 (m, 1H), 6.80 (m, 1H), 3.73 (m,
                2H), 3.28 (m, 2H), 2.94 (s, 3H), 1.28 (m, 2H)
                6 11.60 (s, IH), 9.06 (s, 1H), 7.30 (t, J = 10.1 Hz, 1H), 7.14 (dd, J
9  DMSO-d6  400 = 6.1, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.03 (m, IH), 6.71 (t, J = 5.3 Hz, 1H), 6.58 (s,
                2H), 6.23 (t, J = 6.2 Hz, 1H), 3.36 (q, J = 6.5 Hz, 2H), 3.08 (m,
                2H)
                6 11.60 (s, 1H), 9.07 (s, 1H), 7.30 (t, J = 10.1 Hz, 1H), 7.18 (t, J =
10 DMSO-d 6 400 6.0 Hz, 1H), 7.13 (dd, J = 6.0, 2.7 Hz, 1H), 7.03 (m, 1H), 6.27 (t, J
                = 6.3 Hz, 1H), 3.32 (m, 2H), 3.13 (q, J = 6.0 Hz, 2H), 2.89 (s, 3H)
                6 11.6 (s, I H), 9.08 (s, 1 H), 7.31 (dd, J = 10.0, 9.4 Hz, 1 H), 7.13
11 DMSO-d 6 300 (dd, J = 6.4, 2.9 Hz, I H), 7.05 - 6.99 (m, 1 H), 6.58 (t, J = 6.0 Hz,
                1 H), 6.52 (s, 2 H), 6.17 (t, J = 5.9 Hz, I H), 3.28 - 3.21 (m, 2 H),
                2.94 - 2.87 (m, 2 H), 1.79 - 1.72 (m, 2 H)
                6 11.6 (s, 1 H), 9.07 (s, 1 H), 7.30 (dd, J = 10.0, 9.6 Hz, 1 H), 7.13
12 DMSO-do  400 (dd, J= 6.2, 2.5 Hz, 1 H), 7.05 - 7.02 (m, 2 H), 6.19 (t, J= 5.8 Hz,
                1 H), 3.27 - 3.21 (m, 2 H), 2.99 - 2.94 (m, 2 H), 2.87 (s, 3 H), 1.76
                - 1.72 (m, 2 H)
13  CD 30D  400 6 7.36 (t, J = 7.8 Hz, IH), 7.23 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, IH), 7.10 (s, IH),
                7.03 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, 1H), 3.48 (m, 2H), 3.29 (m, 2H)
                6 11.63 (s, 1H), 9.08 (s, 1H), 7.39 (t, J = 7.6 Hz, 1H), 7.21 (m,
14 DMSO-d 6 500 2H), 7.10 (s, 1H), 6.99 (d, J = 8.1 Hz, 1H), 6.28 (t, J = 5.4 Hz,
                1H), 3.36 (q, J = 5.8 Hz, 2H), 3.17 (q, J = 5.8 Hz, 2H), 2.91 (s,
                3H)
                6 11.6 (s, 1 H), 9.12 (s, 1 H), 7.37 (dd, J= 8.0, 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 7.21
15 DMSO-d 6 400 7.18 (m, 1 H), 7.07 (s, 1 H), 6.95 (d, J = 10.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.52 (br s,
                3 H), 6.17 (t, J= 6.0 Hz, 1 H), 3.28 - 3.22 (m, 2 H), 2.93 - 2.89
                (m, 2 H), 1.77 - 1.73 (m, 2 H)
                6 11.6 (s, 1 H), 9.11 (s, I H). 7.37 (dd. J= 8.0, 8.0 Hz, 1 H), 7.20
16 DMSO-d 6 400 (d, J = 7.8 Hz, 1 H), 7.07 - 7.01 (m, 2 H), 6.96 (d, J = 8.0 Hz, I
                H), 6.20 (t, J= 5.9 Hz, 1 H), 3.27 - 3.22 (m, 2 H), 2.99 - 2.94 (m,
                2 H), 2.87 (s, 3 H), 1.78 - 1.71 (m, 2 H)
                6 11.25 (s, 1H), 8.61 (s, 1H), 7.18 (m, 1H), 6.91 (m, 1H), 6.72 (m,
17 DMSO-d 6 400 1H), 6.58 (m, 1H), 6.24 (s, 2H), 3.32 (m, 2H), 3.11 (m, 2H), 2.89
                (s, 3H), 2.05 (s, 3H).
18 DMSO-d6  400 6 11.65 (s, IH), 9.08 (s, 1H), 7.34 (t, J = 9.1 Hz, 1H), 7.22 (dd, J =
                5.4, 2.8 Hz, 1H), 7.13 (m, 1H), 6.70 (t, J = 5.9 Hz., IH), 6.59 (s,
                              111

                                    2H), 6.20 (t, J = 6.1 Hz, IH), 3.34 (in, 2H), 3.09 (in, 2H)
                                    6 11.65 (s, IH), 9.08 (s, 1H), 7.35 (in, 1H), 7.18 (in, 3H), 6.56 (in,
    19      DMSO-d6         400     1H), 6.23 (in, 1H), 6.24 (s, 2H), 3.32 (in, 2H), 3.14 (in, 2H), 2.89
                                    (s, 3H).
                                    6 10.87 (s, 1 H), 7.75 (s, 1 H), 6.83 (t, J = 7.3 Hz, I H), 6.68 (t, J=
    20      DMSO-d6         400     6.0 Hz, 1 H), 6.56 (s, 2 H), 6.30 (t, J = 6.0 Hz, I H), 6.23 (s, 1 H),
                                    4.56 (d, J = 7.0 Hz, 2 H), 3.32 (q, J = 6.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.07 (q, J =
                                    6.3 Hz, 2 H)
                                    6 10.88 (s, 1 H), 7.77 (s, 1 H), 6.83 (t, J = 6.8 Hz, 1 H), 6.68 (t, J
    21      DMSO-d 6        400     = 5.9 Hz, I H), 6.56 (s, 2 H), 6.30 (t, J = 5.9 Hz, 1 H), 6.22 (s, 1
                                    H), 4.55 (d, 2 H), 3.32 (q, J= 6.3 Hz, 2 H), 3.06 (q, J = 6.3 Hz, 2
                                    H)
   Example A: Human indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenasae               (IDO) enzyme assay
           Human indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenasae (IDO) with an N-terminal His tag was
   expressed in E.coli and purified to homogeneity. IDO catalyzes the oxidative cleavage of the
 5 pyrrole ring of the indole nucleus of tryptophan to yield N'-formylkynurenine. The assays
   were performed at room temperature as described in the literature using 95 nM IDO and 2
   mM D-Trp in the presence of 20 mM ascorbate, 5 tM methylene blue and 0.2 mg/mL
   catalase in 50 mM potassium phosphate buffer (pH 6.5). The initial reaction rates were
   recorded by continuously following the absorbance increase at 321 nm due to the formation
 0 of N'-formlylkynurenine (See: Sono, M., et al., 1980, J. Biol. Chem. 255, 1339-1345).
   Example B: Determination of inhibitor activity in HeLa cell-based indoleamine 2,3
   dioxygenase (IDO)/Kynurenine assay
           HeLa cells (#CCL-2) were obtained from the American Type Tissue Culture
15 Collection (ATCC, Manassas, VA) and routinely maintained in minimum essential medium
   (eagle) with 2 mM L-glutamine and Earle's BSS adjusted to contain 1.5 g/L sodium
   bicarbonate, 0.1 mM non-essential amino acids, 1 mM sodium pyruvate and 10 % fetal
   bovine serum (all from Invitrogen). Cells were kept at 37 "C in a humidified incubator
   supplied with 5 % C02. The assay was performed as follows: HeLa cells were seeded in a 96
20 well culture plate at a density of 5 x 103 per well and grown overnight. On the next day, IFN
   y (50 ng/mL final concentration) and serial dilutions of compounds (in total volume of 200
   gL culture medium) were added into cells. After 48 hours of incubation, 140 L of the
   supernatant per well was transferred to a new 96 well plate. 10 p.L of 6.1 N trichloroacetic
   acid (#T0699, Sigma) was mixed into each well and incubated at 50 'C for 30 min to
25 hydrolyze N-formylkynurenine produced by indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase to kynurenine. The
                                                  112

    reaction mixture was then centrifuged for 10 min at 2500 rpm to remove sediments. 100 ptL
    of the supernatant per well was transferred to another 96 well plate and mixed with 100 ptl of
    2% (w/v) p-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde (#15647-7, Sigma-Aldrich) in acetic acid. The
    yellow color derived from Kynurenine was measured at 480 nm using a SPECTRAmax 250
 5  microplate reader (Molecular Devices). L-kynurenine (#K8625, Sigma) was used as standard.
    The standards (240, 120, 60, 30, 15, 7.5, 3.75, 1.87 jtM) were prepared in 100 pL culture
    media and mixed with equal volume of 2 % (w/v) p-dimethylaminobenzaldehyde. The
    percent inhibition at individual concentrations was determined and the average values of
    duplicates were obtained. The data was analyzed by using nonlinear regression to generate
 0  IC50  values (Prism Graphpad). See: Takikawa 0, et al., 1988, J. Biol. Chem., 263(4): 2041-8.
    Example C: Determination of effect of IDO inhibitors on T cell proliferation that is
    suppressed by IDO-expressing dendritic cells
             Monocytes were collected from human peripheral mononuclear cells by
 5  leukophoresis. Monocytes were then seeded at a density of I x 106 cells/well in a 96 well
    plate, using RPMI 1640 medium supplemented with 10 %fetal bovine serum and 2 mM L
    glutamine (all from Invitrogen). Adherent cells were retained on the plate after overnight
    culture at 37 'C. Adherent monocytes were then stimulated for 5-7 days with 100 ng/ml GM
    CSF (# 300-03, PeproTech) and 250 ng/ml IL-4 (#200-04, PeproTech), followed by
 '0 activation with 5 pg/mL LPS from Salmonella typhimuriuni (#437650, Sigma) and 50 ng/mL
    IFN-y (# 285-IF, R&D Systems) for additional 2 days to induce dendritic cell maturation.
             After dendritic cell activation, the medium was replaced with completed RPMI 1640
    supplemented with 100-200 U/mL IL-2 (#CYT-209, ProSpec-Tany TechnoGene) and 100
    ng/mL anti-CD3 antibody (#555336, PharMingen), T cells (2-3 x 105 cells/well), and serial
25  dilutions of IDO compounds. After incubation for 2 more days, T cell proliferation was
    measured by BrdU incorporation assay, using a colorimetric Cell Proliferation ELISA kit per
    manufacturer's instruction (#1647229, Roche Molecular Biochemicals). Cells were
    continuously cultured for 16-18 hrs in presence of 10 tM BrdU labeling solution. Then, the
    labeling medium was removed, and 200 tL FixDenat per well was added to the cells and
30  incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature. The FixDenat solution was removed and 100
    pL/well anti-BrdU-POD antibody conjugate working solution was added. The reaction was
    carried out for 90 minutes at room temperature. The antibody conjugate was then removed,
    and cells were rinsed three times with 200 Lt/well washing solution. Finally, 100 pL/well of
                                                   113

    substrate solution was added and the results were obtained using a microplate reader (Spectra
    Max PLUS, Molecular Devices) during color development. Multiple readings at various time
    points were obtained to ensure the data was within the linear range. The data was routinely
    obtained from replicated experiments, and appropriate controls were included. See: Terness
 5  P, et al. 2002, J. Exp. Med., 196(4): 447-57; and Hwu, P, et al. 2000, J. Immunol., 164(7):
    3596-9.
    Example D: In vivo testing of IDO inhibitors for antitumor activity
             In vivo anti-tumor efficacy can be tested using modified tumor allograft/xenograft
 0  protocols. For instance, it has been described in the literature that IDO inhibition can
    syngerize with cytotoxic chemotherapy in immune-competent mice (Muller, A.J., et al. 2005,
    Nat. Med. 11:312-319). This synergy was shown to be dependent on T-cells by comparison
    of the synergistic effects of an investigational IDO inhibitor in murine tumor xenograft
    models (e.g. B 16 and related variants, CT-26, LLC) grown in immune competent syngenic
 5  mice to that observed in syngenic mice treated with neutralizing anti-CD4 antibodies, or the
    same tumors grown in immune-compromised mice (e.g. nu/nu).
             The concept of differential anti-tumor effects in immune-competent versus immune
    compromised mice may also permit testing of investigational IDO inhibitors as single agents.
    For instance, LLC tumors grow well in their syngenic host strain, C57B1/6. However, if
 '0 these mice are treated with the IDO inhibitor i-MT (versus placebo) the formation of tumors
    is markedly delayed, implying that IDO inhibition was growth inhibitory (Friberg, M., et al.
    2002, Int. J. Cancer 101:151-155). Following this logic, one can examine the efficacy of
    IDO inhibition in the LLC xenograft tumor model grown in C57B1/6 immune competent
    mice and compare that to the effects of IDO inhibitors on LLC tumor growth in nude or
25  SCID mice (or C57B1/6 mice treated with antibodies that neutralize T-cell activity). As the
    effects of relieving the tumor-mediated immune suppressive activity of IDO will likely differ
    depending on the immunogenic potential of different tumor models, genetic modifications
    can be made to the tumor cells to increase their immunogenic potential. For instance,
    expression of GM-CSF in B16.FIO cells increases their immunogenic potential (Dranoff, G.,
30  et al. 1993, Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci., USA, 90:3539-3543). As such, in some tumor models (e.g.
    B16.F1O) one can generate [poly]clones that express immune stimulatory proteins such as
    GM-CSF and test the growth inhibitory effects of IDO inhibitors against tumors established
    from these tumor cells in both immune-competent and -compromised mice.
                                                  114

            A third avenue for assessing the efficacy of IDO inhibitors in vivo employs 'pre
    immunization' murine tumor allograft/xenograft models. In these models, immune
    competent mice are sensitized to a specific tumor antigen or antigens to mimic a therapeutic
    anti-tumor vaccination. This primes the mice for an anti-tumor response mediated by the
 5  immune system when mice are subsequently challenged with murine tumor cell lines
    (possessing similar tumor antigens to those used for immunization) in xenograft experiments.
    Expression of IDO has been shown to blunt the anti-tumor response and allow xenografts to
    grow more rapidly. Importantly, the growth of tumors in this model is inhibited by the IDO
    inhibitor 1-MT (Uyttenhove, C., et al. 2003, Nat. Med. 9:1269-1274). This model is
 0  particularly attractive as IDO activity is permissive for P815 tumor growth and specific
    inhibition of IDO should therefore growth inhibitory.
            Lastly, therapeutic immunization may be used to evaluate the impact of IDO
    inhibitors in vivo. For example, it has been demonstrated using B 16-BL6 cells that one can
    challenge Blk/6 mice with an intravenous injection of tumor cells followed by treatment with
 5  a well characterized immunogenic peptide (e.g. TRP-2) expressed by the tumor cells (Ji, et
    al., 2005, J. Immunol, 175: 1456-63). Importantly, immune system modifiers, such as anti
    CTL-4 antibody, can improve responses to such therapeutic immunizations. The impact of
    IDO inhibitors may be evaluated in a similar manner - tumor peptide immunization with or
    without IDO inhibitor. Efficacy is assess by animal survival (time to morbidity) or by the
 '0 measurement of tumor metastases to the lungs and/or other organs at defined timepoints.
            In any/all of the above mentioned models, it may also be possible to directly and/or
    indirectly measure the number and/or activity of tumor reactive immune cells. Methods for
    measuring the number and/or activity of tumor reactive immune cells are well established and
    can be performed using techniques familiar to those schooled in the art (Current Protocols in
25  Immunology, Vol. 4, Coligan, J. E., et al.; Immunotherapy of Cancer, Human Press, 2006,
    Disis, M.L. and references therein). Conceptually, a reduction in the immune suppressive
    effects of IDO may result in increased numbers or reactivity of tumor specific immune cells.
    Further, IDO inhibition may further increase the number or reactivity of tumor reactive
    immune cells when combined with other therapeutics, for example chemotherapeutics and/or
30  immune modulators (e.g. anti-CTLA4 antibody).
            All allograft/xenograft experiments can be performed using standard tumor
    techniques (reviewed by Corbett, et al., In Cancer Drug Discovery and Development:
    AnticancerDrug Development Guide: PreclinicalScreening, Clinical Trials, and Approval,
    2 "dEd.  Teicher, B.A. and Andrews, P.A., Gumana Press Inc.: Totowa, NJ, 2004). The
                                                  115

    cloning and introduction of genes (e.g. IDO, GM-CSF) into tumor cell lines, can be
    performed using techniques familiar to those schooled in the art (reviewed in Sambrook, J.
    and Russel, D., Molecular Cloning: A laboratoryManual (3rd edition), Cold Spring Harbor
    Laboratory Press: Cold Spring Harbor, NY, 2001).
 5
    Example E: In vivo testing of IDO inhibitors in human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV
    1) encephalitis model
    1. Cell isolationand viral infection
            Monocytes and PBL can be obtained by countercurrent centrifugal elutriation of
 0  leukopheresis packs from HIV-1, 2 and hepatitis B seronegative donors. Monocytes are
    cultivated in suspension culture using Teflon flasks in Dulbecco' s Modified Eagle's Medium
    (DMEM, Sigma-Aldrich) supplemented with 10 % heat-inactivated pooled human serum, 1
    % glutamine, 50 Vg/mL gentamicin, 10 tg/mL ciprofloxacin (Sigma), and 1000 U/mL highly
    purified recombinant human macrophage colony stimulating factor. After seven days in
 5  culture, MDM are infected with HIV-1ADA at multiplicity of infection of 0.01.
    2. Hu-PBL-NOD/SCIDHIVE mice
            Four-wk old male NOD/C.B-17 SCID mice can be purchased (Jackson Laboratory).
    Animals are maintained in sterile microisolator cages under pathogen-free conditions. All
 '0 animals are injected intraperitoneally with rat anti-CD122 (0.25 mg/mouse) three days before
    PBL transplantation and twice with rabbit asialo-GMI antibodies (0.2 mg/mouse) (Wako)
    one day before and three days after PBL injection (20 x 106 cells/mouse). HIV-1ADA-infected
    MDM (3 x 105 cells in 10 pL) are injected intracranially (i.c.) eight days following PBL
    reconstitution generating hu-PBL-NOD/SCID HIVE mice. Immediately following i.c.
25  injection of HIV- I infected MDM the hu-PBL-NOD/SCID HIVE mice are subcutaneously
    (s.c) implanted with control (vehicle) or compound pellets (14 or 28 day slow release,
    Innovative Research). Initial experiments are designed to confirm the induction of virus
    specific CTL in the hu PBL-NOD/SCID HIVE animals treated with IDO compounds. This is
    confirmed by tetramer staining and neuropathologic analyses of MDM elimination from the
30  brain tissue. Then, the experiment is designed to analyze human lymphocyte reconstitution,
    humoral immune responses, and neuropathological alterations. In these experiments, animals
    are bled on day 7 and sacrificed at 14 and 21 days after i.c. injection of human MDM. Blood
    collected in EDTA-containing tubes is used for flow cytometry and plasma is used for
                                                 116

    detection of HIV-1 p24 using ELISA (Beckman Coulter TM). HIV-1-specific antibodies are
    detected by Western blot tests according to the manufacturer instructions (Cambridge Biotech
    HIV-I Western blot kit, Calypte Biomedical). Similar amount of virus-specific antibodies are
    detected in control and compound-treated animals. A total of three independent experiments
 5  can be performed using three different human leukocyte donors.
    3. FACScan of peripheralblood and spleen in hu PBL-NOD/SCIDHIVE mice
            Two-color FACS analysis can be performed on peripheral blood at wk 1-3 and
    splenocytes at wk 2 and 3 after i.c. injection of human MDM. Cells are incubated with
 0  fluorochrome-conjugated monoclonal Abs (mAbs) to human CD4, CD8, CD56, CD3, IFN-y
    (eBioscience) for 30 min at 4 'C. To evaluate the cellular immune response, IFN-y
    intracellular staining is performed in combination with anti-human CD8 and FITC
    conjugated anti-mouse CD45 to exclude murine cells. To determine the Ag-specific CTL,
    allophycocyanin-conjugated tetramer staining for HIV-198g (p17 (aa77-85) SLYNTVATL,
 5  SL-9) and HIV-P1 [(aa476-485) ILKEPVHGV, IL-9] is performed on
    phytohemaglutinin/interleukin-2 (PHA/IL-2)- stimulated splenocytes. Cells are stained
    following the recommendation of the NIH/National Institute of Allergy and Infections
    Disease, National Tetramer Core Facilities. Data were analyzed with a FACS CaliburTm using
    CellQuest software (Becton Dickinson Immunocytometry System).
 10
    4. Histopathologyand image analyses
            Brain tissue is collected at days 14 and 21 after i.c. injection of MDM, fixed in 4 %
    phosphate-buffered paraformaldehyde and embedded in paraffin or frozen at -80 C for later
    use. Coronal sections from the embedded blocks are cut in order to identify the injection site.
25  For each mouse, 30-100 (5- tm-thick) serial sections are cut from the human MDM injection
    site and 3-7 slides (10 sections apart) are analyzed. Brain sections are deparaffinized with
    xylene and hydrated in gradient alcohols. Immunohistochemical staining follows a basic
    indirect protocol, using antigen retrieval by heating to 95 'C in 0.01 mol/L citrate buffer for
    30 min for antigen retrieval. To identify human cells in mouse brains, mAb to vimentin (1:50,
30  clone 3B4, Dako Corporation), which identifies all human leukocytes is used. Human MDM
    and CD8* lymphocytes are detected with CD68 (1:50 dilution, clone KP 1) and CD8 (1:50
    dilution, clone 144B) antibodies, respectively. Virus-infected cells are labeled with mAb to
    HIV- 1 p24 (1:10, clone Kal- 1, all from Dako). Reactive murine microglial cells are detected
                                                  117

    with Iba- 1 antibody (1:500, Wako). Expression of human IDO (huIDO) is visualized with
    Abs obtained from the Department of Cell Pharmacology, Central Research Institute,
    Graduate School of Medicine, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan. Primary antibodies are
    detected with the appropriate biotinylated secondary antibodies and visualized with avidin
 5  biotin complexes (Vectastain Elite ABC kit, Vector Laboratories) and horseradish peroxidase
    (HRP) coupled dextran polymer (EnVision, Dako Corporation). Immunostained sections are
    counterstained with Mayer's hematoxylin. Sections from which primary antibody is deleted
    or irrelevant IgG isotype is incorporated served as controls. Two independent observers in a
    blinded fashion count the numbers of CD8* lymphocytes, CD68* MDM and HIV-1 p24* cells
 0  in each section from each mouse. Light microscopic examination is performed with a Nikon
    Eclipse 800 microscope (Nikon Instruments Inc). Semi-quantitative analysis for Ibal
    (percentage of area occupied by immunostaining) is carried out by computer-assisted image
    analysis (Image-Pro@Plus, Media Cybernetics) as previously described.
 5  5. Statisticalanalysis
             Data can be analyzed using Prism (Graph Pad) with Student t-test for comparisons
    and ANOVA. P-values < 0.05 were considered significant.
    6. Reference
 .0          Poluektova LY, Munn DH, Persidsky Y, and Gendelman HE (2002). Generation of
    cytotoxic T cells against virus-infected human brain macrophages in a murine model of HIV
    1 encephalitis. J. Immunol. 168(8):3941-9.
             Various modifications of the invention, in addition to those described herein, will be
25  apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description. Such modifications are
    also intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Each reference, including all
    patent, patent applications, and publications, cited in the present application is incorporated
    herein by reference in its entirety.
             Where the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprised" or "comprising" are used in
    this specification, they are to be interpreted as specifying the presence of the stated features,
    integers, steps or components referred to, but not to preclude the presence or addition of one
    or more other feature, integer, step, component or group thereof.
                                                  118

The Claims defining the invention are as follows:
1.      A compound of Formula I:
                                                      OH           3
                               R            n
                                              N ON
or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, wherein:
        R' is NH2 or CH3;
        R 2 is Cl, Br, CF 3 , CH 3 , or CN;
        R3 is H or F; and
        n is I or 2.
2.      The compound of claim 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein R' is
NH2 .
3.      The compound of claim 1, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof wherein, R' is
CH 3 .
4.      The compound of any one of claims 1 to 3, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R 2 is Cl.
5.      The compound of any one of claims 1 to 3, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R 2 is Br.
6.      The compound of any one of claims I to 3, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R 2 is CF3.
7.      The compound of any one of claims 1 to 3, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R 2 is CH 3.
                                              119

8.      The compound of any one of claims 1 to 3, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R 2 is CN.
9.      The compound of any one of claims 1 to 8, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R3 is H.
10.     The compound of any one of claims 1 to 8, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein R3 is F.
11.     The compound of any one of claims 1 to 10, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein n is 1.
12.     The compound of any one of claims 1 to 10, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof, wherein n is 2.
13.     A compound of claim 1 selected from:
        4-(12- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl Iamino)-N-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'
hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
        N-(3-Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-(12
[(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl Iamino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
        4-(13-[(Aminosulfonyl)amino]propyl I amino)-N-(3-bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N
hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
        N-(3 -Bromo-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({3
[(methylsulfonyl)aminoipropyl I amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
        4-(12- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl) amino)-N-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy
1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
        N-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({2
[(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl) amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
        4-(3- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino]propyl I amino)-N-(3-chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-N'
hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
        N-(3-Chloro-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({3
[(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl Iamino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
        4-({ 2- [ (Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl Iamino)-N- [4-fluoro-3 -(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
N'-hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
                                             120

         N-[4-Fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-N'-hydroxy-4-({2
[(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl) -amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
         4-(13- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino]propyl }amino)-N-[4-fluoro-3- (trifluoromethyl)phenyl]
N'-hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
         N-[4-Fluoro-3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-N'-hydroxy-4-({3
[(methylsulfonyl)amino]propyl }-amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
         4-({ 2- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl Iamino)-N'-hydroxy-N- [3
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] - 1,2 ,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
         N'-Hydroxy-4-({2- [(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl) amino)-N-[3
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
         4-(13- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] propyl }amino)-N'-hydroxy-N- [3
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
         N'-Hydroxy-4-({ 3- [(methylsulfonyl)amino] propyl 1amino)-N-[3
(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
         N-(4-Fluoro-3-methylphenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({2
[(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl) amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
         4-(12- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl) amino)-N-(3-cyano-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy
1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide; and
         N-(3-Cyano-4-fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-4-({ 2
[(methylsulfonyl)amino] ethyl) amino)- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide;
         or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
 14.     A compound which is 4-(12- [(aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl amino)-N-(3 -bromo-4
fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.
15.      A compound which is 4-(12- [(aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl Iamino)-N-(3 -bromo-4
fluorophenyl)-N'-hydroxy- 1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide.
16.      A solid form of the compound of claim 15 which is crystalline.
17.      A solid form of the compound of claim 15 which is substantially anhydrous.
                                             121

18.     A solid form of the compound of claim 15 having a melting point of about 162 to
about 166 'C.
19.     A solid form of the compound of claim 15 having a DSC thermogram substantially as
shown in Figure 2.
20.     A solid form of the compound of claim 15 having at least one XRPD peak, in terms of
2-theta, selected from about 18.40, about 18.9', about 21.80, about 23.90, about 29.2', and
about 38.70.
21.     A solid form of the compound of claim 15 having at least two XRPD peaks, in terms
of 2-theta, selected from about 18.40, about 18.90, about 21.80, about 23.90, about 29.20, and
about 38.70.
22.     A solid form of the compound of claim 15 having at least three XRPD peaks, in terms
of 2-theta, selected from about 18.40, about 18.9', about 21.80, about 23.90, about 29.2', and
about 38.7'.
23.     A solid form of the compound of claim 15 having an XRPD pattern substantially as
shown in Figure 1.
24.     A composition comprising a compound of any one of claims 1 to 15, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
25.     A compound which is 4-( 2- [(aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl } amino)-N- [(4-bromo-2
furyl)methyl]-N'-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide,      or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.
26.     A compound which is 4-({2- [(Aminosulfonyl)amino] ethyl } amino)-N- [(4-chloro-2
furyl)methyl]-N'-hydroxy-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide, or a pharmaceutically
acceptable salt thereof.
                                            122

27.     A method of inhibiting activity of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase comprising
contacting said indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase with a compound of any one of claims 1 to 15,
25, or 26, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
28.     A method of inhibiting immunosuppression in a patient comprising administering to
said patient an effective amount of a compound of any one of claims 1 to 15, 25, or 26, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
29.     A method of treating cancer., viral infection, depression, a neurodegenerative disorder,
trauma, age-related cataracts, organ transplant rejection, or an autoimmune disease in a
patient comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a
compound of any one of claims 1 to 15, 25, or 26, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt
thereof.
30.     The method of claim 29 further comprising administering to said patient an anti-viral
agent, a chemotherapeutic, an immunosuppressant, radiation, an anti-tumor vaccine, an anti
viral vaccine, cytokine therapy, or a tyrosine kinase inhibitor.
31.     A method of treating melanoma in a patient comprising administering to said patient a
therapeutically effective amount of a compound of any one of claims 1 to 15, 25, or 26, or a
pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.
32.     The method of claim 31 further comprising administering to said patient a
chemotherapeutic, radiation, an anti-tumor vaccine, or cytokine therapy.
33.     A process for preparing a compound of Formula F15:
                                                           OH        R3
                                 0 0           H         N         I
                                               H2
                             H2 N    -H           /        Nn
                                                           H
                                                 N     N
                                                     '
                                                 F15
or a salt thereof, wherein R 2 is Cl, Br, CF 3, CH 3, or CN; R 3 is H or F; and n is 1 or 2,
comprising:
a)      reacting a compound of Formula F13:
                                                123

                                    NHPgl
                                O=6S'NHNHPg         N'O
                                                       N
                                             N, N
                                                                   2
                                                         O-R2
                                            F13              R3
or a salt thereof, wherein Pg' is an amino protecting group, with an amino deprotecting agent
to afford a compound of Formula F14:
                              H2 N    HN
                                                N    N
                                                                3
                                                               R
                                              F14
or a salt thereof; and
b)       reacting said compound of Formula F14 with a base to afford said compound of
Formula F15.
34.      The process of claim 33 wherein R 2 is Br, R 3 is F, and n is 1.
35.      The process of claim 33 wherein R 2 is Br, R3 is F, and n is 2.
36.      The process of claim 33 wherein R 2 is Cl, R 3 is F, and n is 1.
37.      The process of claim 33 wherein R 2 is Cl, R3 is F, and n is 2.
38.      The process of claim 33 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R 3 is F, and n is 1.
39.      The process of claim 33 wherein R2 is CF 3, R3 is F, and n is 2.
40.      The process of claim 33 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R 3 is H, and n is 1.
41.      The process of claim 33 wherein R 2 is CF 3. R3 is H, and n is 2.
                                             124

42.     The process of claim 33 wherein R 2 is CN, R3 is F, and n is 1.
43.     The process of claim 33 wherein said Pg' is alkoxycarbonyl.
44.     The process of claim 43 wherein said alkoxycarbonyl is tert-butoxycarbonyl.
45.     The process of claim 33 wherein said amino deprotecting agent is trifluoroacetic acid.
46.     The process of claim 33 wherein said amino deprotecting agent is hydrochloric acid.
47.     The process of claim 46 wherein said reacting is performed in a solvent comprising
dioxane.
48.     The process of any one of claims 46 or 47 wherein said reacting is performed in
isopropanol.
49.     The process of claim 33 wherein said base comprises an alkali metal hydroxide.
50.     The process of claim 33 wherein said base is sodium hydroxide.
51.     The process of claim 33 wherein said compound of Formula F13 is obtained by
treating a compound of Formula F12:
                                          H         0     O
                                H2 N      N           N
                                             F12         R3
or a salt thereof, with Pg'-NH-sulfonyl chloride followed by treatment with an organic base
to afford said compound of Formula F13.
52.     The process of claim 51 wherein said PgI comprises alkoxycarbonyl.
53.     The process of claim 52 wherein said alkoxycarbonyl is tert-butoxycarbonyl.
                                            125

54.      The process of claim 51 wherein said treating is performed in a solvent.
55.      The process of claim 51 wherein said treating is performed in a halogenated solvent.
56.      The process of claim 55 wherein said halogenated solvent is dichloromethane.
57.      The process of claim 51 wherein said organic base comprises a tri(C16)alkylamine.
58.      The process of claim 51 wherein said organic base is triethylamine.
59.      The process of claim 51 wherein said compound of Formula F12 is obtained by
reducing a compound of Formula F11:
                                           NH          NN
                                             nN      N
                                                           ..     R2
                                               F11            R3
or a salt thereof.
60.      The process of claim 59 wherein said reducing is carried out in the presence of
sodium iodide, chlorotrimethylsilane, and methanol.
61.      The process of claim 59 further comprising purifying said compound of Formula F12
by:
a)       reacting said compound of Formula F12 with an amino protecting agent to afford a
compound of Formula F 12':
                                             H          ||       O
                                 Pg2N~(nN                   N
                                               N    N
                                                               R3
                                                 F1 2'
or a salt thereof, wherein Pg 2N is a protected amine;
                                              126

b)      purifying said compound of Formula F12' to provide a purified compound of Formula
F12'; and
c)      reacting said purified compound of Formula F12' with an amino deprotecting agent to
provide a purified compound of Formula F12.
62.     The process of claim 61 wherein said amino protecting agent is di-t-butyl dicarbonate.
63.     The process of claim 61 wherein said purifying is performed by chromatography on
silica gel.
64.     The process of claim 62 wherein said amino deprotecting agent is hydrochloric acid.
65.     The process of claim 64 wherein said reacting is performed in a solvent comprising
dioxane.
66.     The process of any one of claims 64 or 65 wherein said reacting is performed in
isopropanol.
67.     The process of claim 59 wherein said compound of Formula F11 is obtained by
treating a compound of Formula F1O:
                                            H      N-O
                                  L109nN              N
                                                ~N
                                              F10         R3
or a salt thereof, wherein L' is selected from alkylsulfonyl, haloalkylsulfonyl, and
arylsulfonyl; with an azide reagent to afford said compound of Formula F1 1.
68.     The process of claim 67 wherein L' is alkylsulfonyl.
69.     The process of claim 68 wherein said alkylsulfonyl is methanesulfonyl.
70.     The process of claim 67 wherein said azide reagent is sodium azide.
                                              127

71.     The process of claim 51 wherein said compound of Formula F12 is obtained by
reacting a compound of Formula F24:
                                                    -O
                                           H       N       O
                                  PgN~N     N      N
                                                  N/
                                                       ..    R2
                                         F24              R3
or a salt thereof, wherein Pg-N is a protected amine; with an amino deprotecting agent to
afford said compound of Formula F12.
72.     The process of claim 71 wherein said protected amine is (C6H5)3C-NH.
73.     The process of claim 71 wherein said protected amine is (C 6H5) 2 C=N.
74.     The process of any one of claims 71-73 wherein said deprotecting agent comprises an
organic acid.
75.     The process of any one of claims 71-72 wherein said deprotecting agent comprises an
organic acid and an organosilane.
76.     The process of claim 75 wherein said organic acid is trifluoroacetic acid and said
organosilane comprises trialkylsilane.
77.     The process of claim 76 wherein said trialkylsilane is tri(isopropyl)silane.
78.     The process of claim 74 wherein said organic acid is trifluoroacetic acid.
79.     The process of claim 71 wherein said compound of Formula F24 is obtained by
treating a compound of Formula F22:
                                          H      N'O
                                  F3 C    N          N
                                       0    N'N
                                                             2
                                             F22           R
                                             128

or a salt thereof, with a compound of Formula F25:
                                           Pg 3 N      n
                                                 F25
or a salt thereof, wherein Pg 3N is a protected amine; and a coupling reagent to provide said
compound of Formula F24.
80.      The process of claim 79 wherein said protected amine is (C6H5)3C-NH.
81.      The process of claim 79 wherein said protected amine is (C 6 H5) 2C=N.
82.      A process for preparing a compound of Formula F8:
                                             H         N  0
                                                                  O
                                             N             N
                                H3CO     InN               N
                                                N, N       /
                                                             ...    R
                                           F8                    R3
or a salt thereof, wherein, R 2 is Cl, Br, CF 3 , CH 3, or CN; R 3 is H or F; and n is I or 2;
comprising reacting a compound of Formula F22:
                                            H         N'O
                                    F3 C    N            N
                                         0    N'N        /
                                                               07R2
                                                F22             R3
or a salt thereof; with a compound of Formula F25':
                                           H3COnOH
                                                  F25'
or a salt thereof; and a coupling reagent to provide said compound of Formula F8.
83.      The process of any one of claims 79-82 wherein said coupling reagent comprises a
tertiary phosphine and a dialkyl azodicarboxylate.
84.      The process of claim 83 wherein said tertiary phosphine is a triarylphosphine.
                                                 129

85.     The process of claim 84 wherein said triarylphosphine is triphenylphosphine.
86.     The process of claim 83 wherein said dialkyl azodicarboxylate is diisopropyl
azodicarboxylate.
87.     The process of claim 82 wherein said compound of Formula F22 is obtained by
a)      treating a compound of Formula F2 1:
                                                    N    OH
                                      H2N
                                                       NH
                                           N      N
                                                   o'  /
                                            F21
                                                            R3
or a salt thereof, with carbonyl diimidazole to afford a compound of Formula F26:
                                          H2 N            N
                                                N      N
                                               N, N
                                                                  R
                                                F26            R3
or a salt thereof; and
b)      treating said compound of Formula F26 with trifluoroacetic anhydride to afford said
compound of Formula F22.
88.     A process for preparing a compound of Formula F15:
                                                             OH         3
                             H2N                             N          2N
                                                  N     N
                                                   F15
or a salt thereof, wherein R 2 is Cl, Br, CF 3 , CH 3, or CN; R 3 is H or F; and n is I or 2,
comprising:
a)      reacting a compound of Formula F12:
                                                 130

                                   NH2           N'
                                        N           N   O
                                          N, CN
                                                            R
                                                            R2
                                                        3
                                                       R
                                            F12
or a salt thereof, with sulfamide and an organic base to afford a compound of Formula F14:
                              H2 N   H                        O
                                               N    N
                                                             R3
                                             F14
or a salt thereof, and
b)       reacting said compound of Formula F14, or a salt thereof, with a base to afford said
compound of Formula F15.
89.      The process of claim 88 wherein said organic base comprises a heterocyclic base.
90.      The process of claim 88 wherein said organic base is pyridine.
91.      The process of claim 88 wherein reacting a compound of Formula F12 further
comprises heating the reaction.
92.      The process of claim 91 wherein said heating is performed using microwave
irradiation.
93.      The process of claim 88 wherein said base comprises an alkali metal hydroxide.
94.      The process of claim 88 wherein said base is sodium hydroxide.
95.      A compound of Formula F9:
                                             131

                                            H          N' 0    O
                                      HNO
                                               N, N
                                                                   R
                                                                  R2
                                                   F9         R
or a salt thereof, wherein R 2 is Cl. Br, CF 3 , CH 3, or CN; R 3 is H or F; and n is I or 2.
96.     The compound of claim 95 wherein R 2 is Br, R3 is F, and n is 1.
97.     The compound of claim 95 wherein R 2 is Br, R 3 is F, and n is 2.
98.     The compound of claim 95 wherein R 2 is Cl, R 3 is F, and n is 1.
99.     The compound of claim 95 wherein R 2 is Cl, R 3 is F, and n is 2.
100.    The compound of claim 95 wherein R 2 is CF3, R3 is F, and n is 1.
101.    The compound of claim 95 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R 3 is F, and n is 2.
102.    The compound of claim 95 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R 3 is H, and n is 1.
103.    The compound of claim 95 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R 3 is H, and n is 2.
104.    The compound of claim 95 wherein R 2 is CH 3, R3 is F, and n is 1.
105.    The compound of claim 95 wherein R 2 is CN, R 3 is F, and n is 1.
106.    A compound of Formula F12:
                                     NH2HN'
                                          n       N          O
                                                            R3
                                                F12
                                                 132

or a salt thereof, wherein R 2 is Cl, Br, CF3, CH3, or CN; R 3 is H or F; and n is 1 or 2.
107.    The compound of claim 106 wherein R 2 is Br, R3 is F, and n is 1.
108.    The compound of claim 106 wherein R2 is Br, R 3 is F, and n is 2.
109.    The compound of claim 106 wherein R2 is Cl, R3 is F, and n is 1.
110.    The compound of claim 106 wherein R 2 is Cl, R3 is F, and n is 2.
111.    The compound of claim 106 wherein R 2 is CF3 , R3 is F, and n is 1.
112.    The compound of claim 106 wherein R 2 is CF3, R3 is F, and n is 2.
113.    The compound of claim 106 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R3 is H, and n is 1.
114.    The compound of claim 106 wherein R 2 is CF3, R3 is H, and n is 2.
115.    The compound of claim 106 wherein R 2 is CH3, R3 is F, and n is 1.
116.    The compound of claim 106 wherein R 2 is CN, R3 is F, and n is 1.
117.    A compound of Formula F14:
                               H2NN
                                                  N    N
                                                             N, N 0R 2
                                                                R3
                                                F14
or a salt thereof, wherein R 2 is Cl, Br, CF 3, CH 3, or CN; R 3 is H or F; and n is 1 or 2.
118.    The compound of claim 117 wherein R 2 is Br, R 3 is F, and n is 1.
119.    The compound of claim 117 wherein R 2 is Br, R3 is F, and n is 2.
                                                133

120.    The compound of claim 117 wherein R 2 is Cl, R3 is F, and n is 1.
121.    The compound of claim 117 wherein R 2 is Cl, R3 is F, and n is 2.
122.    The compound of claim 117 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R3 is F, and n is 1.
123.    The compound of claim 117 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R3 is F, and n is 2.
124.    The compound of claim 117 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R3 is H, and n is 1.
125.    The compound of claim 117 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R3 is H, and n is 2.
126.    The compound of claim 117 wherein R 2 is CH 3, R 3 is F, and n is 1.
127.    The compound of claim 117 wherein R 2 is CN, R3 is F, and n is 1.
128.    A process for preparing a compound of Formula F19:
                                                                         3
                                                           0    HO
                                                                H
                                CH.                          N"
                            CH3       N         n
                                      H            N, \N      H
                                        H          N ,N
                                                   F19
or a salt thereof, wherein R 2 is Cl, Br, CF 3 , CH 3 , or CN; R3 is H or F; and n is 1 or 2;
comprising:
a)      reacting a compound of Formula F 12:
                                     NH2H            N-N
                                            N HN '
                                                             R3
                                                F12
or a salt thereof, with methanesulfonyl chloride in the presence of an organic base to afford a
compound of Formula F20:
                                                 134

                                                            N'O
                            CH 3S0 2HN               /        N
                                                                  / R2
                                                    F20         R3
b)      reacting said compound of Formula F20, or a salt thereof, with a base to afford said
compound of Formula F19.
129.    The process of claim 128 wherein said reacting a compound of Formula F12 further
comprises a halogenated solvent.
130.    The process of claim 129 wherein said halogenated solvent is dichloromethane.
131.    The process of claim 128 wherein said organic base comprises a tri(CI _6)alkylamine.
132.    The process of claim 128 wherein said organic base is triethylamine.
133.    The process of claim 128 wherein said base comprises an aqueous base.
134.    The process of claim 128 wherein said base comprises an alkali metal hydroxide.
135.    The process of claim 128 wherein said base comprises sodium hydroxide.
136.    A process for preparing a compound of Formula F19:
                                                                       R3
                                                           0 OH
                            CH .       N                N                2
                                      NN
                                      H                  N
                                                       '0
                                                   F19
or a salt thereof, wherein R 2 is Cl, Br, CF 3 , CH 3. or CN; R 3 is H or F; and n is 1 or 2;
comprising:
a)      reacting a compound of Formula F 17:
                                                 135

                                                             ,OH
                                       H        n             NH 2
                                                   N   ,N
                                            F17
or a salt thereof, with hydrochloric acid followed by treatment with a nitrite reagent to afford
a compound of Formula F18:
                                                               9 OH
                                   CH      N                     CI
                                                     F18
or a salt thereof; and
b)      reacting said compound of Formula F18 with a compound of Formula F27:
                                                          R3
                                          H2N              2
                                                  F27
or a salt thereof, to afford said compound of Formula F19.
137.    The process of claim 136 wherein R 2 is Br, R 3 is F, and n is 1.
138.    The process of claim 136 wherein R 2 is Br, R 3 is F, and n is 2.
139.    The process of claim 136 wherein R 2 is Cl, R3 is F, and n is 1.
140.    The process of claim 136 wherein R 2 is Cl, R3 is F, and n is 2.
141.    The process of claim 136 wherein R 2 is CF3, R 3 is F, and n is 1.
142.    The process of claim 136 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R3 is F, and n is 2.
143.    The process of claim 136 wherein R 2 is CF3, R3 is H, and n is 1.
144.    The process of claim 136 wherein R 2 is CF 3, R 3 is H, and n is 2.
                                              136

145.    The process of claim 136 wherein R 2 is CH 3 , R3 is F, and n is 1.
146.    The process of claim 136 wherein R 2 is CN, R3 is F, and n is 1.
147.    The process of claim 136 wherein the nitrite reagent is aqueous sodium nitrite.
148.    A compound of Formula F18:
                                                              NJOH
                                                    H         N
                                   Me     N                     CI
                                                      N   ,N
                                                     F18
or a salt thereof, wherein n is 1 or 2.
149.    The compound of claim 148 wherein n is 1.
150.    The compound of claim 148 wherein n is 2.
151.    A process for preparing a compound of Formula F28:
                                                         N ,,OH
                              H2N                N       N
                                                                      R4
                                                  F28
or a salt thereof, wherein R 4 is F, Cl, Br, or I; and n is 1 or 2; comprising:
a)      reacting a compound of Formula F29:
                                   NH             N'O
                                        n             N   O
                                                 F29
or a salt thereof, with sulfamide and an organic base to afford a compound of Formula F30:
                                               137

                                           H        N '- O
                                O O
                            H2N           nNN          N
                                            F30
or a salt thereof, and
b)       reacting said compound of Formula F30 with a base to afford said compound of
Formula F28.
152.     The process of claim 151 wherein R 4 is Cl and n is 1.
153.     The process of claim 151 wherein R 4 is Br and n is 1.
154.     The process of claim 151 wherein said organic base comprises a heterocyclic base.
155.     The process of claim 151 wherein said organic base comprises pyridine.
156.     The process of claim 151 wherein reacting a compound of Formula F29 further
comprises heating the reaction.
157.     The process of claim 157 wherein said heating is performed using microwave
irradiation.
158.     The process of claim 151 wherein said base comprises an aqueous base.
159.     The process of claim 151 wherein said base comprises an alkali metal hydroxide.
160.     The process of claim 151 wherein said base comprises sodium hydroxide.
 161.    The process of claim 151 wherein said compound of Formula F29 is obtained by
reducing a compound of Formula F3 1:
                                           138

                                          H        N'O>=O
                                           N       N
                                     3        0
                                               F31               R
or a salt thereof.
162.    The process of claim 161 wherein said reducing is carried out in the presence of
sodium iodide, chlorotrimethylsilane, and methanol.
 163.   The process of claim 161 wherein said compound of Formula F31 is obtained by
treating a compound of Formula F32:
                                           H       N'O
                                L109nN                N
                                             N 1 N
                                                                  R
                                              F32
or a salt thereof, wherein L' is selected from alkylsulfonyl, haloalkylsulfonyl, and
arylsulfonyl; with an azide reagent to afford said compound of Formula F3 1.
164.    The process of claim 163 wherein L' is alkylsulfonyl.
165.    The process of claim 164 wherein said alkylsulfonyl comprises methanesulfonyl.
166.    The process of claim 163 wherein said azide reagent comprises sodium azide.
167.    A compound which is 3-{4-[(2-aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[(4
chloro-2-furyl)methyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one, or a salt thereof.
168.    A compound which is 3-{4-[(2-azidoethyl)amino]- 1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl} -4-(4-chloro
2-furyl)methyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5 (4H)-one, or a salt thereof.
169.    A compound which is 4-[(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl]-3-{4-[(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]
1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}  -l,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one,   or a salt thereof.
                                              139

170.    A compound which is N-[(4-chloro-2-furyl)methyl]-N'-hydroxy-4-[(2
methoxyethyl)amino] -1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide. or a salt thereof.
171.    A compound which is 3-14-[(2-aminoethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[(4
bromo-2-furyl)methyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one, or a salt thereof.
172.    A compound which is 3-{4-[(2-azidoethyl)amino]- 1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-4-[(4-bromo
2-furyl)methyl]-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5 (4H)-one, or a salt thereof.
173.    A compound which is 4- [(4-bromo-2-furyl)methyl] -3- {4- [(2-hydroxyethyl)amino]
1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl}-1,2,4-oxadiazol-5(4H)-one, or a salt thereof.
174.    A compound which is N-[(4-bromo-2-furyl)methyl]-N'-hydroxy-4-[(2
methoxyethyl)amino]-1,2,5-oxadiazole-3-carboximidamide, or a salt thereof.
                                           140

                                       <U+2736><U+2734><U+2738>
<removed-date>
                                  <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761>
                      <U+273C><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
                      <U+273B><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+273A><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
              <U+261B><U+2706>s
              <U+2665><U+2721> <U+2739><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
                <U+2720>
              <U+271F><U+2748><U+2706><U+2461><U+271E>
              s<U+2665>
              <U+2706><U+271D><U+2665>¦ <U+2702><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
                      <U+2737><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
                      <U+2701><U+2735><U+2735><U+2735>
                        <U+2735>    <U+2701><U+2735>   <U+2737><U+2735>                     <U+2702><U+2735>   <U+2739><U+2735>
                                       <U+275A><U+2707><U+2666><U+2732><U+275A><U+2764><U+2704>t<U+275B> <U+272D><U+275E><U+2704><U+260E><U+272E>

                                                                                <U+2737><U+2734><U+2738>
<removed-date>
                                                                           <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761>
              <U+2702><U+2704><U+2460><U+260E>                                            <U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B><U+261E> <U+270C><U+270D><U+270E><U+271E><U+270F><U+270F><U+2711><U+271E><U+271F><U+271F><U+2720><U+2712><U+2713>                            <U+271F><U+2714><U+2715><U+271F><U+271F><U+2715><U+2720><U+270F><U+270F><U+2721> <U+271F><U+2716><U+2717><U+2718><U+2711><U+2717><U+2714><U+2711>
               <U+2772><U+2763><U+276B><U+2732><U+2736>
                       <U+2726><U+272B><U+274B><U+274D><U+2732><U+2736><U+2701><U+2732><U+273C><U+273E><U+2746> <U+272D><U+25B2><U+2747><U+2732><U+2735><U+2735><U+273D><U+2732><U+2736><U+2736><U+2701><U+25CF><U+272E>
                       <U+274B><U+274D><U+2732><U+2736><U+2701><U+2732><U+273C><U+273E><U+2746> <U+272D><U+25B2><U+2747><U+2732><U+2735> <U+2735><U+273D><U+2732><U+2736><U+2736><U+2701><U+25CF><U+272E><U+2731> <U+2701><U+2733><U+2738><U+2701><U+2735><U+2735> <U+2660><U+2763>
                   <U+2701>
                       <U+25BC><U+2761>t<U+2764><U+2666><U+275E><U+273F> <U+2738><U+2735><U+2732><U+2701><U+273D><U+2735><U+2745><U+2736><U+2735><U+275E><U+2761><U+2763>r<U+2761><U+2761><U+2734><U+2660> <U+2710><U+2665>
                        <U+2738><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735> <U+2732><U+2701><U+273D><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735><U+27A6><U+2748> <U+2736><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735><U+2735><U+27A6><U+2748><U+2734><U+2660><U+2710><U+2665>
                   <U+2735>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+2732><U+2701>                                                                                            ¦<U+2665>t<U+2761><U+2763>r<U+275B><U+2767>       <U+2739><U+2736><U+2739><U+2733><U+2739><U+2738> <U+2660><U+274F>
                                                                                                                  <U+2665><U+2666>r<U+2660><U+275B><U+2767><U+2710><U+2462><U+2761><U+275E>   <U+2736><U+273C><U+273D><U+2733><U+273B><U+2738> <U+274F><U+2763><U+276B><U+2732><U+2736>
                                                                                                                <U+2756><U+2665>s<U+2761>t          <U+2701><U+2739><U+273C><U+2733><U+273D><U+2739> <U+27A6><U+2748>
                  <U+2732><U+2739>                                                                                            P<U+2761><U+275B><U+2766>           <U+2701><U+273A><U+273A><U+2733><U+2736><U+273A> <U+27A6><U+2748>
                  <U+2732><U+273B>
                  <U+2732><U+273D>                                   ¦ <U+2665>t<U+2761><U+2763>r<U+275B><U+2767>        <U+2732><U+2701><U+273A><U+273B><U+2733><U+2736><U+273C> <U+2660><U+274F>
                                                         <U+2665><U+2666>r<U+2660> <U+275B><U+2767><U+2710><U+2462> <U+2761><U+275E>   <U+2732><U+2736><U+2736><U+2735><U+2733><U+2739><U+2701> <U+274F><U+2763><U+276B><U+2732><U+2736>
                                                       <U+2756><U+2665>s<U+2761>t            <U+2736><U+273B><U+2701><U+2733><U+273B><U+273C><U+27A6><U+2748>
                                                       P<U+2761><U+275B><U+2766>             <U+2736><U+273B><U+2738><U+2733><U+273D><U+2739><U+27A6><U+2748>
                 <U+2732><U+2736><U+2735>
                    <U+2739><U+2735>   <U+273B><U+2735>           <U+273D><U+2735>         <U+2736><U+2735><U+2735>          <U+2736><U+2701><U+2735>         <U+2736><U+2739><U+2735>           <U+2736><U+273B><U+2735>   <U+2736><U+273D><U+2735>   <U+2701><U+2735><U+2735>   <U+2701><U+2701><U+2735>         <U+2701><U+2739><U+2735>     <U+2701><U+273B><U+2735>  <U+27A6><U+2748>
              <U+270D><U+271B><U+275C><U+2717> <U+271C><U+274A><U+275A><U+275A><U+270D><U+274A>|                                                                                                   <U+271A>
                                                                                                                         <U+2759><U+275A><U+261E>| <U+2759><U+2719> <U+2711><U+2715><U+270F><U+271F>

                                                                    <U+2738><U+2734><U+2738>
<removed-date>
                                                                <U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2738>
              <U+2759><U+2717><U+2718><U+2719><U+2767><U+271A><U+273F> <U+274B><U+274D><U+2732><U+261E><U+2704><U+2732><U+271B><U+271C><U+2746>                                                        <U+274B><U+2722><U+2767><U+271A><U+273F> <U+274B><U+274D><U+2732><U+261E><U+2704><U+2732><U+271B><U+271C><U+2746><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701><U+261E>
              <U+2759><U+2722><U+2462><U+271A><U+273F> <U+261E><U+261E><U+2702><U+271B><U+270D><U+2706><U+2701> <U+2718><U+2723>                                       <U+272C><U+272F><U+2730>               <U+2756><U+2719><U+271A><U+2731><U+2717><U+2724><U+2666><U+2731><U+273F> <U+2727><U+2769>
              <U+25BC><U+271A><U+2724><U+2725><U+2666><U+275E><U+273F> |<U+2717><U+2718><U+2719> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2718><U+2722><U+2665> <U+2724><U+2666> <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701><U+2726><U+2727>                                           |<U+2740><U+2665> <U+2741><U+2717><U+2724><U+271A><U+273F> <U+261E><U+270D><U+2732><U+25C6><U+2666><U+2742><U+2732><U+2704><U+2701><U+2701><U+271B> <U+261E><U+270C><U+273F><U+270D><U+270C>
              <U+2727><U+2666><U+2718><U+2718><U+271A><U+2665><U+2724><U+273F> ¦<U+25C6><U+2727><U+2747><U+2701><U+2704><U+260E><U+270C><U+2706><U+2701> <U+2729><U+25B2><U+2747><U+2732><U+2701><U+2701><U+271D><U+2732><U+261E><U+261E><U+2704><U+25CF><U+272B>                                        ¦<U+2665>s<U+2724><U+2731><U+2740><U+2718><U+271A><U+2665><U+2724><U+273F> <U+2743><U+25CF><U+2746> <U+25D7><U+270D><U+2701><U+2701> <U+2771><U+2706><U+2702><U+260E> <U+2747><U+2740><U+2722><U+2767><U+275E> <U+261E><U+271C><U+270C>
                   <U+261E><U+2704><U+2701>                                                                                                         <U+2701><U+2702><U+271D>
<removed-apn>
                                                  <U+2735><U+2733> <U+2736><U+2737><U+273B><U+272A>       <U+2736><U+2733><U+2739> <U+2737><U+272A>
                                                  <U+272D><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735> <U+273B><U+273C><U+273A><U+2660><U+2763><U+272E>   <U+272D><U+2735><U+2733><U+2736><U+273B><U+273D><U+2739><U+2660><U+2763><U+272E>
                   <U+261E><U+2701><U+2701>
                                                                                                                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2706>
                                                                                                                                       <U+261B>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2748><U+27A6>
                   <U+271D><U+2701>                                                                                                                  <U+2734>
              <U+261B>
              <U+2721><U+2720>
                                                                                   <U+273A><U+2735><U+2733><U+273C><U+2736><U+272A>                                              <U+2720><U+2721>
                                                                                   <U+272D><U+273A><U+2733><U+273E><U+273B><U+2736><U+2660><U+2763><U+272E>                                           t
              t                                                                                                                        <U+2764>
              <U+2764>                                                                                                                <U+2701><U+2702><U+260E>     <U+2710><U+271F>
              <U+2710><U+271F>                                                                                                                       <U+2761>
              <U+2761>                                                                                                                        <U+2772>
              <U+2772>                                                                                                                        <U+271E>
                   <U+2706><U+2701>                                                                                                                  <U+2710><U+2708>r
                                                                                                                                       <U+2761>
                                                                                                                                       <U+2749>
                                                                                                          <U+2736><U+273C><U+2733><U+273B><U+2735><U+272A>
                                                                                                          <U+272D><U+2737><U+2733><U+2735><U+273B><U+273E><U+2660><U+2763><U+272E>
                                                                                                                               <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                   <U+260E><U+2701>
                   <U+2704><U+2701>                                                                                                           <U+2701><U+2702><U+2701>
                         <U+2701>          <U+261E><U+2701><U+2701>                <U+2704><U+2701><U+2701>            <U+270C><U+2701><U+2701>             <U+260E><U+2701><U+2701>              <U+270D><U+2701><U+2701>                  <U+2706><U+2701><U+2701>
                                                                <U+275A><U+270E><U+270F><U+2663><U+270E><U+2711><U+275B><U+2712><U+2709><U+2711><U+270E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715><U+2716>                              <U+276F><U+2744><U+2745><U+274A><U+274F><U+2751>P<U+2773><U+2768> <U+276C><U+276D><U+276A><U+276B><U+2774> <U+2775><U+275C> <U+275D><U+2744>P<U+2762><U+2751><U+2765><U+2766><U+274F><U+2744><U+2762>P

