ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to awarding a gaming prize for the two handed card
game of Baccarat in which players or participants are able to bet on either a Bank
outcome or a Player outcome.        In particular, the invention provides a gaming
player management       method and computer implemented         system adapted to
determine an award event for awarding a bonus prize in a Baccarat game.        The
method includes recording player wagers placed on Banker, Player and Tie
results, and recording actual Baccarat hand results, and making a bonus prize
determination based on the following predetermined criteria being:
        a predefined rate at which a bonus prize is to be accumulated;
       a record of the bonus prize amount corresponding to individual players,
and;
       the occurrence of a tie event within a Baccarat hand result to trigger the
awarding of the bonus prize to at least one player.
Figure 4

     41
                   43    44
        42               46
   4048                   47
49                    51
              CtD,52
           Figure 4

                                               1
       SYSTEM FOR BONUS PAYMENT IN BACCARAT RELATED APPLICATIONS
   This application claims priority to Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
   2010903801 in the name of Crown Melbourne Limited, which was filed on 25 August
 5 2010, entitled "Method      & System for Bonus Payment in Baccarat" and the
   specification thereof is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all
   purposes.
   FIELD OF INVENTION
10
   The present invention relates to a system of awarding at least one gaming prize. In
   preferred forms, the present invention relates to card games and, in particular, the two
   handed card game of Baccarat in which players or participants are able to bet on
   either a Bank outcome or a Player outcome.
15
   BACKGROUND ART
   It is to be appreciated that any discussion of documents, devices, acts or knowledge
   in this specification is included to explain the context of the present invention.
20 Further, the discussion throughout this specification comes about due to the
   realisation of the inventor and/or the identification of certain related art problems by
   the inventor. Moreover, any discussion of material such as documents, devices, acts
   or knowledge in this specification is included to explain the context of the invention in
   terms of the inventor's knowledge and experience and, accordingly, any such
25 discussion should not be taken as an admission that any of the material forms part of
   the prior art base or the common general knowledge in the relevant art in Australia, or
   elsewhere, on or before the priority date of the disclosure and claims herein.
   Baccarat is a casino card game and it is considered to have originated in Italy and
30 been introduced to the world via France over 500 years ago. The name "Baccarat" is
   unusual in that the game is named after the worst hand, worth 0. The highest score
   that can be achieved is 9 (from a 4 and 5, 10 and 9, or A and 8, etc). Whilst there are

                                                  2
   some variants of the game, basically Baccarat in its most prevalent forms may be
   described, by way of example, as follows.
   Baccarat is a simple game with only three possible outcomes, namely, 'Player',
 5 'Banker', and 'Tie'. However, it is to be noted that the term 'Player' does not refer to
   the customer or participant, and the term 'Banker' does not refer to the house. They
   are just options on which the participants can bet and, as such, 'Player' and 'Banker'
   are essentially two nominal entities or surrogate players who oppose each other. In
   the context of this description, if reference is made to "player" in lower case it is to be
10 taken as reference to a participant in the game and not the notional surrogate Player,
   which will be referenced by use of a capital P for Player. The casino or house takes
   the opposite position of each wager placed by the participant. With up to 12 playing
   positions at a Baccarat table, a participant may place his or her wager in one of two
   manners: (1) with the Banker or with the Player. The Player's objective is to get a
15 hand that has a score which is closer to 9 than the Banker's.         An exemplary table
   layout in accordance with known related art is shown in Figure 1.
   After the placing of wagers with the Banker or Player, two initial cards are dealt to
   each of the surrogates, Player and Banker. The game is played modulo ten, that is, if
20 the total value sum of a hand equals or exceeds 10, then 10 is subtracted from the
   total, i.e., only the last digit is used as the value of the hand. In this way, hands will
   always have a value of between 0 and 9. Aces have a value of 1, 10's and face cards
   a value of 0. All other cards have their face value.
25 If the Player's (or Banker's) initial two card values have a sum or value of 8 or 9, those
   cards are turned over immediately. The other must do likewise and the hands are
   resolved. A 9 wins over any lesser total. If neither the Player nor Banker has a 9,
   then 8 wins over any lesser total. Ties are known as a stand-off or alternatively a
   push. If neither the Banker nor Player initial cards have a count of 8 or 9 (requiring
30 immediate exposure of the hands and a resolving of the scores), then the Player has
   the next play and must stand or draw a third card according to predetermined rules
   that are dependant on the variant of the game and generally based on the odds of

                                                 3
   bettering the Banker's initial hand count relative to the Player's possible final hand
   count. They may be fixed rules.
   If a third card is drawn, its value is added to the values of the initial cards, modulo ten,
 5 to arrive at the Banker's final count. If no third card is drawn, the Banker's initial count
   becomes the Banker's final count. Once play is completed by the Banker, the final
   hands are turned over and resolved with the hand with the final count closest to 9
   deemed the winner. Wagers are then paid even money to all those who wagered with
   the victorious Banker or Player. Wagers with the loser are collected by the house. As
10 ties are a push, no one wins or loses. Since the odds favour the Banker, a house
   commission, say 5%, may be collected by the casino on winning bets placed with the
   Banker.
   In casino gaming it is difficult to arrange systems and methods which both attract
15 players and provide appropriate returns to both the casino and the participants.
   Depending on the circumstances it is also important that participants feel that the
   game is fair and that appropriate rewards are provided for wagers given particular
   events.
20 In Baccarat, there are no choices effectively and the game's events are predicated by
   the cards as they are dealt. Moreover, the dealing of the cards or when the Player or
   Banker stands is governed by the predetermined rules noted above and, all those
   participants wagering with the Player (or Banker) are bound by the play and luck of
   their surrogate.
25
   In one known exemplary form, despite its simplicity (or perhaps because of it), the
   punto banco version of Baccarat offers some of the lowest house advantage available
   in a casino. The Player bet has a house advantage of 1.24%, and the Banker bet
   (despite the 5% house commission) has a house advantage of 1.06%. The tie bet
30 has a much higher house advantage of 14.44% (when using six decks) or 14.36%
   (when using eight decks). As would be appreciated by the person skilled in the art,
   these house advantage figures may also apply to similar wagers within other forms of

                                              4
   the game of Baccarat noting that the actual values may change according to factors
   such as, for example, whether six or eight decks of cards are involved.
   Because of its attraction for wealthy "high roller' players, a casino may win or lose
 5 millions of dollars a night on the game.            On this point alone, it can         be
   disadvantageous for a casino in the event cheating occurs at the Baccarat table.
   With the above discussion in mind, it would be desirable to provide a system for
   Baccarat introducing new aspects of the game which would attract an increased
10 number of participants and/or increase the level of participation of existing participants
   without increasing the likelihood of making the game vulnerable to dishonest play.
   However, it would also be desirable to maintain simplicity of the game to prevent
   participants from becoming confused or disillusioned by having to be aware of new
   rules or an increase in the number of rules for the game.
15
   SUMMARY OF INVENTION
   It is an object of the embodiments described herein to overcome or alleviate at least
   one of the above noted drawbacks of related art systems or to at least provide a
20 useful alternative to related art systems.
   In accordance with the present invention, there is provided a method of playing a
   game with predetermined rules using at least one standard deck of playing cards,
   wherein at least two but no more than three playing cards are dealt to a Banker hand,
25 at least two but no more than three playing cards are dealt to a Player hand, and one
   or more individual players wager on either (i) a Banker result wherein the Banker
   hand has a score closer or equal to a predetermined high value than the Player hand,
   (ii) a Player result wherein the Player hand has a score closer or equal to a
   predetermined high value than the Banker hand, or (iii) a Tie result wherein the
30 Banker and Player hands have the same score, the method including:
           recording player wagers placed on Banker, Player and Tie results;
           recording actual hand results; and
           making a bonus prize determination based on the predetermined criteria being:

                                                5
          a predefined rate at which a bonus prize is to be accumulated;
              a record of the bonus prize amount corresponding to individual players,
          and;
              the occurrence of a tie event within a hand result to trigger the awarding of
 5        the bonus prize to at least one player.
   In an embodiment, the predefined rate for the bonus prize comprises a percentage in
   the range of about 1% to about 10% of the amount a player has wagered on one of
   the Player or Banker results.
10
   The record of the bonus prize amount corresponding to individual players may
   comprise one of:
          total bonus amount accumulated by an individual player;
          total bonus paid out to an individual player;
15        total bonus available to an individual player.
   A tie event triggering the awarding of a bonus prize may correspond to one of:
          the Tie result;
          the Banker and Player hands having the same suit; and
20        the Banker and Player hands having cards of equal face value.
   In another aspect, the present invention provides a computer implemented gaming
   player management system adapted to determine an award event for awarding a
   bonus prize in a Baccarat game, the system comprising processor means operably
25 associated with a player tracking database and input means for recording player
   wagers placed on Banker, Player and Tie results and for recording actual Baccarat
   hand results, the processor means being configured to make a determination based
   on the following predetermined criteria being:
          a predefined rate at which a bonus prize is to be accumulated;
30        a record of the bonus prize amount corresponding to individual players, and;
          the occurrence of a tie event within a Baccarat hand result to trigger the
   awarding of the bonus prize to at least one player.

                                                 6
   The preferred system further comprises display means for displaying the predefined
   rate for the bonus prize wherein the predefined rate for the bonus prize comprises a
   percentage in the range of about 1% to about 10% of the amount a player has
   wagered on one of Player or Banker.
 5
   The record of the bonus prize amount corresponding to individual players may
   comprise one or a combination of:
           total bonus amount accumulated by an individual player;
           total bonus paid out to an individual player;
10         total bonus available to an individual player.
   In a preferred embodiment, the processor means is further configured to make a
   determination to pay a 'player commission' to individual players based on the
   following predetermined criteria being:
15             a predefined percentage of a player's total game turnover being greater or
   less than a bonus prize determined by the system adapted to determine an award
   event for awarding a bonus prize in a Baccarat game as described herein.
   In a first aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided a system of
20 awarding a bonus prize in a Baccarat game comprising the step of triggering the
   awarding of the bonus prize on the occurrence of a tie event.
   In the context of the present description, it is to be understood that a "tie event" is
   reference to a tie or a natural tie result between the Player and the Banker in which
25 the Player and the Banker hands have the same point count. A "tie event" may also
   include within the scope of this description, an outcome in which the Player and the
   Banker hands have the same suit or the same face card values. Accordingly, in one
   particular embodiment, the tie event corresponds to the Banker and Player hands
   being equal in point score value. In another embodiment, the tie event corresponds
30 to one or a combination of:
               the Banker and Player hands having the same suit;
               the Banker and Player hands having cards of equal face value.

                                               7
   Preferably, the bonus prize comprises a percentage of the amount a player has
   wagered on one of Player or Banker. The percentage may be in the range of about
   1% to about 10%.
 5 In a preferred embodiment, the method may further comprise the step of displaying
   the percentage at the table of play of Baccarat.
   In another aspect of embodiments described herein there is provided apparatus for
   controlling the play of a Baccarat game, comprising:
10            score determining means for collecting and recording the score of play at
   each hand in the game;
              bonus prize triggering means for awarding a bonus prize on the occurrence
   of a tie event determined by the score determining means.
15 In a preferred embodiment, the apparatus may further comprise bonus prize
   determining means having storage and processing means for determining a bonus
   prize amount to be awarded to a player wherein the determining means is adapted to
   store amounts wagered by players on the outcome of coups and process a
   percentage of the stored amounts wagered to be awarded as a predetermined bonus
20 prize. Preferably, the percentage of the stored amounts wagered is in the range of
   about 1% to about 10%.
   The apparatus may further comprise display means for displaying the percentage for
   one or more predetermined bonus prizes.
25
   As noted above, preferably, the tie event corresponds to the Banker and Player hands
   being equal in point score value. Alternatively, the tie event may correspond to one or
   a combination of:
              the Banker and Player hands having the same suit;
30            the Banker and Player hands having cards of equal face value.
   In a preferred embodiment there is provided apparatus adapted to award a bonus
   prize in a Baccarat game, said apparatus comprising:

                                               8
               processor means adapted to operate in accordance with a predetermined
   instruction set,
               said apparatus, in conjunction with said instruction set, being adapted to
   perform the method as disclosed herein.
 5
   In another preferred embodiment, there is provided a computer program product
   comprising:
               a computer usable medium having computer readable program code and
   computer readable system code embodied on said medium for awarding a bonus
10 prize in a Baccarat game within a data processing system, said computer program
   product comprising:
               computer readable code within said computer usable medium for displaying
   performing the method steps as disclosed herein.
15 Presently, bonus payments are made in the game of Baccarat for a point score result
   for either the Player or Banker of 8 or 9 or a natural (where a natural = two card total
   of 8 or 9).     The fundamental problem with this trigger for a bonus is that it is
   predicated on a game event which is 'card countable'. That is, there is the possibility
   of accurately predicting the occurrence of one of these bonus trigger events by way of
20 counting cards.
   In accordance with preferred embodiments, the solution offered is to award the bonus
   in the event of a "tie" result or a "natural tie" (also known as a stand-off). The tie
   results by their nature are not 'card countable', which is a primary advantage provided
25 by this invention.
   Other aspects and preferred forms are disclosed in the specification and/or defined in
   the appended claims, forming a part of the description of the invention.
30 In essence, embodiments of the present invention stem from the realization that has
   come from a counter-intuitive view of the game of Baccarat for game developers in as
   much as rather than analysing the game from the point of view of improving a house
   edge where most game developers may simply strive to formulate a new bonus

                                                 9
   scheme, this invention stemmed from analysing the game from the point of view of
   the participant and avoiding the necessity to take on board a new set of rules in order
   to play with a new bonus. With the view of what would be best for a participant in
   developing a new bonus, the effect on house edge was analysed rather than what
 5 normally would be to provide a bonus scheme driven by a specified house edge. This
   so-called bottom up analysis as opposed to the normal top down analysis in
   developing a bonus led to the realisation that triggering a bonus on a tie event,
   provides no detrimental effect on the player's experience but at the same time allows
   for an improvement for the house by eliminating bonus trigger events that are card
10 countable.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   Further disclosure, objects, advantages and           aspects of preferred  and other
15 embodiments of the present invention may be better understood by those skilled in
   the relevant art by reference to the following description of embodiments taken in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings, which are given by way of illustration
   only, and thus are not limitative of the disclosure herein, and in which:
              Figure 1 illustrates an example table layout for the game of Baccarat in
20 accordance with known art.
              Figure 2 is a flow chart illustrating a method of awarding a bonus for a
   Baccarat game in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;
              Figure 3 is a flow chart illustrating a method of awarding a bonus for a
   Baccarat game in accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present
25 invention;
              Figure 4 is a flow chart illustrating the operation of a gaming information
   system adapted to award a bonus in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the
   present invention.
30 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   In an exemplary form of Baccarat, as would be understood by the person skilled in the
   art, wagers may be made on one or a combination of the Player hand, the Banker

                                             10
   hand, the Tie and where offered by local or custom forms of the game, Player Run; a
   Banker Run, a Player/Banker Run, or a Tie Run. Various forms of side wager may be
   offered and these are considered to be well understood by the person skilled in the
   art.   Examples of side wagers may be found in a number of published patent
 5 specifications, such as, lapsed Australian Patent Application No 57194/96 (Bartlett)
   and, Australian Patent Application No 2004222759 (Shenli Ko).
   With reference to figure 1, the game of Baccarat may be played utilising the table
   layout as shown in figure 1 in accordance with the following description.
10
   Dealing the Game
   In a typical form of play provided to casino participants by the present applicant, a
   Baccarat game may be dealt using one of the following methods:
15
   (A)     The Dealer may deliver both the Player hand and the Banker hand to the
   highest wagerer on these hands. Initially if the player with the highest wager on either
   the Player or the Banker refuses to accept the cards for that hand, the Dealer may
   offer those cards to the next highest wagerer on that hand. In the event that two or
20 more players have made an equal highest wager on either the Player or the Banker
   the Dealer may first offer the cards to that player with the equal highest wager who
   occupies the lowest numbered seat. If that player refuses to accept the cards the
   Dealer may offer the cards anticlockwise to the next person with the highest equal
   wager. Markers denoting "Player" and "Banker" may be placed in front of the player
25 accepting the cards on the Player hand and the Banker hand respectively. In the
   event that no player accepts either the Player cards or the Banker cards, the Dealer
   may retain the cards. The players may handle only one set of cards, either the Player
   hand or the Banker hand at any one time. Where the Dealer is required to open
   either the Player hand or the Banker hand, a player acting as either the Player or the
30 Banker for the purposes of opening the cards may request to open both hands in turn
   either Player then Banker or Banker then Player. The Dealer must ensure that the
   hands are kept clearly separated.    A player who accepts the cards may authorise

                                             11
   another person seated at the table (whether or not that person has placed a wager) to
   open one or more of the cards.
   (B)     The Dealer will retain the dealing shoe and act as both the Player and the
 5 Banker for the purpose of dealing the cards.
   In this circumstance, the Dealer has control over the dealing of the cards without any
   input from players.
10 (C)     The dealing shoe may be offered to the seated player with the highest wager
   on either the Player or the Banker.
   In the event that two or more players have made an equal highest wager on either the
   Player or the Banker, the Dealer may first pass the cards to that player with the equal
15 highest wager who occupies the lowest numbered seat. Should all players decline
   the dealing shoe then the game may be dealt in accordance with rule (A), above or
   rule (B) above. The first player to accept the dealing shoe may act as the Player or
   Banker for the purpose only of dealing the cards and receiving and playing the
   appropriate hand/s.
20
   A player who accepts the dealing shoe may authorise another person seated at the
   table (whether or not that person has placed a wager) to deal the cards; and a player
   who accepts the dealing shoe may authorise another person seated at the table
   (whether or not that person has placed a wager) or the Dealer to open one or more of
25 the cards.
   The Dealer may place a marker denoting "Player" or "Banker" beside the dealing shoe
   to denote that those cards will be retained by the player controlling the shoe. The
   player holding the dealing shoe may draw the cards from the dealing shoe ensuring
30 that the cards remain in full view of the Dealer and Game Supervisor at all times.
   Under no circumstances must he/she allow the cards to leave the table.

                                               12
   When one hand is to be opened by a player other than the player holding the dealing
   shoe, the appropriate hand may be passed face-down to the Dealer who in turn may
   deliver the cards to the player opening the cards.
 5 When the cards have been turned over by the player/s or the Dealer, the initial Player
   and Banker hands may be placed in the appropriate area of the table layout. Any
   further cards drawn to either hand may be dealt by the player holding the shoe and
   exposed by the relevant player/s or the Dealer. Once the card/s are exposed, they
   may be placed on the appropriate area of the table layout.
10
   A player accepting the dealing shoe may retain control of the dealing shoe until:
   He/she elects to relinquish control; or His/her wager loses; or He/she is directed to
   relinquish control of the shoe by the Pit Boss.
15 Where the Dealer is required to open either the Player hand or the Banker hand, a
   player acting as either the Player or the Banker for the purposes of opening the cards
   may request to open both hands in turn either Player then Banker or Banker then
   Player. The Dealer must ensure that the hands are kept clearly separated.
20  The Initial Deal
   There may be two hands dealt, namely, the Player hand and the Banker hand. Prior
   to any cards being dealt from the dealing shoe, the Dealer:- (a) May announce that no
   more bets may be placed; and (b) May burn a card.
25 Four cards may be dealt from the dealing shoe face-down or face-up, at the discretion
   of the Game Supervisor. The first and third cards may respectively represent the first
   and second cards of the Player hand and the second and fourth cards dealt may
   respectively represent the first and second cards of the Banker hand.
30  The Play
   After the initial deal the Dealer may determine which hand will be exposed first, ie.
   Player then Banker or Banker then Player. The Dealer may announce the point count
   of each hand as it is displayed and if required, further cards may be dealt either face-

                                               13
   up or face-down in accordance with predetermined rules as discussed below under
   "The Table of Play". Under no circumstances may more than one additional card be
   dealt to either hand. The Dealer may announce the result of the hand. The order of
   merit of hands may be:
 5         (a)     A point count of nine;
           (b)     A point count of eight;
           (c)     A point count of seven; and
           (d)     So on down to a point count of Baccarat.
10 When the cutting card appears during the course of play the Dealer may: - (a)
   Remove the cutting card and place it on the table layout to the side; and (b) Complete
   any coup which is in progress; and (c) Indicate that the next coup is to be the last
   coup upon which wagers may be placed. (d) Following the completion of this coup,
   the Game Supervisor may direct that one or more Dummy Coups be dealt; and (e)
15 Following completion of the last coup of the shoe, the cards may be shuffled in
   accordance with predetermined rules or pre-shuffled cards introduced to the table.
   Where in the context of this description "coup" means a round of play comprising a
   Player hand and a Banker hand.
20 The Table of Play
   After the initial four cards have been dealt, if the point count of the Player hand or the
   Banker hand is 8 or 9, no more cards will be dealt to either hand. If the point count of
   the Banker hand is 0 to 7 inclusive, the Player hand may:- Draw; or Stand; in
25 accordance with the requirements of Table 1 below.

                                                14
   Table 1: Player Hand
      When the first two cards total:
      0-1-2-3-4-5                               Draws a card
      6-7                                      Stands
      8-9                                       Natural - No more cards are drawn
                                               to either hand.
 5 The Banker hand may:- Draw (D); or Stand (S); in accordance with the requirements
   of Table 2 below.
   Table 2: Banker Hand
10
          Banker                   Value of Third Card Drawn by Player Hand
          Point        No   0       1    2       3     4    5      6     7  8     9
          Count        Card
          0            D    D       D    D       D     D    D      D     D   D    D
          1            D    D       D    D       D     D    D      D     D   D    D
          2            D    D       D    D       D     D    D      D     D   D    D
          3            D    D       D    D       D     D    D      D     D  S     0
15        4            D    S       S    D       D     D    D      0     D  S     S
          5            D    S       S    S       S     D    D      D     D  S     S
          6            S    S       S    S       S    S     S      D     D  S     S
          7            S    S       S    S       S    S     S      S    S   S     S
          8            S    S       S    S       S    S     S      S    S   S     S
          9            S    5      S     S       S    S     S      s    S   S     S
20 Settlement
   The bets which may be placed in respect of a coup and the odds payable for them are
   formulated in accordance with predetermined criteria that may be prescribed under
   relevant guidelines or legislation. Examples of the odds paid out for game events are
25 published from time to time by casinos and would be well understood by persons
   skilled in the art.
   House Commission

                                                 15
   In addition to the house commission of 5% payable for a winning Banker hand, a
   house commission payable on a (or any) winning wager may be collected from a
   player at the time the winning payout is made, but for seated players only, it may be
   deferred to a later time. Deferred house commission may be settled at the completion
 5 of each shoe and collected prior to the commencement of the next shoe: (i) Unless a
   player requests an earlier settlement; or (ii) Where a player wishes to cease wagering
   before the end of a shoe; or (iii) At the discretion of casino management.
   The amount of house commission not collected prior to the time the winning payout is
10 made may be evidenced by placing a marker button indicating the amount of the
   house commission owed in the space provided with the number of the player owing
   such house commission.
   Bonus
15
   In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention, by prior
   arrangement programmed into a gaming information system, the casino operator may
   agree with an individual player(s) to provide him/her a bonus in the form of a
   percentage of the amount he/she has wagered on Player or Banker, when the result
20 of a coup is a tie event. The bonus may be provided as a direct payment to the player
   or, as illustrated below in reference to figure 4, the bonus may form part of a player
   commission provided to the player within a player tracking system.
   In such circumstances as the prior arrangement noted above, Player and Banker
25 wagers may be paid as follows:
   "      A winning wager placed on Banker when the result of a coup is a tie event,
          may be paid an amount between 1% and 10% of that wager, in accordance
          with predetermined agreement between casino and player.
   "      A winning wager placed on Player when the result of a coup is a tie event, may
30        be paid an amount between 1% and 10% of the wager, in accordance with
          predetermined agreement between casino and player.

                                                 16
   The agreed percentage may be displayed on the table limit sign and it is to be noted
   that the agreed percentages as detailed above are in accordance with a preferred
   embodiment. Accordingly, the agreed percentage payout may be varied as would be
   recognised by the person skilled in the art.
 5
   With reference to figure 2, as with the play of Baccarat described above, at the start of
   play, hands may be dealt in accordance with the rules of Baccarat. Once dealt, the
   Banker and Player hands are turned face up. If the outcomes of:
   1        Banker and Player hands each total five or fewer points; or
10 *        Player hand totals six or seven points; without
   *        A natural eight or nine for either Banker or Player occurring;
   then the game is continued as per the appropriate and in place Baccarat rules. If a
   natural event occurs bets are paid off according to any wagers placed on such an
   event.    If on continuing with the game the Banker and Player hands provide an
15 outcome where a tie event occurs, for example, they are equal in point value then on
   the proviso that wagers have been placed on this tie event occurring, the bets are
   rewarded at 8-1 and if there are wagers on Player and/or Banker the gaming system
   will record the bonus % payable on the system.           In accordance with the process
   shown in figure 2, the system may accumulate bonus payouts for these tie events on
20 subsequent games of Baccarat and at a predetermined point in time, the bonus may
   be paid out as a total value. Alternatively, as shown in figure 3, in the event of a tie
   event occurring as shown and wagers are placed on Banker and/or Player, the bonus
   for a tie bet may be paid out as it occurs.
25 A preferred implementation of embodiments of the present invention noted above is
   now described with reference to figure 4 in which the operation of a gaming
   information system adapted for awarding a bonus prize in a Baccarat game is
   illustrated.
30 The player tracking system of a gaming information system 400 has the facility to
   record the bets laid by individual players 41 and also record the baccarat hand results
   42.     The inputs 41 and 42 may be entered either manually or by automated
   arrangement 43.       With this input information, the system 400 may calculate each

                                               17
   player's pay out for each hand and accumulate the results. The automated input,
   calculation and accumulation steps are shown at 43 and 46 and, are conducted by
   any suitable network enabled computer 44, which may comprise a suitable processor
   such as for example an Inte|TM ATOMTM microprocessor configured in the system 400
 5 for card table application. The accumulated results may be stored in a player tracking
   database 47. The player tracking system also has facility to record within the player
   tracking database 47 the total bets placed by each player for each hand, and what
   wagers those bets were placed on (eg, player, banker, tie).
10 The player tracking system implemented by processor 44 may also accumulate total
   turnover for each player, and use this figure to determine the value of a player
   commission that the player has earned.             The player commission may be a
   conventional calculation of a percentage of total turnover to be provided as a total
   commission for payment to a player 49.
15
   With the benefit of processor means 44 incorporated in the gaming player
   management system 400 which is operably connected and/or associated with the
   player tracking system including its player tracking database as well as operably
   associated with input means for 41, 42 for recording the player wagers and also hand
20 results, the system of this preferred embodiment provides changes to a player
   tracking system to add the functional ability to:
   1.     Configure a rate at which a tie bet bonus should be accumulated, for example,
          as a percentage of turnover.
   2.      Record the total tie bet bonus accumulated by an individual player for a gaming
25        session.
   3.      Record the total tie bet bonus paid out to an individual for a gaming session.
   4.      Record the total tie bet bonus available to be paid out to an individual.
   5.      Determine whether total commission amount should be calculated using the
           program commission method 49 or the tie bet bonus method being the results
30        of the bonus value accumulated for the tie bonus 51.
   With respect to determining whether total player commission amount should be
   calculated using the program commission 49 or the tie bet bonus accumulated 51, the

                                                18
   processor means can determine a payout type by virtue of a decision, shown at 48,
   by comparing the traditional commission based on a predefined percentage of total
   player turnover with the bonus accumulated by tie events to pay the greater of these
   two as a player commission to an individual player. The payment of this player
 5 commission may also be recorded against the player in the player tracking database
   47 as shown at 52.
   While this invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments
   thereof, it will be understood that it is capable of further modification(s).         This
10 application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention
   following in general, the principles of the invention and including such departures from
   the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to
   which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features
   hereinbefore set forth.
15
   As the present invention may be embodied in several forms without departing from
   the spirit of the essential characteristics of the invention, it should be understood that
   the above described embodiments are not to limit the present invention unless
   otherwise specified, but rather should be construed broadly within the spirit and scope
20 of the invention as defined in the appended claims. The described embodiments are
   to be considered in all respects as illustrative only and not restrictive.
   It should be noted that where the terms "server", "secure server" or similar terms are
   used herein, a communication          device is described that may be          used in a
25 communication system, unless the context otherwise requires, and should not be
   construed to limit the present invention to any particular communication device type.
   Thus, a communication device may include, without limitation, a bridge, router,
   bridge-router (router), switch, node, or other communication device, which may or
   may not be secure.
30
   It should also be noted that where a flowchart is used herein to demonstrate various
   aspects of the invention, it should not be construed to limit the present invention to
   any particular logic flow or logic implementation.         The described logic may be

                                                19
   partitioned   into different logic blocks (e.g.,    programs,   modules, functions, or
   subroutines) without changing the overall results or otherwise departing from the true
   scope of the invention.       Often, logic elements may be added, modified, omitted,
   performed in a different order, or implemented using different logic constructs (e.g.,
 5 logic gates, looping primitives, conditional logic, and other logic constructs) without
   changing the overall results or otherwise departing from the true scope of the
   invention.
   Various embodiments of the invention may be embodied in many different forms,
10 including computer program logic for use with a processor (e.g., a microprocessor,
   microcontroller, digital signal processor, or general purpose computer), programmable
   logic for use with a programmable logic device (e.g., a Field Programmable Gate
   Array (FPGA) or other PLD), discrete components, integrated circuitry (e.g., an
   Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC)), or any other means including any
15 combination thereof.        In an exemplary embodiment       of the present invention,
   predominantly all of the communication between users and the server is implemented
   as a set of computer program instructions that is converted into a computer
   executable form, stored as such in a computer readable medium, and executed by a
   microprocessor under the control of an operating system.
20
   Computer program logic implementing all or part of the functionality where described
   herein may be embodied in various forms, including a source code form, a computer
   executable form, and various intermediate forms (e.g., forms generated by an
   assembler, compiler, linker, or locator).       Source code may include a series of
25 computer     program    instructions implemented     in any of various    programming
   languages (e.g., an object code, an assembly language, or a high-level language
   such as Fortran, C, C++, JAVA, or HTML) for use with various operating systems or
   operating environments.        The source code may define and use various data
   structures and communication messages. The source code may be in a computer
30 executable form (e.g., via an interpreter), or the source code may be converted (e.g.,
   via a translator, assembler, or compiler) into a computer executable form.

                                               20
   The computer program may be fixed in any form (e.g., source code form, computer
   executable form, or an intermediate form) either permanently or transitorily in a
   tangible storage medium, such as a semiconductor memory device (e.g, a RAM,
   ROM, PROM, EEPROM, or Flash-Programmable RAM), a magnetic memory device
 5 (e.g., a diskette or fixed disk), an optical memory device (e.g., a CD-ROM or DVD
   ROM), a PC card (e.g., PCMCIA card), or other memory device.             The computer
   program may be fixed in any form in a signal that is transmittable to a computer using
   any of various communication technologies, including, but in no way limited to, analog
   technologies, digital technologies, optical technologies, wireless technologies (e.g.,
10 Bluetooth),    networking   technologies, and    inter-networking  technologies.  The
   computer program may be distributed in any form as a removable storage medium
   with accompanying       printed or electronic documentation (e.g., shrink wrapped
   software), preloaded with a computer system (e.g., on system ROM or fixed disk), or
   distributed from a server or electronic bulletin board over the communication system
15 (e.g., the Internet or World Wide Web).
   Hardware logic (including programmable logic for use with a programmable logic
   device) implementing all or part of the functionality where described herein may be
   designed using traditional manual methods, or may be designed, captured, simulated,
20 or documented electronically using various tools, such as Computer Aided Design
   (CAD), a hardware description language (e.g., VHDL              or AHDL), or a PLD
   programming language (e.g., PALASM, ABEL, or CUPL).
   Programmable logic may be fixed either permanently or transitorily in a tangible
25 storage medium, such as a semiconductor memory device (e.g., a RAM, ROM,
   PROM, EEPROM, or Flash-Programmable RAM), a magnetic memory device (e.g., a
   diskette or fixed disk), an optical memory device (e.g., a CD-ROM or DVD-ROM), or
   other memory device.        The programmable logic may be fixed in a signal that is
   transmittable to a computer using any of various communication technologies,
30 including, but in no way limited to, analog technologies, digital technologies, optical
   technologies, wireless technologies (e.g., Bluetooth), networking technologies, and
   internetworking technologies.      The programmable logic may be distributed as a
   removable storage medium with accompanying printed or electronic documentation

                                                21
   (e.g., shrink wrapped software), preloaded with a computer system (e.g., on system
   ROM or fixed disk), or distributed from a server or electronic bulletin board over the
   communication system (e.g., the Internet or World Wide Web).
 5 The terms "comprising", "including", and variations thereof, when used in this
   specification, are taken to specify the presence of stated features, integers, steps or
   components but does not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other
   features, integers, steps, components or groups thereof.        Thus, unless the context
   clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the claims, the words
10 'comprise', 'comprising', 'includes', 'including' and the like are to be construed in an
   inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
   sense of "including, but not limited to".

                                             22
CLAIMS:
1.     A method of playing a game with predetermined rules using a plurality of
standard decks of playing cards, wherein at least two but no more than three playing
cards are dealt to a Banker hand, at least two but no more than three playing cards
are dealt to a Player hand, and a plurality of individual players wager on either (i) a
Banker result wherein the Banker hand has a score closer or equal to a
predetermined high value than the Player hand, (ii) a Player result wherein the Player
hand has a score closer or equal to a predetermined high value than the Banker
hand, or (iii) a Tie result wherein the Banker and Player hands have the same score,
the method including:
       recording player wagers placed on Banker, Player and Tie results;
       recording actual hand results; and
       making a bonus prize determination based on the predetermined criteria being:
                a predefined rate at which a bonus prize is to be accumulated;
                a record of the bonus prize amount corresponding to individual players,
       and;
                the occurrence of a tie event within a hand result to trigger the awarding
       of the bonus prize to at least one player.
2.     A method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the predefined rate for the bonus prize
comprises a percentage in the range of about 1% to about 10% of the amount a
player has wagered on one of the Player or Banker results.
3.     A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the record of the bonus prize
amount corresponding to individual players comprises one of:
       total bonus amount accumulated by an individual player;
       total bonus paid out to an individual player;
       total bonus available to an individual player.
4.     A method as claimed in any claim 1 wherein a tie event corresponds to one of:
       the Tie result;
       the Banker and Player hands having the same suit; and

                                         23
       the Banker and Player hands having cards of equal face value.
5.     Apparatus including automated apparatus for playing the game as an
electronic table game according to the method of any preceding claim.







