           NOVEL BIOCATALYST COMPOSITIONS AND PROCESSES FOR USE
                                    Abstract of the Disclosure
The microorganism-containing biocatalysts disclosed have a large population of the
microorganisms irreversibly retained in the interior of the biocatalysts. The biocatalysts possess
a surprisingly stable population of microorganisms and have an essential absence of debris
generation from metabolic activity of the microorganisms. The biocatalysts are composed of
highly hydrophilic polymer and have an internal, open, porous structure that promotes
community phenotypic changes.
                                                189

           NOVEL BIOCATALYST COMPOSITIONS AND PROCESSES FOR USE
Cross-reference to Related Applications
This application is a divisional of Australian patent application 2013274014, which is the
national phase entry in Australia of PCT international application PCT/US2013/046037
(published as W02013/188858).
[1]     Priority is claimed to United States Provisional Patent Applications Nos.:
        61/689,921, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,922, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,923, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,924, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,925, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,929, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,930, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,932, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,933, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,935, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,939, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,940, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,943, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,945, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/689,953, filed on June 15, 2012;
        61/849,725, filed on February 1, 2013;
        61/850,631, filed on February 20, 2013;
        61/851,467, filed on March 8, 2013; and
                                                  1

        61/852,451, filed on March 15, 2013,
        each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. A right is hereby
       reserved to have patentability determinations made on the basis of the applicable sections
        of Public Law 112-29.
Statement Regarding Federally Sponsored Research or Development
[2]    The use of biocatalysts for the continuous degradation of 1,4-dioxane in ultralow
        concentrations in water was first reduced to practice using Government support under
        Contract 1R43ESO22123-01, awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The
        Government has certain rights thereto.
Field of the Invention
[3]    This invention pertains to novel biocatalysts and their use.
Background
[41    Metabolic processes have long been proposed for anabolic and catabolic bioconversions.
       Microorganisms of various types have been proposed for these bioconversions and
        include bacteria and archaea, both of which are prokaryotes; fungi; and algae. Metabolic
       processes are used by nature, and some have been adapted to use by man for millennia
        for anabolic and catabolic bioconversions ranging from culturing yogurt and fermentation
        of sugars to produce alcohol to treatment of water to remove contaminants. Metabolic
       processes offer the potential for low energy consumption, high efficiency bioconversions
        in relatively inexpensive processing equipment and thus may be and are often viable
        alternatives to chemical synthesis and degradation methods. Often anabolic processes
        can use raw materials that are preferred from a renewable or environmental standpoint
        but are not desirable for chemical synthesis, e.g., the conversion of carbon dioxide to
       biofuels and other bioproducts. Catabolic bioconversions can degrade substrates and
       have long been used for waste water treatment. Considerable interests exist in improving
                                                  2

    metabolic processes for industrial use and expanding the variety of metabolic process
    alternatives to chemical syntheses and degradations.
[5] Numerous types of process techniques have been proposed for anabolic and catabolic
    bioconversions. These processes include the use of suspended microorganisms, i.e.,
    planktonic processes. Also, process techniques have been disclosed where the
    microorganisms are located on or within a solid support.
[6] Workers are faced with various challenges in improving metabolic processes and in
    providing metabolic processes that are sufficiently economically viable to be of
    commercial interest. Some problems may be inherent with the feedstock itself including
    the presence of toxins, phages, and adventitious competitive microorganisms. Other
    problems may arise from the microorganism to be used for the bioconversion such as low
    metabolic conversion rate, low population growth rate, automutation, significant
    consumption of substrate to support population growth, the need for inducers,
    co-metabolites, promoters and performance enhancing additives, and the lack of a
    microorganism that has the sought metabolic conversion. And yet further problems may
    arise from the process used for the bioconversion such as costs in recovering bioproducts
    from an aqueous fermentation broth. Especially with supported microorganisms,
    problems can arise from instability of the biofilms, including their physical degradation;
    overgrowth of the population of microorganisms causing suffocation; sloughing off of the
    microorganisms from the support; and susceptibility to competitive microorganisms.
    Additionally, metabolic processes are characterized as generating solid debris from dead
    or lysed cells, and the debris needs to be accommodated in the process to remove these
    solids. In some instances, the debris have value as feed supplements such as distillers
    grains from the manufacturing of ethanol, but in other metabolic processes such as for the
    treatment of municipal waste water, costs may have to be incurred to dispose of the
    debris in an environmentally acceptable manner. Genetic engineering, which has been
    proposed to overcome one or more of these problems, can itself be problematic.
[7] Microorganisms, including but not limited to, bacteria, archaea, fungi and algae, are
    capable of becoming attached or adhered to a surface. Studies have been conducted
    pertaining to the effect of a change from planktonic growth to growth of microorganisms
                                              3

     on surfaces, including the fonnation of biofilms on surfaces. A number of workers have
     investigated preventing or degrading biofilms in an animal or human body to enhance the
     efficacy of antibiotic treatments to cure the animal or human body.
[8]  Tuson, et al., in "Bacteria-surface Interactions", Soft Matter, Vol. 1, issue 608 (2013)
     citable as DOI: 10.1039/c3sm27705d, provide a review of work in the field of
     bacterial-surface interactions. The authors describe the processes involved in attaching a
     microorganism to a surface and recite that attachment to surfaces causes phenotypic
     switches in the cells and that the surface can provide benefits to the attached cells. The
     authors recite that organic matter can concentrate at horizontal surfaces stimulating
     growth of bacteria associated with the surface, and increasing substrate surface area
     provides more area on which nutrients can absorb, enabling cells to grow at nutrient
     concentrations that would normally be too low to support growth. The authors further
     state that in addition to surface attachment facilitating nutrient capture, some bacteria
     obtain necessary metabolites and co-factors directly from the surfaces to which they
     adhere.
[9]  Some of the observations reported in this article include that nucleating cell growth into
     communities on surfaces protect cells from predation and other environmental threats and
     facilitate the conservation of the genotype. The authors recite that where the
     microorganisms form biofilms, resistance to antibiotic treatment has been observed. This
     resistance has been attributed to one or more of the barrier function of the biofilm matrix;
     the presence of dormant persister cells and highly resistant colony variants, and
     upregulation of several biofilm-specific antibiotic resistance genes. One group of
     workers have postulated that some adhering cells not associated with biofilms have
     resistance to antibiotics due to primary mechanisms of reducing the net negative charge
     on bacterial cells and enhancing the stability of the membrane. Tuson, et al., points to a
     conclusion drawn in one article that the attachment of bacteria to surfaces alters their
     metabolic state and reduces antibiotic susceptibility, which is a common feature of
     bacteria during the stationary phase of cell growth.
[10] In respect of cell activities pertaining to association of bacteria with surfaces, the authors
     discuss that surface sensing is a precursor to swarming which is an important adaptive
                                                 4

     behavior in which contact between cells and surfaces programs morphological changes
     that facilitate cooperative behavior, rapid community growth, and migration of
     communities. The cells in bacterial communities such as swarms or biofilms interact
     with each other in several different ways. Bacteria are able to communicate through the
     use of small molecule chemical messengers in a process referred to as quorum sensing.
              "The dense packing of cells in bacterial communities facilitates and increase in
              the concentration of small molecules that transfer information between cells and
              trigger physiological changes. The shape of chemical gradients in close proximity
              to surfaces enhances the exchange of chemical information within biofilms and
              communities attached to surfaces."
[11] Cho, et al., in "Self-Organization in High-Density Bacterial Colonies: Efficient Crowd
     Control", PLOS Biology, Vol. 5, Issue 11, November 2007, pages 2614 to 2623, relate
     their findings that . coli in microchambers communicate to provide colony growth
     towards an escape from the confines of the microchambers without a potentially
     "stampede"-like blockage of the exit and to provide channels to facilitate nutrient
     transport into the colony.
[12] Tuson, et al., further describe the steps for the fonnation of an attachment of a cell to a
     surface. The initial attachment is reversible and involves hydrodynamic and electrostatic
     interactions and the second step of the attachment is irreversible and involves van der
     Waals interactions between the hydrophobic region of the outer cell wall and the surface.
     Irreversible attachment is facilitated by the production of extracellular polymeric
     substance.
              "Thermodynamics plays a central role in regulating the binding of bacteria to
              surfaces. Cells attach preferentially to hydrophilic materials (i.e., materials with a
              large surface energy) when the surface energy of the bacterium is larger than
              surface energy of the liquid in which they are suspended. The surface energy of
              bacteria is typically smaller than the surface energy of liquids in which the cells
              are suspended, and this mismatch causes cells to attach preferentially to
              hydrophobic materials (i.e., materials with lower surface energies). Bacteria are
              able to attach to a wide variety of different materials, including glass, aluminum,
                                                 5

             stainless steel, various organic polymers, and for needed materials such as
             Teflon TM."
[13] Tuson, et al., report that surface sensing triggers a variety of cellular changes. Many of
     the changes are morphological and facilitate attachment to surfaces. They state:
             "Interestingly, the physical properties of surfaces may influence cell morphology
             and community structure." ... "Cells adhere uniformly to hydrophobic surfaces,
             form microcolonies, and grow into tightly packed multi-layer biofilms. Fewer
             cells attach to hydrophilic surfaces, and changes in cell division lead to the
             formation of chains of cells that are >100 pm long. These chains become loosely
             entangled to form relatively unstructured and less densely packed biofilms."
[14] Tuson, et al., in their concluding remarks state:
             "Our understanding of the interaction of bacteria was surfaces is remarkably
             incomplete. This topic seems ideally suited for collaborations between
             microbiologist and materials scientists, chemists, and engineers as it is poised to
             benefit from multidisciplinary approaches that are formulated to penetrate into a
             range of areas, including: (1) identifying the properties of surfaces that are sensed
             by bacteria; (2) elucidating the molecular mechanisms bacteria used to send
             surfaces and their biochemical responses; and (3) determining how to modulate
             surface properties to provoke a desired cellular response, including changes in
             morphology, alterations in bioenergetics, or cell death."
[15] Many proposals exist for using a solid carrier or support for microorganisms to effect a
     plethora of anabolic and catabolic bioconversions; however, despite the potential process
     advantages provided by using a solid, commercial success has been limited to a relatively
     few applications. Proposals have been proffered for the microorganisms to be supported
     on the surface of a carrier or in pores of a carrier and for the microorganisms to be
     located within the carrier. See, for instance, Zhou, et al., "Recent Patents on Immobilized
     Microorganisms Technology and Its Engineering Application in Wastewater Treatment,
     Recent Patents on Engineering, 2008, 2, 28-35.
                                                6

[161 As a general rule, solid debris are generated as a result of the biological activity, e.g.,
     from the instability of the biofilm formed on the carrier and from the death and
     deterioration of cell mass. For instance, Sato, et al., in United States Patent 6,610,205,
     disclose processes for nitrifying and denitrifying organic waste water using a
     thermoplastic microbe carrier. The patentees assert that a single carrier can affect both
     bioconversions requiring aerobic and anaerobic conditions. The carrier, once formed, is
     contacted with activated sludge containing microorganisms. The patentees state that the
     nitrifying bacteria are "thickly grown" on the surface of the carrier and the denitrifying
     bacteria are "adsorbed onto the carrier and thereby are firmly immobilized thereon".
     Their figure 1 depicts an apparatus using the carrier and includes settling tank 9 to
     remove sludge. Accordingly, such processes appear to require a means to remove debris
     from the support or carrier.
[17] Several workers have formed an aqueous mixture of microorganisms and polymer as a
     solution, dispersion or emulsion. Some workers spray dried the mixture and others
     proposed crosslinking to obtain a solid structure containing microorganisms within the
     interior of the solid structure. The following discussion is provided as an illustration of
     proposals to form solid structures from an aqueous medium also containing
     microorganisms.
[18] Hino, et al., in United States Patent 4,148,689 disclose the use of microorganisms in a
     hydrophilic complex gel by dispersing microorganisms in a certain homogeneous sol and
     then gelling the mixture and treating it chemically or by drying to obtain a xerogel. The
     xerogel is said to possess desired strength and is composed of gelled water soluble
     polymer, such as natural polymers, polyvinyl alcohol, polyethylene glycol and
     polyethylene imine, and silica. The xerogels used in the examples appear to provide
     bioconversion, but at lesser activities than suspended cell fermentations. Most of the
     examples appear to demonstrate bioactivity over a short duration, e.g., less than 30 hours.
     Those examples that appear to report activity over longer durations also indicate
     deactivation over time. Indeed, the patentees contemplate that an advantage of their
     xerogel is that the polymer can be recovered and recycled upon deactivation. See column
     9, lines 66 et seq.
                                                7

[19] Fukui, et al., in United States Patent 4,195,129, disclose mixing microbial cells with
     photo-curable resin and irradiating the mixture to provide a cured product containing
     immobilized cells. The product, according to the examples, does not have the bioactivity
     of a free cell suspension. The patentees do not provide any data regarding the
     performance of the immobilized cells over a long duration.
[201 Yamada, et al., in United States Patent 4,546,081 disclose a process for continuous
     fermentation with yeast to produce alcohol. The yeast is immobilized in a thin film
     which is then positioned within a vessel for the fermentation. The patentees recite a
     number of different techniques for making the film containing the yeast. Although a
     process in which a mixture of yeast and polyvinyl alcohol is gelled by radiation and
     formed into the desired shape, no performance differences among the films prepared by
     the various techniques are specifically recited in the patent.
[211 Ishimura, et al., in United States Patent 4,727,030, have as an objective obtaining a
     molded, porous article containing microbial cells. They disclose a process for
     immobilizing enzymes or cells wherein the enzymes or cells are mixed with polyvinyl
     alcohol and activated carbon, and then the mixture is partially dried then molded and
     further dehydrated under specified conditions. The porous gel is said to have little
     expansion upon hydration.
[221 In the 1990's a process was developed in Japan called the Pegasus Process, see, for
     instance, Stowa Pagasus/Pegazur/Bio-tube Process Sheets, June 13, 2006, that uses
     organic gel pellets composed of a mixture of polyethylene glycol and nitrifying activated
     sludge. See also, United States Patent 4,791,061 which is in the same patent family as
     KR9312103 referenced in this document. The pellets are said to have a diameter of 3
     millimeters and a polyethylene glycol fraction of 15 percent and a microorganism
     fraction of 2 percent with a biofilm thickness of about 60 micrometers. The patent
     discloses preparing the pellets from a mixture containing an activated sludge and
     prepolymer and dropping the mixture into a water solution of polyvalent metal ion and
     persulfate to form particles with immobilized microorganisms. The process is asserted to
     reduce the loss in activity of the microorganisms in forming the pellets.
                                                8

[23] Chen, et al., in United States Patent 5,290,693 immobilizing microorganisms or enzymes
     on beads of polyvinyl alcohol. They form a mixture of polyvinyl alcohol and
     microorganisms and then conduct a two stage gelation and hardening step using boric
     acid and then phosphoric acid or phosphate. The patentees state that their process
     provides strong beads without being detrimental to the microorganisms or enzymes
     immobilized. The examples are instructive. Example 1, for instance, pertains to making
     and using beads for denitrification of water containing 100 ppm potassium nitrate. They
     state at column 5, lines 7 to 11:
              "On the seventh day, denitrification rate of the immobilized microorganisms
              reached 0.65 mg N03'-N/g gel/h (sic), which remained unchanged until the 30*
              day. The biochemical vitality of microorganisms remained stable."
     The solution used to make the beads contained about 25 g/L of denitrifying sludge
     microorganisms. This example appears to indicate that 7 days of growth of the
     population of microorganisms were required to achieve the activity, and that after 30
     days, the stable activity was lost. The comparative control reported in this example,
     which used boric acid only to gel and harden the PVA, provided a denitrification rate of
     0.55 mg NO3--N/g gel/h and became unstable after 15 days. Examples 2 and 3 report
     data for continuous operations that extended for 10 and 20 days respectively. Example 4
     pertains to the production of ethanol using Sacchramyces cerevisa (about 15 g/L in the
     mixture with the polyvinyl alcohol) and only 8 hours of use were reported with the beads
     containing the immobilized microorganisms being slightly inferior in ethanol production
     than unsupported yeast.
[24] Nagadomi, et al., in "Treatment of Aquarium Water by Denitrifying Photosynthetic
     Bacteria Using Immobilized Polyvinyl Alcohol Beads", Journal of Bioscience and
     Bioengineering, 87, 2, 189-193 (1999), confirm the observations of Chen, et al. They
     found that boric acid is deleterious to microorganisms. They also observed the growth of
     the population of microorganisms immobilized in alginate beads and in polyvinyl alcohol
     beads. The data reported by the authors did not extend much over 15 days of operation.
                                                9

[25] Willuwait, et al., in United States Patent 7,384,777 B2, immobilize bacteria in polymeric
     matrices. The matrices are used for the controlled release of the microorganisms. As
     explained at column 3, lines 63 to 67:
              "By means of the cleaning process, the microorganisms multiply until the holding
              capacity of the capsules/spheres or the gel has been reached and the wall bursts,
              i.e., the microorganisms are released."
[26] It is not surprising, therefore, that the large bulk of activities directed towards improving
     metabolic processes have focused on changing the genotype of the microorganism, e.g.,
     through genetic engineering. Genotypic alterations often come at significant expense and
     require substantial time to obtain the sought performance from a microorganism.
     Typically most genetically engineered microorganisms lack robustness, e.g., are slow
     growing and are competitively disadvantaged against invasive microorganisms and are
     subject to losing plasmids during scale up for quantities sufficient to fill
     commercial-scale bioreactors and during the bioconversion process itself. Additionally,
     genetically engineered microorganisms may have to be carefully contained so as not to
     escape to the environment, and disposal of debris from metabolic processes using
     genetically engineered microorganisms may be treated as hazardous waste.
Summary
[27] The microorganism-containing biocatalysts of this invention have a large population of
     the microorganisms irreversibly retained in the interior of the biocatalysts, and the
     biocatalysts possess a surprisingly stable population of microorganisms, and hence stable
     bioactivity, and an essential absence of debris generation from metabolic activity of the
     microorganisms, and the biocatalysts can exhibit these phenomenon over extended
     periods of time. These phenomena are contrary to conventional expectations are that
     microorganisms either escape from physically restricted regions or that the physically
     restricted region becomes clogged or over populated leading to loss of metabolic activity
     and ultimate death of the population of microorganisms.
                                                  10

[281 The microorganisms in the biocatalysts of this invention exhibit phenotypic alterations
     that, in combination with an internal, cavity-containing structure of the biocatalyst,
     provide highly advantageous biocatalysts including, but not limited to, a metabolic shift
     from growth of the microorganisms and their population to bioconversion activity
     (anabolic or catabolic); enhanced tolerance to toxins; enhanced ability to enter a
     substantial state of stasis even for extended periods of time; and enhanced ability to
     efficiently bioconvert substrate. These phenotypic changes significantly add to the fact
     that the microorganisms effecting the bioconversion are retained in the interior of the
     biocatalyst to provide advantageous metabolic processes, especially metabolic processes
     where the biocatalysts of this invention provide desirable bioconversion activity over
     extended periods of time, preferably at least about 3, preferably at least about 6, and
     frequently in excess of 12 or 24, months, and sometimes as much as 5 years or more.
[29] While not wishing to be limited to theory, it is believed that the ability of the biocatalysts
     of this invention to possess the stable population of microorganisms in its interior is due
     to phenotypic changes to the microorganisms that occur during making the biocatalysts.
     These phenotype changes are believed to be due to the confluence of three primary
     factors. First is the use of a high concentration of microorganisms to make the
     biocatalyst, e.g., at least about 60, preferably at least about 100, grams of cells per liter,
     such that communication can occur among the cells at the time of formation of the
     biocatalyst. All references herein to the mass of cells are to the mass of wet cells. The
     high concentration of cells is also preferred as upon the phenotypic change occurring,
     little, if any, net growth in the population of the microorganisms occurs in the biocatalyst.
     In some instances, the net growth in population of microorganisms can be up to three or
     four fold until the steady-state population occurs. However, in most instances, the
     population of microorganisms at steady-state is plus or minus about 50, frequently plus or
     minus about 30, percent of the concentration of the cells initially used in preparing the
     biocatalyst.
[30] The second major factor is that the biocatalyst when formed contains microorganisms in
     a plurality of interconnected major cavities of between about 5 and 100 microns in the
     smallest dimension. Preferably on a volumetric basis, at least about 20, and preferably at
     least about 50, percent of the interior structure of the biocatalyst (excluding the
                                                 11

     microorganisms) is composed of major cavities in this range. Although larger major
     cavities may be present, preferably less than about 25 percent of the interior of the solid
     structure is composed of these larger major cavities. Preferably the interconnected
     cavities in the biocatalyst are quiescent. It is believed that the high preponderance of the
     interconnected major cavities have a smallest dimension of between about 5 and 100
     microns enhances the ability of the microorganisms located in the cavities to
     communicate such that the microorganisms, as a community, undergo phenotypic
     alteration.
[311 The third major factor resides in the polymeric material component of the biocatalyst
     being hydrated and hydrophilic. It is believed that the microorganisms located in the
     interior of the biocatalyst as it is being made, especially those in the major cavities and
     smaller cavities, sense the hydrophilicity of the surface and this sensing of the
     environment also contributes to the phenotype change. The polymeric material is highly
     hydrated but yet contains sufficient hydrophobicity that the polymeric material in the
     biocatalyst is not dissolved or dispersed in water under the anticipated conditions of use.
     The hydrophilicity and the hydrophobicity of the polymer are such that the
     microorganisms become substantially irreversibly retained in the interior of the
     biocatalyst. As the retention of the microorganisms in the biocatalyst is due to a sensing
     by the microorganisms and their response, this irreversibly retention can be described as a
     metabolic retention. The biocatalysts can be characterized by having a Hydration
     Expansion Volume (HEV) of at least about 1,000, preferably at least about 5,000, and
     most often at least about 10,000. The Hydration Expansion Volume is indicative of the
     hydrophilicity of the polymeric material, and the higher the HEV, the greater is the
     hydrophilicity of the polymeric material.
[32] Accordingly, in a first aspect, the invention provides a biocatalyst comprising:
     a solid structure of hydrated hydrophilic polymer defining an interior structure having a
     plurality of interconnected major cavities having a smallest dimension of between about
     5 and 100 microns and an Hydration Expansion Volume (HEV), which is calculated in
     volume percent, of at least about 1000 and
                                                 12

        a population of microorganisms substantially irreversibly retained in the interior
        structure, said population of microorganisms being in a concentration of at least about
        60 grams per liter based upon the volume defined by the exterior of the solid structure
        when fully hydrated,
        wherein the microorganisms maintain their population substantially stable.
[32a]   In a second aspect, the invention provides a method for making a biocatalyst of the
invention, the method comprising:
    a.  forming liquid dispersion of solubilized precursor for hydrophilic polymer and
        microorganisms for said biocatalyst wherein the concentration of microorganisms in the
        liquid dispersion is at least about 60 grams per liter;
    b. subjecting said dispersion to solidification conditions to forn a solid structure of the
        hydrophilic polymer wherein the solid structure has an interior structure having a
        plurality of interconnected major cavities containing said microorganisms, said major
        cavities having a smallest dimension of between about 5 and 100 microns and wherein
        the solid structure has an HEV of at least about 1000; and
    c. maintaining the solid structure containing microorganisms under conditions that do not
        adversely affect the population of said microorganisms in the interior of the solid
        structure for a time sufficient to enable the microorganisms to undergo a phenotypic
        alteration to maintain their population substantially stable and to become substantially
        irreversibly retained in the interior of the solid structure.
[32b]   In a third aspect, the invention provides a metabolic process comprising subjecting the
biocatalyst of the invention to metabolic conditions including the presence of substrate to
bioconvert said substrate to bioproduct.
[32c]   In a fourth aspect, the invention provides a process for reducing the concentration of of
ultra-low contaminants in a water stream comprising:
    a.      continuously passing said water stream to a bioreactor, said bioreactor being
            maintained at metabolic conditions including the presence of a biocatalyst of the
            invention comprising microorganisms for bioconverting said ultra-low contaminants;
                                                    13

    b.     contacting said water stream with said biocatalyst for a time sufficient to reduce the
           concentration of said ultra-low contaminants; and
    c.     withdrawing from said bioreactor a treated water stream having a reduced
           concentration of said ultra-low contaminants.
[32d]  In a fifth aspect, the invention provides a process for catabolizing dissolved organic
carbon and ammonium cation in a wastewater stream comprising:
    a.     continuously passing said water stream to a bioreactor, said bioreactor being
           maintained at metabolic conditions including the presence of a biocatalyst of the
           invention comprising microorganisms for bioconverting said ultra-low contaminants;
    b.     contacting in said bioreactor said wastewater stream with said biocatalyst in the
           presence of oxygen for a time sufficient to provide an oxidized effluent containing
           less than about 5 milligrams of ammonium cation and having a biochemical oxygen
           demand (BOD) of less than about 10 milligrams per liter,
    wherein substantially no solids pass from the biocatalyst to the oxidized effluent.
[32e]  In a sixth aspect, the invention provides a process for the biological reduction of soluble
phosphate in water comprising:
    a.     contacting said water in a bioreactor with a biocatalyst of the invention comprising
           phosphate accumulating microorganisms under phosphate accumulating conditions
           for a time sufficient to reduce the concentration of phosphate in said water and
           provide a biocatalyst comprising phosphate laden microorganism wherein said
           phosphate accumulating conditions comprise the presence of polyhydroxyalkanoate
           within said microorganisms and the presence of aerobic or anoxic conditions in the
           water:
    b.     subjecting said biocatalyst comprising phosphate laden microorganism to anaerobic
           conditions in an aqueous medium sufficient to release phosphate from said
           microorganisms into said aqueous medium to provide a phosphate-rich aqueous
           medium; and
    c.     separating said biocatalyst from the phosphate-rich aqueous medium for use and step
           (a).
                                                 14

[32f]   In a seventh aspect, the invention provides a process for biodegrading ammonium to
nitrogen in a feed water containing ammonium and oxygen using an N/D microorganism
comprising contacting under metabolic conditions the water with a biocatalyst of the invention
having said microorganism irreversibly retained therein for a time sufficient to provide a treated
water having a concentration of ammonium less than about 50 percent of that in wherein the
nitrate concentration of the feed water and a concentration of nitrate ion less than about 1
milligram per liter.
[32g]    In an eighth aspect, the invention provides a process for the bioconversion of a plurality
of substrates using a biocatalyst comprising substantially a single strain of microorganism under
metabolic conditions for a time sufficient to bioconvert said substrates to bioproduct, the
improvement comprising using a biocatalyst of the invention containing therein said
microorganism.
[32h]   In an ninth aspect, the invention provides a process for reducing the concentration of
nitrate anion or perchlorate anion or both when present in water comprising contacting the water
with a biocatalyst of the invention having therein a strain of microorganism for reducing said
anions under metabolic conditions and for a time sufficient to bioconvert such anion.
[32i]   In a tenth aspect, the invention provides a process for treating water containing at least
one soluble compound of metal or semi-metal comprising:
     a.      continuously introducing said water into a reaction zone containing a biocatalyst of
             the invention comprising microorganism for reducing said soluble compound;
     b.      contacting the water with said biocatalyst for a time sufficient to reduce the
             concentration of said at least one soluble compound in the water;
     c.      maintaining said biocatalyst under metabolic conditions sufficient to metabolically
             reduce the oxidation state of the metal or semi-metal to form elemental metal or
             semi-metal or precipitated compound thereof; and
     d.      withdrawing water having a reduced concentration of said at least one soluble
             compound from the bioreaction zone.
[32j]   In an eleventh aspect, the invention provides a process to reduce the concentration of
1,4-dioxane in a water stream comprising:
                                                   15

      a.     continuously passing said water stream to a bioreactor, said bioreactor being
              maintained at metabolic conditions including aerobic conditions and the presence of
              a biocatalyst of the invention comprising microorganisms for degrading 1,4-dioxane
              metabolically;
      b.     contacting said water stream with said biocatalyst for a time sufficient to reduce the
              concentration of said 1,4-dioxane in the water stream; and
      c.     withdrawing from said bioreactor a treated water stream having a reduced
              concentration of 1,4-dioxane.
[32k]    In a twelfth aspect, the invention provides a process for the bioconversion of sugar and
optionally carbon dioxide to succinic acid comprising:
      a.     contacting an aqueous medium with a biocatalyst of the invention comprising
              succinic acid-producing microorganism under metabolic conditions including
              temperature and the presence of sugar and other nutrients for the microorganism for a
              time sufficient to produce succinate anion and provide a succinate anion-containing
              aqueous medium;
      b.     removing at least a portion of said succinate anion-containing aqueous medium and
              said biocatalyst;
      c.     reusing in step (a) said biocatalyst from which at least a portion of said succinate
              anion-containing aqueous medium has been removed; and
      d.     recovering succinate anion from said succinate anion-containing aqueous medium.
[321]    In a thirteenth aspect, the invention provides a process for the bioconversion of carbon
dioxide to bioproducts comprising:
    a.       maintaining the biocatalyst of the invention comprising a species of Botryococcus in
             an aqueous medium, said aqueous medium being at metabolic conditions including
             temperature and the presence of nutrients for the microalgae;
    b.       contacting he aqueous medium with carbon dioxide for the bioconversion wherein the
             microalgae secretes bioproduct;
                                                    16

    c.       irradiating the aqueous medium with light at a frequency and intensity sufficient for
             the microalgae to photosynthesize carbon dioxide to bioproduct; and
    d.       removing bioproduct from the aqueous medium.
[32m] In a fourteenth aspect, the invention provides a process for bioconverting substrate
contained in a gas phase to bioproduct comprising:
    a.       continuously contacting the gas phase with a biocatalyst of the invention, said
             contacting being at a temperature suitable for the metabolic bioconversion and for a
             time sufficient to effect said bioconversion of at least a portion of the substrate to
             bioproduct,;
    b.       cycling at least a portion of the biocatalyst of step (a) to at least one immersion step in
             an aqueous medium for a time sufficient to substantially fully hydrate the biocatalyst;
    c.       separating the biocatalyst and aqueous medium of the at least one immersion step;
             and
    d.       using at least a portion of the separated biocatalyst for step (a).
[32n]   In a fifteenth aspect, the invention provides a process for reducing fouling by aquatic
macroorganisms comprising contacting water that comes into contact with the aquatic
macroorganisms with a biocatalyst of the invention comprising microorganisms that are capable
of catabolic conversion of dissolved, metabolizable organic carbon in the water for a time
sufficient to provide a treated water having a concentration of metabolizable organic carbon at a
level where survival of macroorganisms is inhibited.
[320]   In a sixteenth aspect, the invention provides a process for desalinating water comprising
(a) withdrawing a saline water from a water source, said saline water comprising suspended
mollusks to provide a withdrawn water stream, and (b) subjecting the withdrawn water stream to
desalination conditions to provide a desalinated water stream and a salt-containing reject stream,
the improvement comprising contacting the withdrawn water stream with a biocatalyst of the
invention comprising microorganisms capable of catabolic conversion of organic carbon in the
water for a time sufficient to reduce the concentration of organic carbon to a level where survival
of the mollusks is inhibited.
                                                    17

[3 2 p] In a seventeenth aspect, the invention provides an apparatus for for the desalination of
saline water comprising:
     a.     at least one raw water inlet conduit adapted to direct saline water into the apparatus;
     b.     at least one bioreactor in flow communication with at least one raw water inlet
            conduit and adapted to receive said saline water, said bioreactor comprising
            biocatalyst of the invention containing microorganisms capable of catabolic
            conversion of organic carbon in the water;
     c.     at least one desalination unit; and
     d.     at least one effluent conduit adapted to direct water from the bioreactor to the
            desalination unit.
[32q]   In an eighteenth aspect, the invention provides a process for bioconverting a substrate
contained in an aqueous medium to bioproduct under bioconversion conditions including the
presence of microorganisms for said bioconversion, wherein an antimicrobial agent is provided
to the aqueous medium in an amount sufficient to control contaminating microorganisms, the
improvement comprising attenuating the effect of the antimicrobial agent on said
microorganisms for said bioconversion by using a biocatalyst of the invention comprising said
microorganisms for said bioconversion.
[32r]   In a nineteenth aspect, the invention provides a bio-detection device comprising a
biocatalyst of the invention.
[32s]   In a twentieth aspect, the invention provides an anti-fouling coating comprising a
biocatalyst of the invention.
[32t]   In a twenty first aspect, the invention provides a biological fuel cell comprising a
biocatalyst of the invention.
[32u]   In a twenty second aspect, the invention provides a filter comprising a biocatalyst of the
invention.
[32v]   In a twenty third aspect, the invention provides a process for for treating wastewater
containing organic compound comprising:
                                                  18

    a.     contacting under thermophilic conditions said wastewater with a biocatalyst of the
           invention comprising thermophilic microorganisms suitable for the bioconversion of
           organic compounds to methane for a time sufficient to reduce the concentration of
           organic compound to provide a treated water and a biogas,
    b.     separating the biogas from the wastewater and
    c.     separating the treated water from the biocatalyst.
[32w] In a twenty fourth aspect, the invention provides a continuous process for the
bioconversion of substrate to bioproduct using a microorganism capable of such bioconversion
wherein the bioproduct is toxic to the microorganism comprising:
    a.     continuously supplying substrate and aqueous medium to at least one first bioreactor
           containing aqueous medium, said at least one first bioreactor having therein a
           biocatalyst of the invention comprising said microorganism;
    b.     maintaining said at least one first bioreactor under metabolic conditions and
           continuously withdrawing a first reactor effluent from said at least one first bioreactor
           at a rate sufficient to maintain steady-state conditions and provide a hydraulic
           residence time sufficient to bioconvert a portion of the substrate, said a first
           bioreactor effluent containing unconsumed substrate and bioproduct, wherein the
           bioconversion activity to said bioproduct in said at least one first bioreactor is at a
           first rate;
    c.     continuously supplying the withdrawn first bioreactor effluent to at least one
           subsequent bioreactor containing aqueous medium, said at least one subsequent
           bioreactor having therein a biocatalyst of the invention comprising said
           microorganism;
    d.     maintaining said at least one subsequent bioreactor under metabolic conditions and
           continuously withdrawing a subsequent bioreactor effluent from said at least one
           subsequent bioreactor at a rate sufficient to maintain steady-state conditions and
           provide a hydraulic residence time sufficient to bioconvert at least a portion of the
           substrate, said a subsequent bioreactor effluent containing bioproduct, wherein the
                                                  19

             bioconversion activity to said bioproduct in said at least one subsequent bioreactor is
             at a second rate which is lower than the first rate;
     e.      continuously separating a bioproduct-rich stream from said withdrawn subsequent
             bioreactor effluent for product recovery and provide a residual aqueous stream; and
     f.      continuously recycling at least a portion of the residual aqueous stream to at least one
             subsequent bioreactor.
[32x]   In a twenty fifth aspect, the invention provides a process for bioconverting substrate to
butanol comprising:
     a.      contacting an aqueous medium with a biocatalyst of the invention, said biocatalyst
             comprising microorganisms capable of bioconverting said substrate to butanol,
             wherein said aqueous medium is maintained under metabolic conditions including the
            presence of nutrients for said microorganisms and contains said substrate;
     b.      maintaining the contact between the aqueous medium and biocatalyst for a time
             sufficient to bioconvert at least a portion of said substrate to butanol; and
     c.      recovering butanol from said aqueous medium.
[3 2 y] Also described is a biocatalyst composition comprising:
        a solid structure of hydrated hydrophilic polymer defining an interior structure having a
        plurality of interconnected major cavities having a smallest dimension of between about 5
        and 100 microns and an HEV of at least about 1000, preferably at least about 5000, and
        a population of microorganisms substantially irreversibly retained in the interior
        structure, said microorganisms being in a concentration of at least about 60 grams per
        liter based upon the volume defined by the exterior of the solid structure when fully
        hydrated,
        wherein the microorganisms maintain their population substantially stable.
[331    Preferably the hydrophilic polymer also forms a skin on the exterior of the biocatalyst
        composition. Although the microorganisms have been found to become substantially
        irreversibly retained in the interior of the biocatalyst, generally the case is that the
        microorganisms are not significantly, if at all, in direct contact with the polymer although
                                                    20

     they can be in contact through fibrils, e.g., of extracellular polymeric substance, or
     strands of polymer. It is believed that the high hydrophilicity of the polymer reduces the
     ability of the microorganisms to adhere to the exterior surfaces of the biocatalyst under
     conditions of physical stress such as the flow of fluid over the exterior of the biocatalyst.
[34] Also described are methods for making biocatalyst compositions comprising:
              a.       forming a liquid dispersion, preferably an aqueous dispersion, of
              solubilized precursor for hydrophilic polymer and microorganisms for said
             biocatalyst wherein the concentration of microorganisms in the liquid dispersion
              is at least about 60, preferably at least about 100, grams per liter;
             b.        subjecting said dispersion to solidification conditions to form a solid
              structure of the hydrophilic polymer wherein the solid structure has an interior
              structure having a plurality of interconnected major cavities containing said
             microorganisms, said major cavities having a smallest dimension of between
              about 5 and 100 microns and wherein the solid structure has an HEV of at least
              about 1000, preferably at least about 5000, said solidification conditions not
             unduly adversely affecting the population of said microorganisms; and
              c.       maintaining the solid structure containing microorganisms under
              conditions that do not adversely affect the population of said microorganisms in
             the interior of the solid structure for a time sufficient to enable the
             microorganisms to undergo a phenotypic alteration to maintain their population
              substantially stable and to become substantially irreversibly retained in the
              interior of the solid structure.
[35] The solidification conditions may, in some instances, include the presence of a
     cross-linking agent, and the precursor is a solubilized prepolymer. Alternatively, the
     solidification conditions may comprise a reduction in temperature of the liquid dispersion
     such that polymer becomes solidified to form the solid structure. Often, the liquid
     dispersion not encompassed within the solid structure formed in step (b) is separated
     during or prior to step (c).
                                                 21

[361   Also described are metabolic processes in which the biocatalysts described herein are
       subjected to metabolic conditions including the presence of substrate to bioconvert said
       substrate to bioproduct. The metabolic processes may be anabolic or catabolic. In the
       preferred processes, the microorganisms evidence a metabolic shift as compared to
       planktonic metabolism under substantially the same metabolic conditions.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[37]   Figure 1 is an SEM image of a portion of a cross-section of a biocatalyst in accordance
       with this invention.
[38]   Figure 2 is an SEM image of a portion of a cross-section of another biocatalyst in
       accordance with this invention.
[39]   Figure 3 is a schematic depiction of a photo-bioreactor using biocatalysts in accordance
       with this invention.
[40]   Figure 4 is a schematic depiction of an apparatus suitable for treating municipal
       wastewater using the biocatalysts of this invention.
[41]   Figure 5is a schematic depiction of a bioreactor used for the nitrification of wastewater
       which also contains a zone for collecting solid debris for hydrolysis in the treatment of
       wastewater.
[42]   Figure 6 is a schematic depiction of an apparatus using five fluidized bioreactor
       assemblies containing biocatalysts of this invention suitable for removing phosphate
       anion from water.
[43]   Figure 7 is a schematic depiction of a bioreactor assembly contained in the apparatus
       illustrated in Figure 6.
[44]   Figure 8 depicts the sequencing of the modes of operation of each bioreactor assembly
       contained in the apparatus illustrated in Figure 6.
[45]   Figure 9 is a schematic depiction of an apparatus containing biocatalysts of this invention
       which is suitable for treating water to minimize macroorganism growth and which
       contains an optional, self-cleaning water supply system.
                                                 22

[461   Figure 10 is a schematic depiction of an apparatus suitable for using biocatalysts of this
        invention for making succinic acid, which apparatus uses sequential reactors.
[47]   Figure 11 is a schematic depiction of another apparatus suitable for making succinic acid
       wherein reactors are cycled from PEP generation to succinate anion generation using
        carbon dioxide.
[48]   Figure 12 is a schematic depiction of an apparatus for making butanol in which the
       butanol is phase separated for recovery.
Detailed Description
[491   All patents, published patent applications and articles referenced in this detailed
        description are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.
       Definitions
[501   As used herein, the following terms have the meanings set forth below unless otherwise
        stated or clear from the context of their use.
[511   The use of the terms "a" and "an" is intended to include one or more of the element
        described. Lists of exemplary elements are intended to include combinations of one or
       more of the element described. The term "may" as used herein means that the use of the
        element is optional and is not intended to provide any implication regarding operability.
[52]    [51a]    The term "comprising" as used in this specification and claims means "consisting
        at least in part of'. When interpreting statements in this specification, and claims which
        include the term "comprising", it is to be understood that other features that are additional
       to the features prefaced by this term in each statement or claim may also be
       present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprised" are to be interpreted in
        similar manner.Adhering to the solid structure of the biocatalyst means that the
       microorganisms are located in cavities in the interior of the biocatalyst and are
        substantially irreversibly retained therein although extraordinary conditions and
       treatments (i.e., not normal bioconversion conditions for bioconversion using the
       microorganisms) might be able in some instances to cause the microorganism to exit the
        biocatalyst. Adhering includes surface attachment to the polymer forming the walls of
                                                  23

     the porous matrix as well as where the retained microorganisms are proximate to a
     polymeric surface, e.g., within about 10 or 20 microns, but not directly contacting the
     surface. Adhering thus includes physical and electrostatic adherence. In some instances,
     the polymer used to make the biocatalyst may become embedded in the extracellular
     polymeric substance around a cell or even in or on the cell wall of the microorganism.
[531 Ammonium cation includes ammonium cation and dissolved ammonia. One test for
     determining ammonium cation concentration is the salicylate method test N tube, Hach
     Method 10031, DOC3 16.53.01079, 7' edition.
[54] BTT Test is a batch toxicity tolerance test. The BTT Test compares the tolerance of a
     free suspension of the microorganism to a toxin in an aqueous medium under metabolic
     conditions with the tolerance of the same microorganism but provided in a substantially
     the same aqueous medium under substantially the same metabolic conditions but in
     porous matrices to provide substantially the same starting cell density. The subject toxin
     is added to the aqueous medium at a concentration such that the bioconversion of the
     substrate after 24 hours is approximately 50 percent of that in the absence of the toxin (or
     in the case of a substrate that can be toxic, a concentration having substantially no
     adverse effect on the microorganism). It is not essential that the bioconversion be
     precisely 50 percent less, but it should be in the range of between about 35 and 65 percent
     of that in the absence of the toxin. The same concentration of the toxin is added to the
     aqueous medium containing the microorganisms in the porous matrices and the
     bioconversion of the substrate after 24 hours is determined. It is understood that the
     metabolic conditions may, in some instances, affect how much of an effect the toxin has
     on the microorganism. In such instances, the metabolic conditions should be selected to
     be generally midrange of those suitable for the bioconversion. Also, it is understood that
     the degree of improvement provided by this invention can vary with different toxins.
     Accordingly, the toxin used should be the toxin at issue for the specific metabolic
     process. For instance, if the process is to make isobutanol as the bioproduct, the toxin
     used should be contained in the aqueous medium for the bioconversion and should not be
     a toxin such as sodium hypochlorite which is not expected to be in the medium. For
     phage as toxins, the toxin added may be infected cells.
                                               24

[551 Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) is the amount of oxygen required for metabolic
     conversion of organic carbon in water to carbon dioxide and is an indication of the
     organic compounds available for food. BOD is reported as milligrams per liter. BOD
     can be determined by Standard Method 5210B, revision 11/16/1999, as published by the
     U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
[561 Bioconversion activity is the rate of consumption of substrate per hour per gram of
     microorganism. Where an increase or decrease in bioconversion activity is referenced
     herein, such increase or decrease is ascertained under similar bioconversion conditions
     including concentration of substrate and product in the aqueous medium. Bioconversion
     activity to bioproduct is the rate of production of the bioproduct per hour per gram of
     microorganism.
[57] Biofilm means an aggregate of microorganisms embedded within an extracellular
     polymeric substance (EPS) generally composed of polysaccharides, and may contain
     other components such as one or more of proteins, extracellular DNA and the polymer
     used to make the biocatalyst. The thickness of a biofilm is determined by the size of the
     aggregate contained within a continuous EPS structure, but a continuous EPS structure
     does not include fibrils that may extend between separated biofilms. In some instances,
     the biofilm extends in a random, three dimensional manner, and the thickness is
     determined as the maximum, straight line distance between the distal ends. A thin
     biofilm is a biofilm which does not exceed about 10 microns in any given direction.
[58] Bioproduct means a product of a bioconversion which may be an anabolic product or a
     catabolic product and includes, but is not limited to, primary and secondary metabolites.
[59] Contaminating microorganisms are microorganisms that compete with the
     microorganisms for the bioconversion of substrate and may be adventitious or from an
     up-stream bioconversion process. With reference to the biocatalysts described herein,
     contaminating microorganisms also include those that can foul the surface of the
     biocatalyst even though they may not compete for substrate.
[60] Chemical oxygen demand (COD) is the amount of oxygen required to convert organic
     carbon in water to carbon dioxide and thus is an indication of the organic compound
                                               25

     content of the water. COD is reported as milligrams per liter. One procedure for
     determining COD is Hach Method 8000, February 2009, Ninth Edition.
[611 A state of essential stasis means that a microorganism population has undergone a
     substantial cessation of all metabolic bioconversion activity but can be revived. The
     existence of an essential stasis condition can be ascertained by measuring bioconversion
     activity. The essential stasis condition may be aerobic, anoxic or anaerobic which may or
     may not be the same as that of normal operating conditions for the microorganism.
     Where stasis is sought, the temperature is typically in the range of about 00 C to 25'C,
     say, 4'C to 15'C which may be different from the temperatures used at normal operating
     conditions.
[62] An exo-network is a community of spaced-apart microorganisms that can be in the form
     of individual cells or biofilms that are interconnected by extracellular polymeric
     substance in the form of strands. The spacing between the microorganisms or biofilms in
     the exo-network is sufficient to enable the passage of nutrients and substrates there
     between and is often at least about 0.25, say, at least about 0.5, micron and may be as
     large as 5 or 10 microns or more.
[63] Exterior skin is an exterior layer of polymer on the biocatalyst that is less open than the
     major channels in the interior structure of the biocatalyst. A biocatalyst may or may not
     have a skin. Where a skin is present, it may or may not have surface pores. Where no
     surface pores are present, fluids diffuse through the skin. Where pores are present, they
     often have an average diameter of between about I and 10 microns.
[64] Fully hydrated means that a biocatalyst is immersed in water at 25'C until no further
     expansion of the superficial volume of the biocatalyst is perceived.
[65] The "Hydration Expansion Volume" (HEV) for a biocatalyst is determined by hydrating
     the biocatalyst in water at 25'C until the volume of the biocatalyst has stabilized and
     measuring the superficial volume of the biocatalyst (V,), removing the biocatalyst from
     water and removing excess water from the exterior, but without drying, and immersing
     the biocatalyst in ethanol at 25'C for a time sufficient that the volume of the biocatalyst
     has stabilized and then measuring the superficial volume of the biocatalyst (Vs).
         The HEV in volume percent is calculated as the amount of [V, /Vs] x 100%.
                                                26

     To assure dehydration with the ethanol, either a large volume ratio of ethanol to
     biocatalyst is used or successive immersions of the biocatalyst in fresh ethanol are used.
     The ethanol is initially dehydrated ethanol.
[66] Irreversibly retained and substantially irreversibly retained mean that the microorganisms
     are adhering to polymeric structures defining open, porous cavities. Irreversibly retained
     microorganisms do not include microorganisms located on the exterior surface of a
     biocatalyst. A microorganisms is irreversibly retained even if the biocatalyst has exterior
     pores of sufficient size to permit egress of the microorganisms.
[67] Highly hydrophilic polymers are polymers to which water is attracted, i.e., are
     hydroscopic. Often the polymers exhibit, when cast as a film, a water contact angle of
     less than about 600, and sometimes less than about 450, and in some instances less than
     about 100, as measured by the sessile drop method using a 5 microliter drop of pure
     distilled water.
[68] Highly hydrated means that the volume of the biocatalyst (excluding the volume of the
     microorganisms) is at least about 90 percent water.
[69] An isolated enzyme is an enzyme removed from a cell and may or may not be in a
     mixture with other metabolically active or inactive materials.
[70] Macroorganisms include, but are not limited to, mollusks, such as bivalve mollusks
     including mussels and clams; barnacles; bryozoan; polychette; and macroalgae.
[71] A matrix is an open, porous, polymeric structure and is an article of manufacture having
     an interconnected plurality of channels or cavities (herein "major cavities") defined by
     polymeric structures, said cavities being between about 5 and 100 microns in the smallest
     dimension (excluding any microorganisms contained therein), wherein fluid can enter
     and exit the major cavities from and to the exterior of the matrix. The porous matrix may
     contain larger and smaller channels or cavities than the major cavities, and may contain
     channels and cavities not open to the exterior of the matrix. The major cavities, that is,
     open, interconnected regions of between about 5 or 10 to 70 or 100 microns in the
     smallest dimension (excluding any microorganism contained therein) have nominal major
     dimensions of less than about 300, preferably less than about 200, microns, and
                                               27

     sometimes a smallest dimension of at least about 10 microns. The term open, porous thus
     refers to the existence of channels or cavities that are interconnected by openings
     therebetween.
[72] Metabolic conditions include conditions of temperature, pressure, oxygenation, pH, and
     nutrients (including micronutrients) and additives required or desired for the
     microorganisms in the biocatalyst. Nutrients and additives include growth promoters,
     buffers, antibiotics, vitamins, minerals, nitrogen sources, and sulfur sources and carbon
     sources where not otherwise provided.
[73] A metalate is an oxyanion, hydroxyl or salt of a metal or semiconductor element.
[741 Municipal wastewater is collected wastewater from two or more sources wherein
     wastewater is generated by human activity including, but not limited to, human and
     animal excrement; domestic, commercial, agricultural, mining and industrial wastes and
     drainage; storm runoff; foodstuffs; and product, intermediate and raw materials disposal.
[75] Oxygenated organic product means a product containing one or more oxygenated organic
     compounds having 2 to 100, and frequently 2 to 50, carbons and at least one moiety
     selected from the group consisting of hydroxyl, carbonyl, ether and carboxyl.
[76] Permeable means that a component can enter or exit the major cavities from or to the
     exterior of the biocatalyst.
[77] Population of microorganisms refers to the number of microorganisms in a given volume
     and includes substantially pure cultures (axenic) and mixed cultures.
[78] A phenotypic change or alternation or phenotypic shift is a change in a microorganism's
     traits or characteristics from environmental factors and is thus different from a change in
     the genetic make-up of the microorganism.
[79] Quiescent means that the aqueous medium in a biocatalyst is still; however, flows of
     nutrients and substrates and bioproducts can occur through the aqueous medium via
     diffusion and capillary flow.
[80] Retained solids means that solids are retained in the interior of the biocatalyst. The solids
     can be retained by any suitable mechanism including, but not limited to, restrained by not
     being able to pass through pores in the skin of a biocatalyst, by being captured in a
                                               28

     biofilm or a polysaccharide structure formed by microorganisms, by being retained in the
     polymeric structure of the biocatalyst, or by being sterically entangled within the
     structure of the biocatalyst or the microorganisms.
[81] Smallest dimension means the maximum dimension of the shortest of the maximum
     dimensions defining the length, width and height of a major cavity. Usually a
     preponderance of the major cavities in a matrix are substantially width and height
     symmetrical. Hence the smallest dimension can be approximated by the maximum width
     of a cavity observed in a two dimensional cross section, e.g., by optical or electronic
     microscopy.
[82] A solubilized precursor for the polymer is a monomer or prepolymer or the polymer itself
     that is dissolved or dispersed such that solids cannot be seen by the naked eye and is
     stable. For instance, a solid can be highly hydrated and be suspended in an aqueous
     medium even though the solid is not dissolved.
[83] Sorption means any physical or chemical attraction and can be adsorption or absorption
     and may be relatively weak, e.g., about 10 kilojoules per mole or a chemical interaction
     with a sorbent. Preferably the sorptive attraction by the sorbent is greater than that
     between water and the substrate, but not so great that undue energy is required to desorb
     the substrate. Frequently the sorptive strength is between about 10 and 70, say, 15 and
     60, kilojoules per mole. A sorbent is a solid having sorptive capacity for at least one
     substrate.
[841 A stable population of microorganisms means that the population of microorganisms
     does not decrease by more than 50 percent nor increase by more than 400 percent. The
     stability of the microorganism population can usually be ascertained from the change, or
     lack of change, in bioconversion activity of the biocatalyst in its intended use.
[851 Sterilization means any process that kills all forms of microbial life, and a sterilizing
     agent means one or more chemicals or processes that can effect sterilization. Sterilization
     is thus a nonselective process as it affects all forms of microbial life. Disinfection may
     be sterilization or may affect microbial life without killing the microorganisms. A
     disinfecting agent means one or more chemicals or processes that can effect disinfection.
                                                29

[861 Substrates are carbon sources, electron donors, electron acceptors and other chemicals
     that can be metabolized by a microorganism, which chemicals, may or may not provide
     sustaining value to the microorganisms.
[87] Sugar means carbohydrates having 5 to 12 carbon atoms and includes, but is not limited
     to, D-glyceraldehyde, L-glyceraldehyde, D-erythrose, L-erythrose, D-threose, L-threose,
     D-ribose, L-ribose, D-lyxose, L-lyxose, D-allose, L-allose, D-altrose, L-altrose
     2-keto-3-deoxy D-gluconate (KDG), D-mannitol, guluronate, mannuronate, mannitol,
     lyxose, xylitol, D-glucose, L-glucose, D-mannose, L-mannose, D-gluose, L-gluose,
     D-idose, L-idose, D-galactose, L-galactose, D-xylose, L-xylose, D-arabinose,
     L-arabinose, D-talose, L-talose, glucuronate, galacturonate, rhamnose,
     fructooligosaccharide (FOS), galactooligosaccharide (GOS), inulin, mannan
     oligosaccharide (MOS), oligoalginate, mannuronate, guluronate, alpha-keto acid, or
     4-deoxy-L-erythro-hexoselulose uronate (DEHU).
[88] Typical Bioreactor Systems are those operated on a continuous, semi-continuous or batch
     mode of operation and include bioreactor designs such as, but are not limited to, ponds
     (in the case of photosynthetic processes), bubble column reactors, stirred reactors, packed
     bed reactors, trickle bed reactors, fluidized bed reactors, plug flow (tubular) reactors, and
     membrane (biofilm) reactors. In conducting photosynthetic bioconversions, the reactors
     may be designed to permit the transfer of photo energy. The biocatalyst may be freely
     mobile in the aqueous medium or fixed, e.g., to a structure in the reactor vessel, or may
     itself provide a fixed structure. More than one reactor vessel may be used. For instance,
     reactor vessels may be in parallel or in sequential flow series.
[89] Typical Mesophilic Conditions are metabolic conditions that include a temperature in the
     range of between about 00C and 50'C or more depending upon the temperature tolerance
     of the microorganism, most frequently, about 50 C or 10 C to 40'C or 45'C; a pressure in
     the ranges from about 70 to 500, say, 90 to 300, kPa absolute due to equipment
     configurations although higher and lower pressures could find applicability; and a pH in
     the range of between about 3 and 9. The Typical Mesophilic Conditions can be aerobic
     or anaerobic.
                                                30

[901 Typical Separation Techniques for chemical products include phase separation for
     gaseous chemical products, the use of a still, a distillation column, phase separation
     (liquid-liquid and solid-liquid), gas stripping, flow-through centrifuge, Karr column for
     liquid-liquid extraction, mixer-settler, or expanded bed adsorption. Separation and
     purification steps may proceed by any of a number of approaches combining various
     methodologies, which may include centrifugation, filtration, reduced pressure
     evaporation, liquid/liquid phase separation, membranes, distillation, and/or other
     methodologies recited herein. Principles and details of standard separation and
     purification steps are known in the art, for example in "Bioseparations Science and
     Engineering," Roger G. Harrison et al., Oxford University Press (2003), and Membrane
     Separations in the Recovery of Biofuels and Biochemicals--An Update Review, Stephen
     A. Leeper, pp. 99-194, in Separation and Purification Technology, Norman N. Li and
     Joseph M. Calo, Eds., Marcel Dekker (1992).
[91] The wet weight or wet mass of cells is the mass of cells from which free water has been
     removed, i.e., are at the point of incipient wetness.
[92] References to organic acids herein shall be deemed to include corresponding salts and
     esters.
[93] References to biocatalyst dimensions and volumes herein are of fully hydrated biocatalyst
     unless otherwise stated or clear from the context.
     Biocatalyst
             A. Biocatalyst Overview
[94] The biocatalysts described herein have a polymeric structure (matrix) defining
     interconnected major cavities, i.e., are open, porous matrices, in which the
     microorganisms are metabolically retained in the interior of the matrices, that is, the
     microorganisms promote the adherence rather than being physically restrained by an
     external structure. In the biocatalysts described herein, the microorganisms and their
     communities, inter alia, regulate their population. Also, in conjunction with the sensed
     nature of the microenvironment in the matrices, it is believed that the microorganisms
     establish a spatial relationship among the members of the community.
                                                31

[951 The community communication among the microorganisms and the behavior of the
     microorganisms thus are important to achieving and maintaining the metabolically
     retained microorganisms. The communication among the microorganisms is believed to
     occur through emitting chemical agents, including, but not limited to, autoinducers, and
     communication includes communications for community behavior and for signaling.
     Often, the preparation of the biocatalysts used in the processes described herein can result
     in a population of microorganisms being initially located in the interior of the biocatalyst
     that is substantially that which would exist at the steady-state level. At these densities of
     microorganisms in the biocatalysts, community communications are facilitated which are
     believed to commence during the formation of the biocatalysts, and phenotypic shifts
     occur to enable the metabolic retention and modulate the population of microorganisms.
[96] The environment to achieve the metabolically-retained, stable population of
     microorganisms is characterized by a highly hydrated structure of hydrophilic polymer,
     which structure defines a plurality of interconnected cavities of between about 5 and 100
     microns in the smallest dimension and has a Hydration Expansion Volume (HEV) of at
     least about 1000. The structure thus defines the microenvironments for the
     microorganisms. These microenvironments not only facilitate communication among the
     microorganisms but also in some instances modulate the environmental stresses on the
     microorganisms and modulate the supply of substrate and nutrients to the
     microorganisms. The highly hydrated and expanded structure of the porous matrices and
     its openness also can accommodate the metabolic retention of a large population of
     microorganisms and accommodate community behaviors associated with the metabolic
     retention.
[97] Without wishing to be limited to theory, it is believed that the very high HEV of the
     matrices means that that water exists within the solid structure itself. The absorbed water
     is believed to act through van der Waals interactions or hydrogen bonding with the
     hydrophilic polymer to interconnect polymer chains and strengthen the polymeric
     structure in the expanded state. When water is removed by dehydration, the polymer
     strands can collapse in such a manner as to enable significant shrinkage of the structure.
     The hydrated polymeric structure is believed to have a low average surface energy while
     still being able to provide sites for attachment by the microorganisms. In some instances
                                                 32

     the highly hydrated polymeric surface which itself may be a source of water and nutrients
     due to the hydration.
[981 The microorganisms that are retained in the matrices have the ability to form an
     exo-network. The quiescent nature of the cavities facilitate forming and then maintaining
     any formed exo-network. A discernable exo-network is not believed essential to
     achieving phenotypic alterations in the microorganism population such as population
     modulation and metabolic shift. Where an exo-network develops, often strands of EPS
     interconnect proximate microorganisms and connect microorganisms to the surface and
     form the exo-network. In some instances, the microorganisms form thin biofilms and
     these thin biofilms are encompassed in the exo-network. The biocatalysts of this
     invention have a substantial absence of biofilms in their interiors that are larger than thin
     biofilms. Hence, any biofilms that may ultimately form in the biocatalysts are relatively
     thin, e.g., up to about 10, and preferably up to about 2 or 5, microns in thickness, and
     stable in size. Thus, each thin biofilm is often only a few cells and is connected in an
     exo-network.
[99] Figures 1 and 2 are SEM images illustrating two potential configurations of
     microorganisms within major cavities in the interior of biocatalysts described herein.
     These images are not in limitation of the broad aspects described herein. Each
     biocatalyst is used in a bioconversion for extended periods of time prior to being prepared
     for SEM analysis. The bioconversion activity of each biocatalyst remains substantially
     constant over the duration of the bioconversion. The biocatalyst of Figure 1 comprises
     Saccharomyes cerevisiae and had been used to make ethanol from sugar over about a 2
     week period. The biocatalyst during its use evidenced that the microorganisms were
     irreversibly retained and a metabolic shift towards higher conversion efficiency to
     ethanol had occurred. The biocatalyst of Figure 2 comprises Achromobacter
     denitrificans and was used for nitrate and perchlorate degradation for about 1 month of
     continuous flow operation. This biocatalyst also evidenced that the microorganisms were
     irreversibly retained in the biocatalyst and effectively degraded perchlorate and nitrate
     anions without the generation of solids. Each image depicts that the microorganisms are
     in a high population density but have a spatial configuration that does not evidence
     overgrowth or the formation of thick biofilms. The exo-network observable in Figure 1
                                                33

      further evidences that an additional phenotypic has occurred in that the interconnection of
      the microorganisms is not characteristic of yeasts used in bioconversion processes.
      Figure 2 illustrates the fonnation of an exo-network. In general, more extensive
      exo-networks, when the microorganism generates EPS, occur over the duration of use of
      the biocatalyst.
[100] It is believed that in some instances the spatial configuration of the interior of the
      biocatalyst and any exo-network promotes communication among the microorganisms.
      The communications may be able to extend to spaced apart exo-networks and thin
      biofilm units. As a general rule, the strength, or concentration, of autoinducers is
      amplified by microorganisms in response to that autoinducer being emitted by another
      microorganism. This amplification is enhanced by the spatial configuration of the
      microenvironment in the interior of the biocatalyst and in some instances, the chemical
      composition of the polymer forming the biocatalyst. The import of the spacial
      configuration of the major cavities to the phenotypic alteration and population stability
      has been demonstrated by examination of biocatalysts containing large cavities, e.g.,
      greater than about 1000 microns in the smallest dimension. Although the biocatalyst
      exhibits bioconversion activity, the surface of the large cavities appeared to be
      substantially devoid of any microorganisms in contrast to a large, stable population of
      microorganisms in smaller cavities.
[1011 The communications are believed to result in the community of microorganisms
      maintaining a relatively constant population in the interior of the biocatalyst. Another
      phenotypic alteration occurring in the biocatalysts described herein, which is believed to
      be a result of this communication, is a metabolic shift, i.e., the metabolic functions of the
      community towards reproduction are diminished and the sought bioconversion continues.
      The population of microorganisms in the biocatalyst may tend to have an old average age
      due to this shift in the metabolic activity. Older microorganisms also tend to provide a
      more robust and sustainable performance as compared to younger cells as the older cells
      have adapted to the operating conditions.
[102] Additional benefits of this communication can be an increase in community-level
      strength or fitness exhibited by the community in warding off adventitious
                                                 34

      microorganisms and maintaining strain-type uniformity. In some instances, the
      microorganisms during use of the biocatalyst may undergo natural selection to cause the
      strain-type in the community to become heartier or provide another benefit for the
      survival of the community of microorganisms. In some instances, the communication
      among the microorganisms may permit the population of microorganisms to exhibit
      multicellularity or multicellular-like behaviors. Thus the population of microorganisms
      in a biocatalyst described herein may have microorganisms adapting to different
      circumstances but yet working in unison for the benefit of the community.
[103] In some instances the porous matrix may provide modulation of the substrate and
      nutrients to the microorganisms to optimize metabolic pathways involving substrates that
      are available, and these pathways may or may not be the primarily used pathways where
      ample substrate and other nutrients are available. Accordingly, microorganisms in the
      biocatalysts may exhibit enhanced bioactivity for a primarily used pathway or metabolic
      activity that is normally repressed.
[104] It is also believed that the microenvironments may promote genetic exchange or
      horizontal gene transfer. Conjugation or bacterial mating may also be facilitated,
      including the transfer of plasmids and chromosomal elements. Moreover, where
      microorganisms lyse, strands of DNA and RNA in the microenvironments are more
      readily accessible to be taken up by microorganisms in these microenvironments. These
      phenomena can enhance the functional abilities of the microorganisms.
[105] The biocatalysts exhibit an increased tolerance to toxins. In some instances,
      communications among microorganisms and any exo-network may facilitate the
      population establishing defenses against toxins. The community response to the presence
      of toxins has been observed in the biocatalysts described herein. For instance, the
      biocatalysts survive the addition of toxins such as ethanol and sodium hypochlorite and
      the original bioconversion activity is quickly recovered thus indicating the survival of
      essentially the entire community.
[106] If desired, the biocatalysts may be treated to enhance the formation of the exo-network,
      and if desired, thin biofilms, prior to use in the metabolic process. However,
      performance of the biocatalyst is not generally dependent upon the extent of exo-network
                                                 35

      fonnation, and often bioconversion activities remain relatively unchanged between the
      time before the microorganisms have attached to the polymeric structure and the time
      when extensive exo-network structures have been generated.
              B. PhysicalDescription of the PorousMatrices
[107] The biocatalysts described herein comprise a matrix having open, porous interior
      structure with microorganisms irreversibly, metabolically retained in at least the major
      cavities of the matrix.
[108] The matrices may be a self-supporting structure or may be placed on or in a preformed
      structure such as a film, fiber or hollow fiber, or shaped article. The preformed structure
      may be constructed of any suitable material including, but not limited to, metal, ceramic,
      polymer, glass, wood, composite material, natural fiber, stone, and carbon. Where
      self-supporting, the matrices are often in the form of sheets, cylinders, plural lobal
      structures such as trilobal extrudates,. hollow fibers, or beads which may be spherical,
      oblong, or free-form. The matrices, whether self-supporting or placed on or in a
      preformed structure, preferably have a thickness or axial dimension of less than about 5,
      preferably less than about 2, say, between about 0.01 to 1., centimeters.
[109] The porous matrices may have an isotropic or, preferably, an anisotropic structure with
      the exterior portion of the cross section having the densest structure. The major cavities,
      even if an anisotropic structure exists, may be relatively uniform in size throughout the
      interior of the matrix or the size of the maj or cavities, and their frequency, may vary over
      the cross-section of the biocatalyst.
[1101 The biocatalyst decribed herein has major cavities, that is, open, interconnected regions
      of between about 5 or 10 to 70 or 100 microns in the smallest dimension (excluding any
      microorganisms contained therein). For the purposes of ascertaining dimensions, the
      dimensions of the microorganisms include any mass in the exo-network. In many
      instances, the major cavities have nominal major dimensions of less than about 300,
      preferably less than about 200, microns, and sometimes a smallest dimension of at least
      about 10 microns. Often the biocatalyst contains smaller channels and cavities which are
      in open communication with the major cavities. Frequently the smaller channels have a
      maximum cross-sectional diameter of between about 0.5 to 20, e.g., I to 5 or 10, microns.
                                                 36

      The cumulative volume of major cavities, excluding the volume occupied by
      microorganisms and mass associated with the microorganisms, to the volume of the
      biocatalyst is generally in the range of about 40 or 50 to 70 or 99, volume percent. In
      many instances, the major cavities constitute less than about 70 percent of the volume of
      the fully catalyst with the remainder constituting the smaller channels and pores. The
      volume fraction of the biocatalyst that constitutes the major cavities can be estimated
      from its cross-section. The cross section may be observed via any suitable microscopic
      technique, e.g., scanning electron microscopy and high powered optical microscopy. The
      total pore volume for the matrices can be estimated from the volumetric measurement of
      the matrices and the amount and density of polymer, and any other solids used to make
      the matrices.
[1111 The biocatalyst is characterized by having high internal surface areas, often in excess of
      at least about 1 and sometimes at least about 10, square meter per gram. In some
      instances, the volume of water that can be held by a fully hydrated biocatalyst (excluding
      the volume of the microorganisms) is in the range of 90 to 99 or more, percent.
      Preferably the biocatalyst exhibits a Hydration Expansion Volume (HEV) of at least
      about 1000, frequently at least about 5000, preferably at least about 20,000, and
      sometimes between 50,000 and 200,000, percent.
[112] Usually the type of polymer selected and the void volume percent of the matrices are
      such that the matrices have adequate strength to enable handling, storage and use in a
      bioconversion process.
[1131 The porous matrices may or may not have an exterior skin. Preferably the matrices have
      an exterior skin to assist in modulating the influx and efflux of components to and from
      the interior channels of the porous matrix. Also, since the skin is highly hydrophilic, and
      additional benefit is obtained as contaminating or adventitious microorganisms have
      difficulties in establishing a strong biofilm on the exterior of the biocatalyst. These
      contaminating microorganisms are often subject to removal under even low physical
      forces such as by the flow of fluid around the biocatalysts. Thus, the fouling of the
      biocatalyst can be substantially eliminated or mitigated by washing or by fluid flows
      during use.
                                                  37

[114] Where present, the skin typically has pores of an average diameter of between about 1
      and 10, preferably 2 to 7, microns in average diameter. The pores may comprise about I
      to 30, say, 2 to 20, percent of the external surface area. The external skin, in addition to
      providing a barrier to entry of adventitious microorganisms into the interior of the
      biocatalyst, is preferably relatively smooth to reduce the adhesion of microorganisms to
      the external side of the skin through physical forces such as fluid flow and contact with
      other solid surfaces. Often, the skin is substantially devoid of anomalies, other than
      pores, greater than about 2 or 3 microns. Where a skin is present, its thickness is usually
      less than about 50, say, between about I and 25, microns. It should be understood that
      the thickness of the skin can be difficult to discern where the porous matrix has an
      anisotropic structure with the densest structure being at the exterior of the matrix.
[1151 The porous matrices provide a plurality of unique microenvironments and
      nano-environments within their interiors. These unique microenvironments and
      nano-environments result in enzymes or microorganisms located at different regions
      within the biocatalyst being subjected to different metabolic conditions. The metabolic
      conditions may differ in one or more of composition, oxidation or reduction potential and
      pH. For instance, the composition may vary based upon electron donor, other nutrients,
      contaminants, bioconversion products, and the like, and thus can affect the metabolic
      processes within the microorganism in such environment. Hence, it is possible to have
      within the same matrix, aerobic and anaerobic metabolism and to have enhanced
      bioconversion of a less preferred substrate as the more preferred substrate is metabolized.
      This ability to have plural, enhanced bioconversions can occur using a single strain of
      microorganism or using two or more different strains. In some instances, different
      phenotypic changes may occur depending upon the microenvironment in which the
      microorganisms are located.
[116] A number of factors contribute to the existence of these unique microenvironments. For
      instance, concentration gradients are a major driving force for the ingress and egress of
      components in the aqueous phase in these channels. As the microorganisms in the
      biocatalyst bioconvert components, concentration gradients occur, especially along
      channels extending from the major cavities. The changes in concentration of components
      thus results in variations of component concentrations within the biocatalyst. In some
                                                 38

      situations, the microorganisms having a reduced supply of electron donor or nutrients at
      one or more regions within the biocatalyst may be at or near starvation which can result
      in phenotypic changes leading to resistance to stress. The bioconversion and consequent
      gradient changes also affects the rate of ingress from and egress to the exterior of the
      biocatalyst of components.
[117] A high density of microorganisms can exist at steady-state operation within the
      biocatalysts. The combination of the flow channels and the high permeability of the
      polymeric structure defining the channels enable viable microorganism population
      throughout the matrix, albeit with a plurality of unique microenvironments and
      nano-environments. In some instances, the cell density based upon the volume of the
      biocatalyst is preferably at least about 100 grams per liter, preferably at least about 200,
      and often between about 250 and 750, grams per liter.
               Polysaccharide-containingbiocatalysts
[118] In one preferred aspect of the biocatalyst described herein, it has been found that through
      incorporating polysaccharide in the interior of the biocatalyst, the viability of the
      microorganism population can be maintained. Typically polysaccharides are not usable
      by most microorganisms. Often, the polysaccharide is provided in an amount of at least
      about 0.1, say, at least about 0.2 to 100, gram per gram of cells retained in the biocatalyst,
      and sometimes the biocatalyst contains between 25 and 500 grams of polysaccharide per
      liter of volume of fully hydrated biocatalyst. The polysaccharide particles used in
      preparing the biocatalysts preferably have a major dimension of less than about 50,
      preferably less than about 20, often between about 0.1 to 5, microns. The solid
      polysaccharide particles are preferably granular and often have an aspect ratio of
      minimum cross-sectional dimension to maximum cross sectional dimension of between
      about 1:10 to 1:1, say 1:2 to 1:1.
[119] Due to the ability of the polysaccharide to maintain the viability of the microorganisms in
      the biocatalyst, the storage, handling and processes for use of the biocatalyst can be
      facilitated. For instance, the biocatalysts can be used in bioconversion processes which
      are operated in a carbon deficient manner. In metabolic processes where carbon source is
      added to maintain the microorganisms and not used in the sought bioconversion of
                                                 39

      substrate to bioproduct, such as in the catabolysis of nitrate, nitrite, and perchlorate
      anions and the metabolic reduction of metalates, the polysaccharide may serve as the sole
      source of carbon and thereby eliminate the necessity of adding carbon source, or it may
      reduce the amount of carbon source added, i.e., permit carbon deficient operation. An
      advantage is that the bioprocesses can be operated such that the effluent has essentially
      no COD. The biocatalysts also have enhanced abilities to tolerate disruptions in substrate
      presence and be able to quickly regain bioconversion activity. Also, the biocatalysts can
      be remotely manufactured and shipped to the location of use without undue deleterious
      effect on the bioconversion activity of the biocatalyst. The biocatalysts may be able enter
      a state of essential stasis for extended durations of time in the absence of supplying
      substrate and other nutrients to the microbial composites even where excursions in the
      desired storage conditions such as temperature occur. The bioactivity can be quickly
      regained in a bioreactor even after extended episodic occurrences of shutdown, feedstock
      disruption, or feedstock variability. The biocatalysts can be packaged and shipped in
      sealed barrels, tanks, and the like.
[1201 The polysaccharide may be from any suitable source including, but not limited to,
      cellulosic polysaccharides or starches. Polysaccharides are carbohydrates characterized
      by repeating units linked together by glycosidic bonds and are substantially insoluble in
      water. Polysaccharides may be homopolysaccharides or heteropolysaccharides and
      typically have a degree of polymerization of between about 200 and 15,000 or more,
      preferably between about 200 and 5000. The preferred polysaccharides are those in
      which about 10, more preferably, at least about 20, percent of the repeating units are
      amylose (D-glucose units). Most preferably the polysaccharide has at least about 20,
      more preferably, at least about 30, percent of the repeating units being amylose. The
      polysaccharides may or may not be functionalized, e.g., with acetate, sulfate, phosphate,
      pyruvyl cyclic acetal, and the like, but such functionalization should not render the
      polysaccharide water soluble at temperatures below about 50'C. A preferred class of
      polysaccharides is starches.
[121] Sources of polysaccharides include naturally occurring and synthetic (e.g., polydextrose)
      polysaccharides. Various plant based materials providing polysaccharides include but are
      not limited to woody plant materials providing cellulose and hemicellulose, and wheat,
                                                40

      barley, potato, sweet potato, tapioca, corn, maize, cassava, milo, rye and brans typically
      providing starches.
              Solid sorbent-containingbiocatalysts
[1221 In another preferred aspect of the biocatalysts described herein, the biocatalysts comprise
      a solid sorbent. The solid sorbent may be the hydrophilic polymer forming the structure
      or may be a particulate, i.e., a distinct solid structure regardless of shape) contained in the
      solid structure. The sorbent may be any suitable solid sorbent for the substrate or
      nutrients or other chemical influencing the sought metabolic activity such as, but not
      limited to, co-metabolites, inducers, and promoters or for components that may be
      adverse to the microorganisms such as, and not in limitation, toxins, phages, bioproducts
      and by-products. The solid sorbent is typically an adsorbent where the sorption occurs on
      the surface of the sorbent. The particulate solid sorbents are preferably nano materials
      having a major dimension less than about 5 microns, preferably, between about 5
      nanometers to 3 microns. Where the solid sorbent is composed of polymer, the solid
      structure may be essentially entirely composed of the polymer or may be a block
      copolymer or polymeric mixture constituting between about 5 and 90 mass percent of the
      solid structure (excluding water). Where the solid sorbent is a separate particulate in the
      biocatalyst, the biocatalyst may comprise between about 5 to 90 mass percent of the mass
      of the biocatalyst (excluding water and microorganisms but including both the
      hydrophilic polymer and the particulates). More than one solid sorbent may be used in a
      biocatalyst. Preferably the solid sorbent is relatively uniformly dispersed throughout the
      interior of the biocatalyst although the solid sorbent may have a varying distribution
      within the biocatalyst. Where the distribution varies, the regions with the higher
      concentration of solid sorbent often are found toward the surface of the biocatalyst.
[1231 Where a particulate sorbent is used, the sorbent comprises an organic or inorganic
      material having the sought sorptive capacity. Examples of solid sorbents include, without
      limitation, polymeric materials, especially with polar moieties, carbon (including but not
      limited to activated carbon), silica (including but not limited to fumed silica), silicates,
      clays, molecular sieves, and the like. The molecular sieves include, but are not limited to
      zeolites and synthetic crystalline structures containing oxides and phosphates of one or
                                                  41

      more of silicon, aluminum, titanium, copper, cobalt, vanadium, titanium, chromium, iron,
      nickel, and the like. The sorptive properties may comprise one or more of physical or
      chemical or quasi-chemical sorption on the surface of the solid sorbent. Thus, surface
      area and structure may influence the sorptive properties of some solid sorbents.
      Frequently the solid sorbents are porous and thus provide high surface area and physical
      sorptive capabilities. Often the pores in the solid sorbents are in the range of about 0.3 to
      2 nanometers in effective diameter.
[1241 The solid sorbent may be incorporated into the polymeric structure in any convenient
      manner, preferably during the preparation of the biocatalyst.
              Phosphorescentbiocatalysts
[125] Another preferred aspect described herein pertains to biocatalysts containing
      phosphorescent material and photosynthetic microorganisms, i.e., microorganisms that
      uses light energy in a metabolic process. Preferably the microorganism is an algae, most
      preferably a microalgae, or cyanobacteria.
[126] The bioactivity of photosynthetic microorganisms can be enhanced to produce expressed
      bioproduct using broad-based light source such as sunlight. In accordance with the
      disclosure, the photosynthetic microorganisms are irreversibly retained in biocatalysts in
      which the interior of the biocatalyst contains phosphorescent material capable of shifting
      UV light to light having a wavelength of between about 400 and 800, preferably between
      about 450 and 650, nm and is capable of exhibiting persistence, with the emission of the
      light often lasting for at least about 5 seconds. A phosphorescent material is a material
      that has the ability to be excited by electromagnetic radiation into an excited state, but the
      stored energy is released gradually. Emissions from phosphorescent materials have
      persistence, that is, emissions from such materials can last for seconds, minutes or even
      hours after the excitation source is removed. A luminescent material is a material
      capable of emitting electromagnetic radiation after being excited into an excited state.
      Persistence is the time it takes, after discontinuing irradiation, for photoluminescent
      emissions emanating from a photoluminescent object to decrease to the threshold
      detectability.
                                                  42

[127] The persistence of the radiation enables the microorganisms to be cycled in and out of a
      region of the culture liquid exposed to the light source and still be productive. With
      longer persistence durations, the photosynthetic microorganisms can continue
      photo-bioconversion in the absence of or reduction in light intensity. The ability of the
      biocatalysts to maintain photosynthetic activity over extended periods of time, often at
      least about 30 days, and in some instances for at least one year, the cost of the
      phosphorescent materials is often offset by the increased production, reduced footprint of
      the bioreactor, and facilitated bioproduct recovery.
[128] The biocatalyst, being highly hydrated is a significant distributor of light radiation to
      photosynthetic microorganisms retained in the interior of the biocatalyst and also serves
      to protect the microorganism from photorespiration. The solid debris in the culture liquid
      (an aqueous solution comprising nutrients for metabolic processes) can be materially
      reduced, if not essentially eliminated, due to the microorganisms being irreversibly
      retained in the biocatalyst. Thus the turbidity is reduced and a given light intensity can
      thus be found at a greater depth in the culture liquid. These advantages provided by the
      biocatalysts described herein can be realized in any photosynthetic process regardless of
      whether or not a phosphorescent material is used.
[1291 Examples of phosphorescent materials include, but are not limited to, phosphorescent
      materials are metal sulfide phosphors such as ZnCdS:Cu:Al, ZnCdS:Ag:Al, ZnS:Ag:Al,
      ZnS:Cu:Al as described in U.S. Pat. No. 3,595,804 and metal sulfides that are
      co-activated with rare earth elements such as those describe in U.S. Pat. No. 3,957,678.
      Phosphors that are higher in luminous intensity and longer in luminous persistence than
      the metal sulfide pigments include compositions comprising a host material that is
      generally an alkaline earth aluminate, or an alkaline earth silicate. The host materials
      generally comprise Europium as an activator and often comprise one or more
      co-activators such as elements of the Lanthanide series (e.g. lanthanum, cerium,
      praseodymium, neodymium, samarium, gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, holmium,
      erbium, thulium, ytterbium, and lutetium), tin, manganese, yttrium, or bismuth. Examples
      of such phosphors are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,424,006.
                                                43

[130] High emission intensity and persistence phosphorescent materials can be alkaline earth
      aluminate oxides having the formula MOm Al 2O 3:Eu 2 +, R3 + wherein m is a number
      ranging from 1.6 to about 2.2, M is an alkaline earth metal (strontium, calcium or
      barium), Eu2+ is an activator, and R is one or more trivalent rare earth materials of the
      lanthanide series (e.g. lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium, neodymium, samarium,
      gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, holmium, erbium, thulium, ytterbium, lutetium),
      yttrium or bismuth co-activators. Examples of such phosphors are described in U.S. Pat.
      No. 6,117,362. Phosphorescent materials also include alkaline earth aluminate oxides
      having the formula Mk Al204:2xEu2+, 2yR3 + wherein k=1-2x-2y, x is a number ranging
      from about 0.0001 to about 0.05, y is a number ranging from about x to 3x, M is an
      alkaline earth metal (strontium, calcium or barium), Eu2+ is an activator, and R is one or
      more trivalent rare earth materials (e.g. lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium, neodymium,
      samarium, gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, holmium, erbium, thulium, ytterbium,
      lutetium), yttrium or bismuth co-activators. See U.S. Pat. No. 6,267,91 IBl.
[131] Phosphorescent materials also include those in which a portion of the Al+ in the host
      matrix is replaced with divalent ions such as Mg2+ or Zn2+ and those in which the alkaline
      earth metal ion (M2+) is replaced with a monovalent alkali metal ion such as Li+, Na+, K*,
      Cs' or Rb+ such as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6,117,362 and 6,267,91 1Bl.
[132] High intensity and high persistence silicates have been disclosed in U.S. Pat.
      No. 5,839,718, such as Sr.BaO.Mg.MO.SiGe:Eu:Ln wherein M is beryllium, zinc or
      cadmium and Ln is chosen from the group consisting of the rare earth materials, the
      group 3A elements, scandium, titanium, vanadium, chromium, manganese, yttrium,
      zirconium, niobium, molybdenum, hafnium, tantalum, tungsten, indium, thallium,
      phosphorous, arsenic, antimony, bismuth, tin, and lead. Particularly useful are
      dysprosium, neodymium, thulium, tin, indium, and bismuth. X in these compounds is at
      least one halide atom.
[133] Other phosphorescent materials include alkaline earth aluminates of the formula
      MO.Al20 3 .B20 3 :R wherein M is a combination of more than one alkaline earth metal
      (strontium, calcium or barium or combinations thereof) and R is a combination of Eu2
      activator, and at least one trivalent rare earth material co-activator, (e.g. lanthanum,
                                                 44

      cerium, praseodymium, neodymium, samarium, gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium,
      holmium, erbium, thulium, ytterbium, lutetium), bismuth or manganese. Examples of
      such phosphors can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 5,885,483. Alkaline earth aluminates of the
      type MA12 O 4 , which are described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,424,006, may also find application
      as may phosphorescent materials comprising a donor system and an acceptor system such
      as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,953,536 B2.
[134] As can be appreciated, many other phosphors can find application. See, for instance, Yen
      and Weber, Inorganic Phosphors: Compositions, Preparation and Optical Properties, CRC
      Press, 2004.
[1351 The phosphorescent material may be a discrete particle or may be a particle having a
      coating to facilitate incorporation and retention in the polymer forming the matrix. The
      particles may be of any suitable shape. Generally the maximum dimension of the of the
      particles is less than about 1 millimeter, preferably less than about 0. 1 millimeter. The
      particles may be nanoparticles.
[136] The persistence time exhibited by the phosphorescent materials can range from a short
      duration, e.g., about 5 to 10 seconds, to as much as 10 or 20 hours or more and will be
      dependent upon the phosphorescent material used. Preferred phosphorescent materials
      exhibit a persistence of at least about one minute. The intensity of the emitted radiation
      will, in part, depend upon the concentration of the phosphorescent material in the
      biocatalyst and the nature of the phosphorescent material. Typically the phosphorescent
      material is provided in an amount of at least about 0.1, say, between 0.2 and 5 or 10,
      mass percent of the polymer (non-hydrated) in the biocatalyst. One or more
      phosphorescent materials may be used in the biocatalyst. Where more than one
      phosphorescent material are used, the combination may be selected to provide one or
      more of wave shifting from different light wavelengths contained in the band width of the
      radiation source and providing differing persistence times. In preferred embodiments the
      phosphorescent materials are in the form of nanoparticles, e.g., having a major dimension
      of between about 10 nm and 10 tm. In some instances, it may be desired to coat the
      phosphorescent materials with a compatibilizing agent to facilitate incorporation of the
      phosphorescent material within the polymer. Compatibilizing agents include, but are not
                                                45

      limited to, molecules having one or more of hydroxyl, thiol, silyl, carboxyl, or
      phosphoryl groups.
               Enzyme-containing biocatalysts
[1371 In another aspect, the biocatalysts can contain, in addition to the microorganisms, one or
      more isolated enzymes in the interior of the biocatalyst to cause a catalytic change to a
      component which may be substrate or other nutrients, or a bioproduct or by-product or
      co-product of the microorganisms, or may be a toxin, phage or the like. Typically
      extracellular enzymes bond or adhere to solid surfaces, such as the hydrophilic polymer,
      solid additives, cell walls and extracellular polymeric substance. It is understood that
      isolated enzymes may also be located within the cell of a microorganism. Hence, the
      enzymes can be substantially irreversibly retained in the interior of the biocatalyst. Due
      to the structure of the biocatalysts described herein, the microorganisms and the enzymes
      can be in close proximity and thus effective, cooperative bioconversions can be obtained.
      The association of the enzymes with the interior surfaces of the biocatalyst typically
      increases the resistance of the enzyme or enzymes to denaturation due to changes in
      temperature, pH, or other factors related to thermal or operational stability of the
      enzymes. Also, by being retained in the biocatalyst, the use of the enzyme in a bioreactor
      is facilitated and undesirable post-reactions can be mitigated.
[138] Examples of enzymes include, but are not limited to, one or more of oxidorectases,
      transferases, hydrolases, lyases, isomerases, and ligases. The enzymes may cause one or
      more metabolic conversions. For instance, an enzyme may metabolize a component in
      the feed to provide an intermediate for use by the microorganisms in the biocatalyst. An
      enzyme may be used to metabolize a metabolite of the microorganism to provide a sought
      bioproduct. An enzyme may be used to metabolize a component in the feed or a
      co-metabolite from the microorganism that may be adverse to the microorganism into a
      metabolite that is less adverse to the microorganism. If desired, two or more different
      enzymes can be used to effect a series of metabolic conversions on a component in the
      feed or a metabolite from the microorganism.
[139] Representative enzymes include, without limitation: cellulase, cellobiohydrolase (e.g.,
      CBHI, CBHII), alcohol dehydrogenase (A, B, and C), acetaldehyde dehydrogenase,
                                                 46

      amylase, alpha amylase, glucoamylase, beta glucanase, beta glucosidase, invertase,
      endoglucanase (e.g., EGI, EGII, EGIII), lactase, hemicellulase, pectinase, hydrogenase,
      pullulanase, phytase, a hydrolase, a lipase, polysaccharase, ligninase, Accellerase@ 1000,
      Accellerase@ 1500, Accellerase@ DUET, Accellerase@ TRIO, or Cellic CTec2 enzymes,
      phosphoglucose isomerase, inositol- 1-phosphate synthase, inositol monophosphatase,
      myo-inositol dehydrogenase, myo-inosose-2-dehydratase, inositol 2-dehydrogenase,
      deoxy-D-gluconate isomerase, kinase, 5-dehydro-2-deoxygluconokinase,
      deoxyphophogluconate aldolase, 3-hydroxy acid dehydrogenase, isomerase,
      topoisomerase, dehydratase, monosaccharide dehydrogenase, aldolase, phosphatase, a
      protease, DNase, alginate lyase, laminarinase, endoglucanase, L-butanediol
      dehydrogenase, acetoin reductase, 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase, or cis-aconitate
      decarboxylase. The enzymes include those described by Heinzelman et al. (2009) PNAS
       106: 5610-5615, herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.
[140] The enzymes may be bound to the precursor for the hydrophilic polymer of the
      biocatalyst prior to the formation of the biocatalyst or may be introduced during the
      preparation of the biocatalyst, e.g., by addition to the liquid medium for forming the
      biocatalyst. There are many methods that would be known to one of skill in the art for
      providing enzymes or fragments thereof, or nucleic acids, onto a solid support. Some
      examples of such methods include, e.g., electrostatic droplet generation, electrochemical
      means, via adsorption, via covalent binding, via cross-linking, via a chemical reaction or
      process. Various methods are described in Methods in Enzymology, Immobilized
      Enzymes and Cells, Part C. 1987. Academic Press. Edited by S. P. Colowick and N. 0.
      Kaplan. Volume 136; Immobilization of Enzymes and Cells. 1997. Humana Press. Edited
      by G. F. Bickerstaff. Series: Methods in Biotechnology, Edited by J. M. Walker;
      DiCosimo, R., McAuliffe, J., Poulose, A.J. Bohlmann, G. 2012. Industrial use of
      immobilized enzymes. Chem. Soc. Rev.; and Immobilized Enzymes: Methods and
      Applications. Wilhelm Tischer and Frank Wedekind, Topics in Current Chemistry, Vol.
      200. Page 95-126.
                                                47

              C. Methods for making biocatalysts
[1411 The components, including microorganisms, used to make the biocatalysts and the
      process conditions used for the preparation of the biocatalysts are not critical to the broad
      aspects of this disclosure and may vary widely as is well understood in the art once
      understanding the principles of metabolically retaining microorganisms described above.
      In any event, the components and process conditions for making the biocatalysts with the
      irreversibly, metabolically retained microorganisms should not unduly adversely affect
      the microorganisms.
[142] The biocatalysts may be prepared from a liquid medium containing the microorganism
      and solubilized precursor for the hydrophilic polymer which may be one or more of a
      polymerizable or solidifiable component or a solid that is fusible or bondable to form the
      matrix. Aqueous media are most often used due to the compatibility of most
      microorganisms and enzymes with water. However, with microorganisms that tolerate
      other liquids, such liquids can be used to make all or a portion of the liquid medium.
      Examples of such other liquids include, but are not limited to liquid hydrocarbons,
      peroxygenated liquids, liquid carboxy-containing compounds, and the like. Mixed liquid
      media can also be used to prepare the biocatalyst. The mixed media may comprise
      miscible or immiscible liquid phases. For instance, the microorganism may be suspended
      in a dispersed, aqueous phase and the polymerizable or solidifiable component may be
      contained in a continuous solvent phase.
[143] The liquid medium used to prepare the biocatalyst may contain more than one type of
      microorganism, especially where the microorganisms do not significantly compete for the
      same substrate, and may contain one or more isolated enzymes or functional additives
      such as polysaccharide, solid sorbent and phosphorescent materials, as described above.
      Preferably, the biocatalysts contain a single type of microorganism. The concentration of
      the microorganisms in the liquid medium used to make the biocatalysts should at least be
      about 60 grams per liter. As discussed above, the concentration of microorganisms
      should preferably approximate the sought density of microorganisms in the biocatalyst.
      The relative amounts of microorganism and polymeric material in forming the biocatalyst
      can vary widely. The growth of the population of microorganisms post formation of the
                                                48

       biocatalyst is contemplated as well as the potential for damage to some of the population
       of microorganisms during the biocatalyst-forming process. Nevertheless, higher
       microorganism concentrations are generally preferred, e.g., at least about 100 grams per
       liter, preferably at least about 200, and often between about 250 and 750, grams per liter
       of the liquid medium used to make the biocatalysts.
[144] Any suitable process may be used to solidify or polymerize the polymeric material or to
       adhere or fuse particles to forn the open, porous polymeric matrix with microorganism
       irreversibly retained therein. The conditions of suitable processes should not unduly
       adversely affect the microorganisms. As microorganisms differ in tolerance to
       temperatures, pressures and the presence of other chemicals, some matrix-forming
       processes may be more advantageous for one type of microorganism than for another
       type of microorganism.
 1451] Preferably the polymeric matrix is formed from solidification of a high molecular weight
       material, by polymerization or by cross-linking of prepolymer in manner that a
       population of microorganisms is provided in the interior of the biocatalyst as it is being
       formed. Exemplary processes include solution polymerization, slurry polymerization
       (characterized by having two or more initial phases), and solidification by cooling or
       removal of solvent.
[146]  The biocatalysts may be formed in situ in the liquid medium by subjecting the medium to
       solidification conditions (such as cooling or evaporation) or adding a component to cause
       a polymerization or cross-linking or agglomeration of solids to occur to form a solid
       structure such as a catalyst, cross-linking agent or coagulating agent. Alternatively, the
       liquid medium may be extruded into a solution containing a solidification agent such as a
       catalyst, cross-linking or coagulating agent or coated onto a substrate and then the
       composite subjected to conditions to form the solid biocatalyst.
[147] Polymeric materials used to make the biocatalysts may have an organic or inorganic
       backbone but have sufficient hydrophilic moieties to provide a highly hydrophilic
       polymer which when incorporated into the matrices exhibits sufficient water sorption
       properties to provide the sought Hydration Expansion Volume of the biocatalyst.
       Polymeric materials are also intended to include high molecular weight substances such
                                                  49

      as waxes (whether or not prepared by a polymerization process), oligomers and the like
      so long as they form biocatalysts that remain solid under the conditions of the
      bioconversion process intended for their use and have sufficient hydrophilic properties
      that the Hydration Expansion Volume can be achieved. As stated above, it is not
      essential that polymeric materials become cross-linked or further polymerized in forming
      the polymeric matrix.
[148] Examples of polymeric materials include homopolymers and copolymers which may or
      may not be cross-linked and include condensation and addition polymers that provide
      high hydrophilicity and enable the Hydration Expansion Volumes to be obtained. The
      polymer may be a homopolymer or a copolymer, say, of a hydrophilic moiety and a more
      hydrophobic moiety. The molecular weight and molecular weight distribution are
      preferably selected to provide the combination of hydrophilicity and strength as is known
      in the art. The polymers may be functionalized with hydrophilic moieties to enhance
      hydrophilicity. Examples of hydrophilic moieties include, but are not limited to
      hydroxyl, alkoxyl, acyl, carboxyl, amido, and oxyanions of one or more of titanium,
      molybdenum, phosphorus, sulfur and nitrogen such as phosphates, phosphonates,
      sulfates, sulfonates, and nitrates, and the hydrophilic moieties may be further substituted
      with hydrophilic moieties such as hydroxyalkoxides, acetylacetonate, and the like.
      Typically the polymers contain carbonyl and hydroxyl groups, especially at some
      adjacent hydrophilic moieties such as glycol moieties. In some instances, the backbone
      of the polymer contains ether oxygens to enhance hydrophilicity. In some instances, the
      atomic ratio of oxygen to carbon in the polymer is between about 0.3:1 to 5:1.
[1491 Polymers which may find use in forming the matrices include functionalized or
      non-functionalized polyacrylamides, polyvinyl alcohols, polyetherketones,
      polyurethanes, polycarbonates, polysulfones, polysulfides, polysilicones, olefinic
      polymers such as polyethylene, polypropylene, polybutadiene, rubbers, and polystyrene,
      nylons, polythyloxazyoline, polyethylene glycol, polysaccharides such as sodium
      alginate, carageenan, agar, hyaluronic acid, chondroitin sulfate, dextran, dextran sulfate,
      heparin, heparin sulfate, heparan sulfate, chitosan, gellan gum, xanthan gum, guar gum,
      water soluble cellulose derivatives and carrageenan, and proteins such as gelatin,
      collagen and albumin, which may be polymers, prepolymers or oligomers, and polymers
                                                 50

and copolymers from the following monomers, oligomers and prepolymers:
monomethacrylates such as polyethylene glycol monomethacrylate, polypropylene glycol
monomethacrylate, polypropylene glycol monomethacrylate, methoxydiethylene glycol
methacrylate, methoxypolyethylene glycol methacrylate, methacryloyloxyethyl hydrogen
phthalate, methacryloyloxyethyl hydrogen succinate, 3-chloro-2-hydroxypropyl
methacrylate, stearyl methacrylate, 2-hydroxy methacrylate, and ethyl methacrylate;
monoacrylates such as 2-hydroxyethyl acrylate, 2-hydroxypropyl acrylate, isobutyl
acrylate, t-butyl acrylate, isooctyl acrylate, lauryl acrylate, stearyl acrylate, isobornyl
acrylate, cyclohexyl acrylate, methoxytriethylene glycol acrylate, 2-ethoxyethyl acrylate,
tetrahydrofurfuryl acrylate, phenoxyethyl acrylate, nonylphenoxypolyethylene glycol
acrylate, nonylphenoxypolypropylene glycol acrylate, silicon-modified acrylate,
polypropylene glycol monoacrylate, phenoxyethyl acrylate, phenoxydiethylene glycol
acrylate, phenoxypolyethylene glycol acrylate, methoxypolyethylene glycol acrylate,
aciyloyloxyethyl hydrogen succinate, and lauryl acrylate; dimethacrylates such as
 1,3-butylene glycol dimethacrylate, 1,4-butanediol dimethacrylate, ethylene glycol
dimethacrylate, diethylene glycol dimethacrylate, triethylene glycol dimethacrylate,
polyethylene glycol dimethacrylate, butylene glycol dimethacrylate, hexanediol
dimethacrylate, neopentyl glycol dimethacrylate, polyprene glycol dimethacrylate,
2-hydroxy-1,3-dimethaciyloxypropane, 2,2-bis-4-methacryloxyethoxyphenylpropane,
3 ,2-bis-4-methacryloxydiethoxyphenylpropane, and 2,2-bis-4
methacryloxypolyethoxyphenylpropane; diacrylates such as ethoxylated neopentyl glycol
diacrylate, polyethylene glycol diacrylate, 1,6-hexanediol diacrylate, neopentyl glycol
diacrylate, tripropylene glycol diacrylate, polypropylene glycol diacrylate,
2,2-bis-4-acryloxyethoxyphenylpropane, 2-hydroxy-1-acryloxy-3-methaciyloxypropane;
trimethacrylates such as trimethylolpropane trimethacrylate; triacrylates such as
trimethylolpropane triacrylate, pentaerythritol triacrylate, trimethylolpropane EO-added
triacrylate, glycerol PO-added triacrylate, and ethoxylated trimethylolpropane triacrylate;
tetraacrylates such as pentaerythritol tetraacrylate, ethoxylated pentaerythritol
tetraacrylate, propoxylated pentaerythritol tetraacrylate, and ditrimethylolpropane
tetraacrylate; urethane acrylates such as urethane acrylate, urethane dimethyl acrylate,
and urethane trimethyl acrylate; amino-containing moieties such as 2-aminoethyl
                                           51

      acrylate, 2-aminoethyl methacrylate, aminoethyl methacrylate, dimethyl aminoethyl
      methacrylate, monomethyl aminoethyl methacrylate, t-butylaminoethylmethacrylate,
      p-aminostyrene, o-aminostyrene, 2-amino-4-vinyltoluene, dimethylaminoethyl acrylate,
      diethylaminoethyl acrylate, piperidinoethyl ethyl acrylate, piperidinoethyl methacrylate,
      morpholinoethyl acrylate, morpholinoethyl methacrylate, 2-vinyl pyridine, 3-vinyl
      pyridine, 2-ethyl-5-vinyl pyridine, dimethylaminopropylethyl acrylate,
      dimethylaminopropylethyl methacrylate, 2-vinyl pyrrolidone, 3-vinyl pyrrolidone,
      dimethylaminoethyl vinyl ether, dimethylaminoethyl vinyl sulfide, diethylaminoethyl
      vinyl ether, 2-pyrrolidinoethyl acrylate, 2-pyrrolidinoethyl methacrylate, and other
      monomers such as acrylamide, acrylic acid, and dimethylacrylamide.
[150] Not all the above listed polymers will be useful by themselves, but may be required to be
      functionalized or used to form a co-polymer with a highly hydrophilic polymer.
[151] Cross linking agents, accelerators, polymerization catalysts, and other polymerization
      additives may be employed such as triethanolamine, triethylamine, ethanolamine,
      N-methyl diethanolamine, NN-dimethyl benzylamine, dibenzyl amino, N-benzyl
      ethanolamine, N-isopropyl benzylamino, tetramethyl ethylenediamine, potassium
      persulfate, tetramethyl ethylenediamine, lysine, ornithine, histidine, arginine, N-vinyl
      pyrrolidinone, 2-vinyl pyridine, 1-vinyl imidazole, 9-vinyl carbazone, acrylic acid, and
      2-allyl-2-methyl-1,3-cyclopentane dione. For polyvinyl alcohol polymers and
      copolymers, boric acid and phosphoric acid may be used in the preparation of polymeric
      matrices. As stated above, the amount of cross-linking agent may need to be limited to
      assure that the matrices retain high hydrophilicity and the ability to have a high Hydration
      Expansion Volume. The selection of the polymer and cross-linking agents and other
      additives to make porous matrices having the physical properties set forth above is within
      the level of the artisan in the art of water soluble and highly hydrophilic polymer
      synthesis.
[152] The biocatalysts may be formed in the presence of other additives which may serve to
      enhance structural integrity or provide a beneficial activity for the microorganism such as
      attracting or sequestering components, providing nutrients, and the like. Additives can
      also be used to provide, for instance, a suitable density to be suspended in the aqueous
                                                  52

      medium rather than tending to float or sink in the broth. Typical additives include, but
      are not limited to, starch, glycogen, cellulose, lignin, chitin, collagen, keratin, clay,
      alumina, aluminosilicates, silica, aluminum phosphate, diatomaceous earth, carbon,
      polymer, polysaccharide and the like. These additives can be in the form of solids when
      the polymeric matrices are formed, and if so, are often in the range of about 0.01 to 100
      microns in major dimension.
[153] If desired, the microorganisms may be subjected to stress as is known in the art. Stress
      may be one or more of starvation, chemical or physical conditions. Chemical stresses
      include toxins, antimicrobial agents, and inhibitory concentrations of compounds.
      Physical stresses include light intensity, UV light, temperature, mechanical agitation,
      pressure or compression, and desiccation or osmotic pressure. The stress may produce
      regulated biological reactions that protect the microorganisms from shock and the stress
      may allow the hardier microorganisms to survive while the weaker cells die.
      Microorganisms
[154] The microorganisms may be unicellular or may be multicellular that behaves as a single
      cell microorganism such as filamentous growth microorganisms and budding growth
      microorganisms. Often the cells of multicellular microorganisms have the capability to
      exist singularly. The microorganisms can be of any type, including, but not limited to,
      those microorganisms that are aerobes, anaerobes, facultative anaerobes, heterotrophs,
      autotrophs, photoautotrophs, photoheterotrophs, chemoautotrophs, and/or
      chemoheterotrophs. The cellular activity, including cell growth can be aerobic,
      microaerophilic, or anaerobic. The cells can be in any phase of growth, including lag (or
      conduction), exponential, transition, stationary, death, dormant, vegetative, sporulating,
      etc. The one or more microorganisms be a psychrophile (optimal growth at - I00 C to
      25'C), a mesophile (optimal growth at 20-50'C), a thermophile (optimal growth 45'C to
      80'C), or a hyperthermophile (optimal growth at 80'C to 100 C). The one or more
      microorganisms can be a gram-negative or gram-positive bacterium. A bacterium can be
      a cocci (spherical), bacilli (rod-like), or spirilla (spiral-shaped; e.g., vibrios or comma
      bacteria). The microorganisms can be phenotypically and genotypically diverse.
                                                  53

[155] The microorganisms can be a wild-type (naturally occurring) microorganism or a
      recombinant microorganism (including, but not limited to genetically engineered
      microorganisms). A recombinant microorganism can comprise one or more heterologous
      nucleic acid sequences (e.g., genes). One or more genes can be introduced into a
      microorganism used in the methods, compositions, or kits described herein, e.g., by
      homologous recombination. One or more genes can be introduction into a
      microorganism with, e.g., a vector. The one or more microorganisms can comprise one
      or more vectors. A vector can be an autonomously replicating vector, i.e., a vector that
      exists as an extra-chromosomal entity, the replication of which is independent of
      chromosomal replication, e.g., a linear or closed circular plasmid, an extra-chromosomal
      element, a mini-chromosome, or an artificial chromosome. The vector can contain a
      means for self-replication. The vector can, when introduced into a host cell, integrate into
      the genome of the host cell and replicate together with the one or more chromosomes into
      which it has been integrated. Such a vector can comprise specific sequences that can
      allow recombination into a particular, desired site of the host chromosome. A vector
      system can comprise a single vector or plasmid, two or more vectors or plasmids, which
      together contain the total DNA to be introduced into the genome of the host cell, or a
      transposon. The choice of the vector will typically depend on the compatibility of the
      vector with the host cell into which the vector is to be introduced. The vector can include
      a reporter gene, such as a green fluorescent protein (GFP), which can be either fused in
      frame to one or more of the encoded polypeptides, or expressed separately. The vector
      can also include a selection marker such as an antibiotic resistance gene that can be used
      for selection of suitable transformants. Means of genetically manipulating organisms are
      described, e.g., Current Protocols in Molecular Biology, last updated July 25, 2011,
      Wiley, Print ISSN: 1934-3639. In some embodiments, one or more genes involved in
      byproduct formation are deleted in a microorganism. In some embodiments, one or more
      genes involved in byproduct formation are not deleted. Nucleic acid introduced into a
      microorganism can be codon-optimized for the microorganism. A gene can be modified
      (e.g., mutated) to increase the activity of the resulting gene product (e.g., enzyme).
      Sought properties in wild-type or genetically modified microorganisms can often be
      enhanced through a natural modification process, or self-engineering process, involving
                                                54

      multigenerational selective harvesting to obtain strain improvements such as
      microorganisms that exhibit enhanced properties such as robustness in an environment or
      bioactivity. See, for instance, Ben-Jacob, et al., Self-engineering capabilities of bacteria,
      J. R. Soc. Interface 2006, 3, doi: 10.1098/rsif.2005.0089, 22 February 2006.
[1561 The selected microorganism to be used in a biocatalyst can be targeted to the sought
      activity. The biocatalysts thus often contain substantially pure strain types of
      microorganisms and, because of the targeting, enable high bioactivity to be achieved and
      provide a stable population of the microorganism in the biocatalyst.
[157] Representative microorganisms for making biocatalysts described herein include, without
      limitation, those set forth in United States published patent application nos.
      2011/0072714, especially paragraph 0122; 2010/0279354, especially paragraphs 0083
      through 0089; 2011/0185017, especially paragraph 0046; 2009/0155873; especially
      paragraph 0093; and 20060063217, especially paragraphs 0030 and 0031, and those set
      forth in Appendix A hereto.
[158] Photosynthetic microorganisms include bacteria, algae, and molds having biocatalytic
      activity activated by light radiation. Examples of photosynthetic microorganisms for
      higher oxygenated organic compound production include, but are not limited to alga such
      as Bacillariophyceaestrains, Chlorophyceae, Cyanophyceae, Xanthophyceaei,
      Chrysophyceae, Chlorella(e.g., Chlorellaprotothecoides), Crypthecodinium,
      Schizocytrium, Nannochloropsis, Ulkenia, Dunaliella, Cyclotella, Navicula, Nitzschia,
      Cyclotella, Phaeodactylum, and Thaustochytrids; yeasts such as Rhodotorula,
      Saccharomyces, and Apiotrichum strains; and fungi species such as the Mortierella strain.
      Genetically enhanced photoautotrophic cyanobacteria, algae, and other photoautotrophic
      organisms have been adapted to bioconvert carbohydrates internal to the microorganism
      directly to ethanol, butanol, pentanol and other higher alcohols and other biofuels. For
      example, genetically modified cyanobacteria having constructs comprising DNA
      fragments encoding pyruvate decarboxylase (pdc) and alcohol dehydrogenase (adh)
      enzymes are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,699,696. Cyanobacteria are photosynthetic
      bacteria which use light, inorganic elements, water, and a carbon source, generally carbon
      dioxide, to metabolize and grow. The production of ethanol using genetically engineered
                                                 55

      cyanobacteria has also been described in PCT Published Patent Application WO
      2007/084477.
[159] The following examples are provided in illustration of the biocatalysts and processes for
      making the biocatalysts and are not in limitation. All parts and percentages of solids are
      by mass and of liquids and gases are by volume unless otherwise stated or is clear from
      the context.
[1601 In these examples, the following general procedure is used. The microorganisms for the
      biocatalyst are grown under suitable planktonic conditions in an aqueous medium for the
      microorganisms including the presence of nutrients and micronutrients. This medium is
      referred to herein as the "Culture Medium". The microorganisms used are as available
      and thus may be either substantially pure strains or mixed cultures. The cell density in
      the Culture Medium is determined by optical density. If the cell density of the Culture
      Medium is below that sought to make the biocatalyst, the Culture Medium is centrifuged
      or filtered to provide a denser, cell-containing fraction. A separately prepared aqueous
      solution of solubilized precursor is made (referred to herein as the "Polymer Solution").
      Any solid additive for the biocatalysts is added to the Polymer Solution in amounts that
      will provide the sought amount in the biocatalyst. The Polymer Solution is mixed with a
      mechanical stirrer to assure uniform dispersion of the components in the aqueous
      medium. Where necessary to solubilize the precursor, the Polymer Solution can be
      heated as appropriate. In some instances, a micronutrient solution is also added to the
      Polymer Solution.
[1611 Aliquots of each of the Culture Medium (or dense phase from centrifugation) and
      Polymer Solution are admixed under mechanical stirring at about 30'C to for a Precursor
      Solution. Where the microorganism is anaerobic, the Culture Medium and the mixing of
      the Culture Medium and Polymer Solution and all subsequent steps are maintained under
      anaerobic conditions by purging with nitrogen.
[1621 The Precursor Solution is then extruded through a perforated plate having orifices of
      about 0.75 millimeter in diameter to form droplets of about 3 millimeters in diameter.
      The droplets fall into a gently stirred coagulating bath of an aqueous boric acid solution
      having a pH of about 5. The biocatalyst is recovered from the coagulating bath and
                                                 56

      washed with distilled water. The biocatalyst, after washing, is placed in a liquid medium
      containing micronutrients and the substrate under suitable metabolic conditions for the
      microorganisms.
[163] Table I summarizes the examples. Table II sets forth the microorganisms used in the
      examples. Table III sets forth the hydrophilic polymer(s) that is used in the examples.
      Table IV sets forth the solid additive packages used in the examples.
                                                57

              I0A)   )'n                             0       )0
u,
          rnC
                               I        I
                                              un  un c)CA   CA
                         00         00        C:)         r     0 c'
            ~      p00
                                       Ln                 >
   CO~~~~                   - -r -- -n  -- -~  -n  -  -

1-    C n 00                        C> o 0 i -I'    00 V, - 0 CD c C;- tni C 0 '    0  1     ~  00
   00     ~0Mn   C1 -c-'0 0 ''0           C-  00I k - IC-    tn      00         o 00  mt V-t   00C-0 00 -inC- -- n
                                                >m          z
                     0-      I  l 1 -- 0
            00C<m

                  -~~C           ---                                CZ   6    Zl---6~                           -     ~C:)              ~
           ON  ~~          ~        ~      ~     O 000   1 lO Nr-C      n en"o   i   ~0   n00C              0i          n~-~O                ic      Ni
            -~~~                                                J)C n -e    iC i    nC n C nC       -    -  CiC i~-     -     -nC    -      2    tC
      N-~~
                      m- I'D "-C
                               ~ ini     n C 00 00 00 C11 rl It (1
                                          e -en~ t in Ci ) 7tn 00 (n
                                                                              mi en
                                                                               N--i
                                                                                        -n
                                                                                              'ON
                                                                                                      V')
                                                                                                       n   in
                                                                                                               "n Cn
                                                                                                                 Vn
                                                                                                                        --   ON,
                                                                                                                             mtN   n 0      C CI     1
                                                                                                                                                         ml~ - ~e
r-    m    0o 00                       Mo)             0 i          mnni cln-i             0               00 m '0ON                            "-n0 0-0
    -     C C '        e    00    -    -    0     00 Vn      r-     C7ONin VnCiinC                 00 ON       VCl     Vin    iC 0         00 00         V)i
00     1-r      C00                         N0r    - -V in       -      r 00N-0              000                           0      m    m    Q-)  n       m
00    ONC       -       le        m     In   I'D N- 00 ON,                    m     I- V'i en11i 0 r-- 00 ONl          CA en      "t   in) '0    r- 00    ON
inn    -)          0'0        \0     i          -N         -- 0    N 0    -     --       I--     -    000000000000m0m0mm0m0m

                      -                                            r ' 00 fLn C) C. Vfl c        r         -  0    O-C        -     ~
00
        (N   ~    m]
                         ~re   -  (f)
                                      C
                                       't   -n    C'Lf
                                                                   m~ "N mNe~( N( ( nr N~          - -    (N (N (N(N(    c     (N (N         m
ON                m00 a,   r-    LC) n              C' 00     7tV     CI    t7              k    00m10             V    CA      )CA0        '
(N) 00   'j-  C't   I   -  V)    V)   I'D            m" C P CIA O     ( NLI t) 't   ON (n    -        O (       N) 1    r -~     m'  0~ V 't0
    C '      ~'          V ) (Nr          -    0 0  C ',)N    ~' t    ~' 0  1    00  0    C ''(N                 e    t   k l    I' D  r -    0 ' D '

                  O   n-      O00                   m   C> CD    M   CAr~      00        m      m m 00    vf   vn     Vn         00 <=-        00 In    CA1
                                            Ln (N               C:) CDVn      C:) CDCDIn         CD c= C:) V) (N-(           -    ) t( (  N( C: (N)    v) (   (NV'
             t-- ,1  ON 00 C:)        00 '0 CA  00 00   r- VIn                      zj- (    -  (N   -    ON In       mf -       t--      L2n 00 -      '0c
                                                V- N)tI     t-In\           0        n' CAr-       m tf nn V'0       '0   00     ~t   ON lzt    M. In   "0
V') M01O 'TtCNO     CA a,                                    In    l     t-       :   -0    C    I--               I )                    c    InC  r   0
                  m 't    Vn 11c - N ON Inr                     Ln ONh-0  r-~   00 O      cN     CA   m- "7r    NIn In0        l      00    ON cNIn0
               CA (N   (N (N (N (N (N (N
                                                              m~   mf m~     m~   m    m       ~                 I'     f  f    ~~     1t t     I:T   l t   I  I In n

0 0                Z              6Z                                          6     ~                                 Z       '            6
             cic -00     110 00  V) I-     V') m    CIO m Vfl m9        .7r      00      - f V-      00 "i 00       mc        f Cci     00   'o
          ir~ciciic c c -         C Ai m i          mn m~       lr -t    mi     C, c I Mi V) 1rn N C A V            CA ic      ic
t--11     oCi            oC)         c    r-   c0,0          )c       0V      -  ON-   C'                 N                 m  Ln    N
                          L     00 00                   In  00   krfl                               V)             m          Q' )cici
     e 00r'-   ',o   ci                                                     r--         V-) ~   r    f   -c   -  C  -  O ~ c ~CA00 ci     1- 00 c 1
       't   Q) I'   - 00  ON           (1    m   "ic~ t   V'0 c
 -                                                               -  00 cN                 "   i   i    t   In~ 0  r- 00               m       L C

0     0  0  0C0)0 "  C
  kr)   V)l       Cl 00 C- Ci z

                                           0 0
           V)001     r1C
                          r                               ~L
       OZ                        g                             00
                                                   U0
k-. u-                 u-  w     u      U    u
                             U~U   U   ~               .u
                                         00                          0D0
    LN
    0z           z Z    Z
                                     V)I "Cr1  f 0- 00 ~0 Q' -    Cl m 7.V Dr 00 a',
                                                    'CIIr
          -~~'
                                 -I

                        7T     CD0
     Qc~     5   t
                                 00 c       r-r~     fU
                             *~~~~~,~ H 1   C~~ )~ t    ~ j.
                   ~u u
M   ,   - - 00 a,          m           0  )
  ?    I?       0?

                                000C   - ~;~          .       0                    0~
                        M  .                      0         .          .-.
                     W~           4
            CZ                            u    ~ -<                  ~      0   -~~   It-
                                         >>
                                                    00-0
oC U    ri
     o~      ~ _4 ~      b                C)      2C)
                           0 .0                                   r
 -~~                   -
                                                                              eHI
       C))
       u                                     M    c                     C
                                                                    ED
                                                        0C)                ~       CC     0
                                         -
                                         C5                   =                       5     C:)
                                             ~    0           0
               Cl7               m   +a4                        ,
                    *.              I                                             a)        7
         Call0                                                       CL         Cl
                                                  M00
                                    C7,C71

                                                   00
           .0                                      ~                                      C,3
                                                               1
                 -~~;:n                               0                  C)               pf
              M*                    t~b                          -  0  =           -o)0
                                                            -                           -r
                                                                    C,   b)
                                                                                a)
                           al0
                                                                                    00
                                              Mr                 r       mcz)C'                   -n
                                     ca U~                                                             ccd
         cn6 -,                          u
                                        _~C                      C,          oc               CA
                                                           M                                        00
               I       oI      I             ~~                                                    i
                                                                       -~-~6~                    -~L0
            T              7
                                                      -un  ~     o~
  -r                  U ~-   m       U'        0       uC     cz                     uO          U         -- 0
     _0~                                                                                          0U-.
          0
0  l           l                               0       0                                         40
                                                 C      lC
                                 -~       ~4  -~   ~       ~                                     00

            CZ\    ooV                                              bi )
4 --        >        15
     >  11
                           -7j   - ~~~~* -            D      a      o    0c
                                                  0 0
                        cn                    m
            0
           CL                   z                       -.
                -413~~                                                        C~
 I                                                               kn
       ci                                        Ln                         u
                               55          r-. L           t   g
                     Z                          Z

                                                               C,           CO                  45    -s         C          0
                                    _                              0                                                            >
                  cz                 '                ,~      c-              ~   mu              0      0
                                                                                                              C5O
    0~~-0-                             C:)~         .                             ~~
                                                                                                  >0I              -T
    LZ             M
                               4-~~                                     -u0.                               4
 In M LI)         0        V                                                    00000-I
       aj~0  u                 0                                      0000
                                                                                                             CA0    u 00
                                                                                          I-    CD                      It
                   On                             ;2C9                -                a   g(
                           v- -0                                                  0     Q                           v-I 0)
                                                                  CO'
                       Z       m~OC            5   CO.
                                                 in,    CO,0
                                                           E  CO        C,3 n
                                                                                                               ~         C6
                                                                                                                            LnC
                       GOO
                               E                    CO         m                                                            CO m
             0
            a)r
                              000                                  0        0                    o~              04:
                                                                                              0        0
                                          _~~~                           ~                           Cc
                -       ~
                       *~    ~ ~          CO     -0          ~     Ca
-6                                                                               Cjtr
                                                                                                             It-~~
                    0~C

                    -f                                       -0                         I
                        0z                                               on         n~     ~      0
                                                                                                              00
                                                                00
                   -m          bD            z             J~                         0       t   a
                                .0        >  Z                           0-
                                                                                            t     C
                                                       -~s                        a.                          C0
                                                                                               0~    ITI
                   00    C)        E  ~        ~             -0              0A
                                                           010
                                     -~                  0          ~C0
                                                                      l~o
                                                                                           U'-
                                          >              00                                              0.
    >                                                                   o60         o           C
u                                                                                            C,
    uC             Ln                    -4                                 -U
                                                                             C   -C"  -                     C
    x~ctCZ-I
   .0o                                     ~                                                00~
                                      -~          ;~'~                                                 00
  C)      C i-'0                     7:;         45      00        60
                         0Z -.                                                        $-          o0
              7:$0                                                       ~         ~ CIOV) L~     0
                                                                             tJ) N9
                                                                                 9
                       Hh                                                        N

                    ccCI                        ~~C                          ~C~                          U r#C
        C~~N
                     Cl)- U           ~     ~~C  z
                                                     MCC
      cz                                                                                                  u
                                                00                                       0
               00                                                    0_         uC             0
                                                                     00                        00         >
                        ~~                                                           !     u))O                   - )
      C      C)   ~   o       7;C
-/      00u
   C)                --                                                               c
                       u~.        -                                   ct>
                                                            O4
         OC)   Oc
                                                   0   < CZ        m  u )C         C)     a
                                                                           -       )  -)  v     -         m >)'
                           -)
                    --            0'z                                                  u    -     ,-         m~~o
                                                               Lnn         u CU                      -z
                                   0M
                                                                                                        7
             z                      0
                                    m   C--                          -S"
                                                                      ur
                                            0.-                      E                         -

                                                                             cca0
          ~f-~
           00                                                U-    L
                    00             u
                00                                                                    00
    ,
$ CIS     ~           c
                        >~
                           m
                                      .o~
                                                                    I
                              clCl
      cI3       -r:                0:           i-. If          I.
                                                            C,
                                                                0              '~~
                              unCl                     ~
               00                                        00           r nC
   0                Z. 0 Cl    0071,3
                                            0
                 **6                      r   6  00                        c0 0 M  U~ bO
          Z                  03                                                    M     7:
              8t                       r)C8P                       u    '
                                                                           c

                                    -~
                                       ~~)~   -~      ~                                     03
                                                                                            C)                7
      -~C,                                                   VD-     C                       OC
                            a)    7I0                                  Uu
                                                                                unO
                                       t.)     44                    6i             CC'4
                                P4   -n                          I                     -c.     r-    -cu
                                            4.1
                                                        ct                              C6n N
Cl-             C~00       U       CO U     uO                                      mOCOj~C
          *0       a)~                                                         OZ-                                    Ln
00                                         E-              Oc.   >C           f0          ~            0        2     c
             ~~0                  0c            "3                                                    C   ~~
                                                                     M~         C6       >- ct    .5       Z>      UO
                                                                    0 0
    -     Ct:                                       C)                    UUC           O    .C
                                                                                                                      C
                                                                                                                      En
                                                           C                       -oCO.                       Ci)    C
                                            Ln                   V)O
          Z~C                                                        th V)O~                           ~
                                                                          tic
                             CI)Ci)~~~~              C)      *cC                                                      n
                                               C             3O
               CZ          0     C;                                  cuCI
                                       CO          -           O                                      _c       I
                       It                  0r                01                                       020
                       rl0

  -2b
   c0      C',
        00  @              v
                 Z         z
N             _z
        L
      i        Mvcl       -i
           cn     U
                  cn<
                      rA(
                 C'    kC

[164] Each of the above biocatalysts exhibit phenotypic alterations and the biocatalysts have a
      stable population of microorganisms and do not generate any appreciable debris from
      metabolic activity.
      Bioconversions
                A.      Overview
[1651 As described above, the biocatalysts described herein can be used for a wide range of
      anabolic and catabolic bioconversion processes. Substrates may be one or more of
      normally a gas, liquid or solid. The substrates preferably are capable of being dissolved
      in the aqueous medium for contact with the biocatalyst although the biocatalysts
      described herein can find advantageous application in processes where the substrate has
      little, if any, solubility in water, especially in gas-phase metabolic processes enabled by
      the biocatalysts described herein. In the broad aspects the processes described herein
      pertain to the bioconversion of substrate to bioproduct, which processes comprise (a)
      contacting the substrate with biocatalyst described herein, and (b) maintaining the
      biocatalyst under metabolic conditions for a time sufficient to bioconvert at least a
      portion of the substrate to said bioproduct. Usually the bioproduct is recovered; however,
      in some aspects described herein, the bioproduct may intentionally be a chemical that is
      capable of being sequestered in the biocatalyst, e.g., where removing soluble metal
      compounds from water.
[1661 Substrates can be natural or xenobiotic substances in an organism (plant or animal) or can
      be obtained from other sources. Hence, substrates include, but are not limited to, those
      that can be, or can be derived from, plant, animal or fossil fuel sources, or can be
      produced by a chemical or industrial process. The biocatalysts can also be applicable to
      water supply or waste water clean-up operations where the substrate is one or more
      contaminants. The biocatalysts generate metabolites as a result of anabolic or catabolic
      activity and the metabolites may be primary or secondary metabolites. The processes
      described herein can be used to produce any type of anabolic metabolite.
[167] Bioproducts may be degradation products especially where contaminants are being
      removed from a fluid such as for water supply or waste water treatment. Such
      degradation bioproducts include, but are not limited to, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide,
                                                   76

      hydrogen, carbonyl sulfide, hydrogen sulfide, water, and salts such as carbonate,
      bicarbonate, sulfide, sulfite, sulfate, phosphate, phosphite, chloride, bromide, iodide, and
      borate salts of ammonium, or group 1 to 16 (IUPAC) metals such as sodium, potassium,
      manganese, magnesium, calcium, barium, iron, copper, cobalt, tin, selenium, radium,
      uranium, bismuth, cadmium, mercury, molybdenum and tungsten.
[168] Bioproducts may be one or more of aliphatic compounds and aromatic compounds
      including but not limited to hydrocarbons of up to 44 or 50 carbons, and hydrocarbons
      substituted with one or more of hydroxyl, acyl, carboxyl, amine, amide, halo, nitro,
      sulfonyl, and phosphino moieties, and hydrocarbons containing one or more hetero atoms
      including but not limited to, nitrogen, sulfur, oxygen, and phosphorus atoms. Examples
      of organic products as end products from metabolic processes are those listed in United
      States published patent application no. 2010/0279354 Al, especially as set forth in
      paragraphs 0129 through 0149. See also, United States published patent application no.
      2011/0165639 Al. Other bioproducts include p-toluate, terephthalate, terephthalic acid,
      aniline, putrescine, cyclohexanone, adipate, hexamethylenediamine (HMDA),
      6-aminocaproic acid, malate, acrylate, apidipic acid, methacrylic acid,
      3-hydroxypropionic acid (3HP), succinate, butadiene, propylene, caprolactam, fatty
      alcohols, fatty acids, glycerates, acrylic acid, acrylate esters, methacrylic acid,
      methacrylic acids, fucoidan, muconate, iodine, chlorophyll, carotenoid, calcium,
      magnesium, iron, sodium, potassium, and phosphate. The bioproduct may be a chemical
      that provides a biological activity with respect to a plant or animal or human. The
      biological activity can be one or more of a number of different activities such as antiviral,
      antibiotic, depressant, stimulant, growth promoters, hormone, insulin, reproductive,
      attractant, repellant, biocide, and the like. Examples of antibiotics include, but are not
      limited to, aminoglycosides (e.g., amikacin, gentamicin, kanamycin, neomycin,
      netilmicin, tobramycin., paromomycin); ansamycins (e.g., geldanamycin, herbimycin);
      carbacephem (loracarbef); carbapenems (e.g., ertapenem, doripenem,
      imipenem/cilastatin, meropenem); cephalosporins (first generation, e.g., cefadroxil,
      cefazolin, cefalotin, cefalexin); cephalosporins (second generation, e.g., cefaclor,
      cefamandole, cefoxitin, cefprozil, cefuroxime); cephalosporins (third generation, e.g.,
      cefixime, cefdinir, cefditoren, cefoperazone, cefotaxime, cefpodoxime, ceftazidime,
                                                 77

      ceftibuten, ceftizoxime, ceftriaxone); cephalosporins (fourth generation, e.g., cefepime);
      cephalosporins (fifth generation, e.g., ceftobiprole); glycopeptides (e.g., teicoplanin,
      vancomycin, telavancin); lincosamides (e.g., clindamycin, lincomycin); macrolides (e.g.,
      azithromycin, clarithromycin, dirithromycin, erythromycin, roxithromycin,
      troleandomycin, telithromycin spectinomycin); monobactams (e.g., aztreonam);
      nitrofurans (e.g., furazolidone, nitrofurantoin); penicillins (e.g., amoxicillin, ampicillin,
      azlocillin, carbenicillin, cloxacillin, dicloxacillin, flucloxacillin, mezlocillin, methicillin,
      nafcillin, oxacillin, penicillin G, penicillin V, piperacillin, temocillin, ticarcillin);
      penicillin combinations (e.g., amoxicillin/clavulanate, ampicillin/sulbactam,
      piperacillin/tazobactam, ticarcillin/clavulanate); polypeptides (e.g., bacitracin, colistin,
      polymyxin B); quinolones (e.g., ciprofloxacin, enoxacin, gatifloxacin, levofloxacin,
      lomefloxacin, moxifloxacin, nalidixic acid, norfloxacin, ofloxacin, trovafloxacin,
      grepafloxacin, sparfloxacin, temafloxacin); sulfonamides (e.g., mafenide;
      sulfonamidochrysoidine, sulfacetamide, sulfadiazine, silver sulfadiazine, sulfamethizole,
      sulfamethoxazole, sulfanilimide, sulfasalazine, sulfisoxazole, trimethoprim,
      trimethoprim-Sulfamethoxazole (Co-trimoxazole) (TMP-SMX); tetracyclines (e.g.,
      demeclocycline, doxycycline, minocycline, oxytetracycline, tetracycline); drugs against
      mycobacteria (e.g., clofazimine, dapsone, capreomycin, cycloserine, ethambutol,
      ethionamide, isoniazid, pyrazinamide, rifampin, rifabutin, rifapentine, streptomycin) and
      others (e.g., arsphenamine, chloramphenicol, fosfomycin, fusidic acid, linezolid,
      metronidazole, mupirocin, platensimycin, luinupristin/dalfopristin, rifaximin,
      thiamphenicol, tinidazole).
[169] Preferably an anabolic bioproduct is at least one of an oxygenated organic compound and
      hydrocarbon of up to about 100, often up to about 50, carbon atoms. Most preferred
      oxygenated organic product includes methanol, ethanol, acetic acid, n-propanol,
      i-propanol, propionic acid, n-butanol, i-butanol, butyric acid, acetone, and methyl ethyl
      ketone.
[170] Examples of anabolic or catabolic processes suitable to be practiced by the processes
      described herein include, but are not limited to:
                                                  78

*       Syngas, i.e., gas containing carbon monoxide and optionally hydrogen, for
conversion to oxygenated organic product and hydrocarbons. In typical prior art
processes for the conversion of syngas to oxygenated organic product, a limiting
factor on productivity is the mass transfer of carbon monoxide and hydrogen from
the gas phase into the liquid phase of the aqueous medium. By using the
biocatalysts described herein for syngas bioconversion, mass transfer can be
enhanced.
*       Carbon dioxide-containing gases for conversion to oxygenated organic
product and hydrocarbons. The anabolic conversion may be effected by algae,
cyanobacteria, or other photo activated microorganisms, e.g., to produce alcohols,
biodiesel, and like. Other bioconversion processes using carbon dioxide to
produce bioproducts include those to make organic acids and esters and diacids
and diesters such as succinic acid and lactic acid.
*       Combustion gases, e.g., from the disposal of solid wastes or generation of
energy, where the substrate comprises contaminants sought to be removed from
the gases such as oxygenated halides, sulfoxy moieties, nitrogen oxides, heavy
metal compounds and the like.
*       Industrial process waste gases containing, for instance, volatile organic
compounds; solvents such as chlorine containing solvents, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxygenates, and the like; ammonia or volatile amines; mercaptans and other
sulfur containing compounds; nitrogen oxides; and the like. The industrial
process waste gases may be air-based, such as exhaust from painting operations,
or maybe devoid of air such as purge or waste gases. The ability to subject these
substrates to catabolic degradation can often eliminate the necessity for a thermal
oxidation unit operation resulting in both capital and energy savings as often
natural gas or other fuel is required to maintain temperature for the thermal
oxidation unit.
*       Natural gas (including, but not limited to, gas recovered by underground
fracturing processes, i.e., frac gas) wherein the substrate for catabolic processing
                                   79

              may be one or more of oxygenates, such as nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides;
              perchlorates; sulfides, ammonia; mercaptans; and the like.
              *       Nitrates, perchlorates, taste and odor compounds, organics, chlorinated
              hydrocarbons, and the like removal from the water. The source of the water may
              be from a water treatment facility, ground sources, surface sources, municipal
              waste processing, and industrial waste water. The water stream may be derived
              from other bioconversion processes where substrate is not fully consumed, such
              as in corn ethanol processes.
              *       Carbohydrate, including, but not limited to cellulose, hemicellulose,
              starches, and sugars for conversion to oxygenated organic product and
              hydrocarbons.
              0       Oxyanions, hydroxyls or soluble salts of sulfur, phosphorus, selenium,
              tungsten, molybdenum, bismuth, strontium, cadmium, chromium, titanium,
              nickel, iron, zinc, copper, arsenic, vanadium, uranium, radium, manganese,
              germanium, indium, antimony mercury, and rare earth metals for removal from
              water by bioconversion and sequestration.
[1711 The metabolic processes using the biocatalysts may be conducted in any suitable manner
      employing metabolic conditions sufficient for the biocatalyst to convert the substrate to
      the sought bioproduct. Metabolic conditions include conditions of temperature, pressure,
      oxygenation, pH, and nutrients (including micronutrients) and additives required or
      desired for the microorganisms in the biocatalyst. Due to the microenvironments and
      phenotypic alterations associated with the biocatalysts described herein, often a broader
      range of metabolic conditions can be effectively used than those suitable for planktonic
      microorganisms. Any suitable bioreactor system may be used including Typical
      Bioreactor Systems.
[172] The metabolic processes using the biocatalysts described herein provide sufficient water
      to the biocatalyst to maintain the biocatalyst hydrated. The bioconversion processes may
      involve direct contact with gas containing substrate or in contact with a liquid medium,
      often an aqueous medium. Water for this aqueous medium may be provided from any
      suitable source including, but not limited to, tap water, demineralized water, distilled
                                                 80

      water, and process or waste water streams. The aqueous medium can contain nutrients
      and additives such as co-metabolites, potentiators, enhancers, inducers growth promoters,
      buffers, antibiotics, vitamins, minerals, nitrogen sources, and sulfur sources as is known
      in the art. If desired, an antifoam agent may be used in the aqueous medium. In some
      instances, where additives are desired or required for the metabolic process, the
      biocatalysts described herein exhibit at least equivalent bioconversion activity at a lesser
      concentration of such additives as compared to a planktonic, free-suspension system, all
      else being substantially the same.
[173]  The bioreactor may or may not be sterilized prior to introducing the aqueous medium.
      Due to the use of biocatalysts containing significant populations of microorganisms,
      bioreactors can have a rapid start-up time.
[174] The processes may be conducted with all carbon requirements being provided in the
      aqueous medium or on a carbon source deficient basis. Where operating in a carbon
      source deficiency, the aqueous medium often provides at least about 50, frequently at
      least about 75, say, 80 to less than 100, mass percent on a carbon basis of the carbon
      nutrient. In some instances polysaccharide is included in the biocatalyst where carbon
      source deficiency operations are anticipated. The carbon source deficiency may occur
      intermittently or continuously during the metabolic process.
[175] The bioconversion processes may be optimized to achieve one or more objectives. For
      instance, the processes may be designed to provide high conversions of substrate to
      bioproduct or may be designed to balance capital and energy costs against conversion to
      bioproduct. As the biocatalysts are highly hydrated, generally their density is close to
      that of water. Accordingly, with fluidized bed reactor designs using an aqueous feed
      stream, energy consumption is lower than that where higher density supports are used. In
      some instances where the metabolic processes generate a gas, e.g., in the conversion of
      sugars to alkanols or in the bioconversion of nitrate anion to nitrogen gas, gas can
      accumulate in the biocatalyst to increase buoyancy. This accumulated gas can reduce the
      energy consumption for a fluid bed operation and can facilitate the use of other bioreactor
      designs such as jet loop bioreactors.
                                                81

[176] The bioproduct may be recovered from the aqueous medium in any suitable manner
      including the Typical Separation Techniques.
               B.    Metabolic Shift
[1771 In a preferred embodiment described herein, a phenotypic alteration occurs that results in
      a metabolic shift of the microorganisms in the biocatalysts. The metabolic shift can
      occur in each of anabolic and catabolic bioconversions. The metabolic shift results in
      less energy being consumed by the microorganisms for growth. Accordingly, where a
      substrate is used for both bioconversion to the bioproduct and for energy by the
      microorganisms, the metabolic shift enhances the bioconversion efficiency to the
      bioproduct. An additional type of metabolic shift is termed a carbon flow shift. A carbon
      flow shift occurs when a microorganism can produce more than one bioproduct from a
      substrate and the relative amounts of the bioproducts are altered. For instance, the
      fermentation of sugars by yeasts produce both ethanol and acetate anion. A carbon fow
      shift occurs when, e.g., the ratio of ethanol to acetate anion is increased. Similarly, in the
      production of butanol from sugars using Clostridiaacetobutyricum, ethanol and acetone
      are co-produced and a carbon flow shift increases the ratio of butanol produced. A
      metabolic shift can be of significant economic benefit, especially in large bioconversion
      facilities and where the cost of the substrate is material such as where syngas or
      carbohydrate is the substrate. In metabolic systems where a carbon source needs to be
      provided to maintain the microorganisms, the metabolic shift beneficially reduces the
      amount of the carbon source provided to maintain a given rate of bioproduct production.
[1781 In more preferred embodiments pertaining to anabolic bioconversions of a
      carbon-containing substrate to bioproduct, at least about 95, preferably at least about 98,
      percent of the theoretical maximum bioconversion of the substrate to the sought
      bioproduct is achieved. For example, in the bioconversion of glucose to ethanol, carbon
      dioxide and ethanol are produced. The amount of ethanol produced as compared with the
      theoretical amount that would be produced if all the sugar were bioconverted to ethanol
      and carbon dioxide produced in the ethanol production pathway. Similarly, in the
      bioconversion of carbon monoxide, the theoretical maximum conversion to ethanol is that
                                                 82

      6 moles of carbon monoxide produce 1 mole of ethanol and 4 moles of carbon dioxide
      (carbon dioxide, of course, can be bioconverted to ethanol in the presence of hydrogen).
[179] In addition to a metabolic shift, the biocatalysts described herein undertake a cryptic
      growth which is believed to be enabled by phenotypic alterations and communication
      among the microorganisms. The cryptic growth aids in providing a biocatalyst that does
      not generate solid debris. Nevertheless, the ability of the biocatalysts described herein to
      maintain a stable population of microorganisms over extended periods of time evidences
      that a phenotypic metabolic shift occurs in the population of microorganisms.
              C.       Enhanced bioconversion
[180] In another preferred aspect described herein, the biocatalysts exhibit an enhanced rate of
      bioconversion as compared to that of planktonic microorganisms having the same cell
      density per unit volume of bioreactor, all else being substantially the same. This aspect
      described herein provides for improved anabolic and catabolic bioconversion processes
      due to the greater bioactivity. In some instances, the microorganisms may undergo a
      phenotypic alteration such that a bioconversion is observed that does not occur in
      planktonic growth.
[181] Moreover, since often higher cell densities can be provided by the biocatalysts described
      herein than with planktonic growth in free suspension or supported biocatalysts, even
      greater increases in bioconversion activity can be obtained per unit volume of bioreactor
      or per given unit of hydraulic retention time. Hence, reduced residence times for either
      batch or continuous processing can be achieved per unit of bioconversion.
[1821 The use of the biocatalysts described herein also enables substrate in feed streams to be
      reduced to very low concentrations and also enables very low concentrations of substrate
      to be metabolically bioconverted. In some applications it is desired for a bioconversion
      process to reduce a substrate to very low concentrations, e.g., for efficient use of the
      substrate or such that the bioconversion effluent need not be further treated to remove the
      substrate. Examples of the latter are municipal wastewater where the effluent should
      contain little, if any, biodegradable carbon compounds, and reducing toxic materials such
      as 1,4-dioxane, N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) and perchlorate anion and endocrine
      disrupters contained in water to concentrations of parts per billion or less. Other
                                                83

      examples are components that affect taste and odor in drinking water affected by algal
      blooms such as methylisoboreal (MIB) and geosmin that may only be present in
      micro-concentrations. Thus, one embodiment of processes described herein pertains to
      reducing the concentration of ultra-low contaminants (contaminants in a concentration
      less than about 50 micrograms per liter) in a water stream comprising:
              a.       continuously passing said water stream to a bioreactor, said bioreactor
              being maintained at metabolic conditions including the presence of biocatalyst
              described herein containing microorganisms capable of bioconversion of said
              ultra-low contaminants irreversibly retaining therein;
              b.       contacting said water stream with said biocatalyst for a time sufficient to
              reduce the concentration of said ultra-low contaminants; and
              c.      withdrawing from said bioreactor a treated water stream having a reduced
              concentration of said ultra-low contaminants.
[1831 Preferably, each of the ultra-low contaminants is present in a concentration in the water
      stream the passed to the bioreactor in an amount of at least about 10, say at least about
      50, nanograms per liter (ng/L) and less than about 50, often less than about 20,
      micrograms per liter (mcg/L). Preferably at least about 50, and sometimes at least about
      80 or 90, percent of the contaminant in the water stream is bioconverted.
[1841 The interior microenviromnents and phenotypic changes in the biocatalysts described
      herein, in another preferred aspect described is the enhanced, simultaneous bioconversion
      of two or more substrates by a single microorganism species. Usually microorganisms
      prefer or metabolize one substrate over another in a phenomenon known as diauxie. In
      accordance with this aspect described herein, the bioconversion rate of the less preferred
      substrate is less depressed at the same mole ratio of more preferred to less preferred
      substrate than that in a planktonic process using the same microorganism and cell density
      and substantially the same process conditions. One example of diauxie is the treatment
      of water containing nitrate and perchlorate anions where the nitrate anions are the
      preferred substrate.
                                                 84

[185] The biocatalysts described herein contain microenvironments that can possess different
      conditions than those external to the biocatalyst. Thus, microenvironments in the interior
      of the biocatalysts enable both aerobic and anaerobic bioconversion processes to occur,
      even using the same microorganism. Thus, for instance, ammonium cation can be
      oxidized and the resulting nitrate anion reduces to nitrogen in an aerobic aqueous
      medium. The metabolic conditions in a given microenvironment may be affected by
      other metabolic activity within the biocatalysts. For instance, metabolizing an electron
      donor such as a carbon source, may consume oxygen and thus provide a reducing
      environment.
[186] The biocatalysts can serve to provide a self-modulation and enable metabolic activity that
      would not be possible in a planktonic growth in a free suspension. This phenomenon is
      readily appreciated for redox type bioconversions. Consequently, metabolic processes
      that are reductions of substrates may proceed in the presence of oxygen or oxidizing
      components in an aqueous medium surrounding the biocatalyst. By way of example, and
      not in limitation, the biocatalysts can be used for catabolysis of hydrocarbons, such as
      aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons of I to 50 or more carbons, including alkanes,
      alkenes, and alkynes, and aromatics such as benzene, toluene and xylene; ethers, ketones,
      aldehydes, alcohols, carboxylic acids and esters of I to 50 or more carbons; halogenated
      hydrocarbons such as brominated and chlorinated hydrocarbons including
      perchloroethylene, dichloroethylene, vinyl chloride, trichloroethane, trichloroethylene,
      methylene chloride, chloroform, carbon tetrachloride and polychlorinated biphenyls
      (PCB's), and soluble metal and semi-metal compounds including nitrates, nitrites,
      sulfates, sulfites, phosphates, phosphites, and other metalates.
               D.      Enhanced toxin tolerance
[1871 Surprisingly, the biocatalysts described herein exhibit an increased tolerance to toxins.
      While not wishing to be limited to theory, it is believed that some potential reasons for
      this increased tolerance, in addition to providing an environment where the
      microorganisms are metabolically retained and physically protected, could reside in the
      fact that the biocatalyst provides an environment where the microorganisms have time to
      react to the presence of the toxins to develop an internal resistance; the ability of the
                                                85

      microorganisms to have increased cell wall stability and cell geometric stability; and the
      communication among the population of microorganisms to enhance the ability of the
      community to react and develop resistance mechanisms to the toxins. The exhibited
      tolerance is greater than that exhibited by planktonic microorganisms and sometimes is
      greater than that exhibited by conventional immobilized biofilms. Hence, a phenotypic
      shift by the microorganisms and their community may also contribute to the enhanced
      tolerance to toxins.
[1881 In some processes, especially anabolic processes, the bioconversion product (bioproduct)
      itself is toxic to the microorganisms or a co-product or by-product is produced that is
      toxic to the microorganisms. For example, the bioconversion of sugars to ethanol with
      yeast in a free cell, batch fermentation bioreactor is typically limited to a concentration of
      ethanol of about 15 percent. With the bioproduction of isobutanol or n-butanol from
      sugars, the maximum fermentation broth concentration is generally about 2.5 percent.
      Thus, the titer of bioproduct in the fermentation broth has to be limited to avoid
      deleterious concentrations of bioproduct, and the energy required for separation of the
      bioproduct increases. Moreover, with batch processes, the limitation on titer results in
      shorter cycle times. Hence, increased costs per unit volume of bioproduct are incurred
      including those associated with downtime of the bioreactor, cleaning of the bioreactor
      and replacement of the population of microorganisms. The increased resistance of the
      microorganisms to toxicity in accordance with the processes described herein enables
      higher concentrations of bioproduct to be produced and, for batch fermentation processes,
      reduces the frequency of shutdowns.
[1891 In other processes, toxins may be included as contaminants in the feedstocks providing
      the substrate to the microorganisms. Although pretreating feedstocks to reduce the
      concentration of these toxins to tolerable levels can be done, such pretreatment results in
      added capital and operating costs. One particularly attractive application for the
      biocatalysts described herein is in treating brackish or saline water or brine to metabolize
      other components in the water. The water may be from surface, ground or industrial
      sources. Examples of components that may require degradation in such waters include,
      but are not limited to nitrates, nitrites. chlorates, perchlorates, halogenated organics
      including but not limited to chlorinated solvents and PCB's, hydrocarbons including but
                                                   86

      not limited to aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons and oxygenated hydrocarbons such as
       1,4-dioxane, carboxylic acids, ethers, ketones and aldehydes.
[190] In some instances, the substrate itself may have an adverse effect on the microorganisms
      when present in too high of a concentration. Reducing the concentration of the substrate,
      e.g., by dilution, adds to the capital and operating costs of the metabolic process.
      Examples of substrates that can be toxic include carbon monoxide, hydrogen cyanide,
      hydrogen sulfide, permanganate, and oxygenated organic compounds where used to make
      other bioproducts.
[191] Another toxin affecting microorganisms includes viruses, or phage. Treatment of
      aqueous media suffering from phage is problematic. The bioreactor can be emptied,
      sterilized, and then repopulated which incurs significant downtime as well as operating
      expense. In some instances, additives can be provided to the aqueous media as antiviral
      agents. This again increases the costs of the metabolic process.
[192] In the broad aspects, the processes for bioconverting a substrate contained in an aqueous
      medium to bioproduct under bioconversion conditions including the presence of
      microorganisms for said bioconversion, wherein the aqueous medium contains at least
      one toxin in an amount sufficient to have a deleterious effect if said microorganisms were
      freely suspended in said aqueous medium under said bioconversion conditions, comprise
      attenuating the effect of the toxin by using a biocatalyst described herein in the
      bioconversion process.
[193] In some instances, the rate of bioconversion of the substrate to bioproduct is not
      significantly reduced, all other parameters remaining the same, when the concentration of
      bioproduct in the fermentation broth is about 20, frequently about 30, say about 50, or
      more percent greater than that achievable using a free cell suspension of the
      microorganism. Where used to bioconvert sugar to ethanol, ethanol concentrations in the
      fermentation broth of 20 mass percent or more can often be achieved. For the
      bioconversion of sugar to isobutanol or n-butanol, bioproduct concentration in the
      fermentation broth of at least about 3, and sometimes between about 3.5 and 5 or more
      mass percent, can be achieved.
                                                 87

[194] In many instances, the microorganisms are able to withstand concentrations of the toxins
      at least about 20, and preferably at least about 30, percent greater than said
      microorganisms in free suspension in said aqueous medium. In many instances, the
      increased tolerance of the processes to the presence of toxins can be observed using a
      Batch Toxin Tolerance Test (BTT Test) defined above. The processes described herein
      exhibit in a BTT Test a bioconversion of at least about 20 percent, preferably at least
      about 30 or 50 percent, greater than that using the free suspension. In some instances the
      microorganisms are able to withstand concentrations of the toxins at least about 10, and
      preferably at least about 20, percent greater than said microorganisms in the form of a
      biofilm on a bone char support, all other conditions being the same.
[195] In many instances, even when the concentrations of the chemicals reaches levels where
      the bioconversion rate exhibited by the biocatalyst is materially affected, the processes
      described herein tend to provide protection to at least a portion of the microorganisms
      metabolically retained in the biocatalyst. Thus, upon the termination of the excursion
      into regimes where the microorganisms are adversely affected, bioconversion activity
      recommences evidencing survival of at least a portion of the population of the
      microorganisms providing the sought metabolism. Where a portion of the population is
      adversely affected during the excursion, the population of the microorganisms in the
      biocatalyst can increase after the termination of the excursion to a steady-state level.
[1961 In examples 205 to 207 a continuous stirred tank bioreactor having a working volume of
      7 liters is used for batch experiments. The bioreactor is provided with controls to
      maintain temperature. The pH of the fermentation broth is controlled, typically to a pH
      of about 5. The fermentations are conducted in a batch mode. A 1000 milliliter solution
      of 223 grams of sugar in the form of honey per liter is charged to the batch bioreactor.
      The honey has a composition of about 38 mass percent fructose, 31 mass percent glucose,
      7.31 mass percent maltose, 1.3 mass percent sucrose, 1.5 mass percent higher sugars and
      about 17 percent water with the balance being non-sugar components. The fermentations
      are conducted at about 300 to 35'C. In all examples, the same strain of Saccharomyces
      cerevisiae is used. The biocatalyst used is substantially that prepared in accordance with
      Example 25 has a Hydration Expansion Volume of about 70,000. The biocatalyst is
                                                 88

      contacted with dilute aqueous ethanol (varying between about 5 and 10 mass percent) for
      about two days prior to use.
      Example 205
[1971 In this example, the batch bioreactor is used, and industrial grade ethanol is added to the
      fermentation broth to provide a 20 mass percent concentration of ethanol. A run uses a
      free suspension of S. cerevisiae to provide about 150 grams of yeast per liter, and another
      run uses sufficient biocatalyst to provide about 150 grams of yeast per liter. After 72
      hours under fermentation conditions, the fermentation broth containing the free
      suspension yields no ethanol whereas the biocatalyst produces about 75 percent of the
      amount of ethanol theoretically possible. In the absence of the added ethanol, the free
      suspension provides after 72 hours a production of ethanol that is about 78 percent of the
      amount of ethanol theoretically possible. The biocatalyst produces an amount of ethanol
      between about 96 and 98 percent of that theoretically possible. The high conversion
      evidences that a metabolic shift occurs.
      Example 206
[198] In this example, for a period of about 24 hours, the biocatalyst is exposed to a 20 percent
      by mass aqueous ethanol solution. The biocatalyst is then washed and then used in the
      batch bioreactor to provide a theoretical yeast content of about 150 grams per liter. After
      72 hours, the free cell batch reaction does not generate any ethanol. The batch reaction
      using the biocatalyst yields about 98 percent of the ethanol theoretically possible.
      Example 207
[1991 In this example the amount of honey added to the fermentation broth is increased to
      provide about 288 grams per liter of sugar. Several batch reactions are conducted using
      about 150 grams per liter of S. cerevisiae contained in biocatalyst. After 72 hours, the
      batch reactions using the biocatalyst yields between about 96 and 99 percent of the
      ethanol theoretically possible.
      Example 208
[2001 This example demonstrates the resistance of Rhodococcus to various concentrations of
      ethanol where the microorganism is in a biocatalyst described herein. Approximately 20
                                                89

      grams of biocatalyst substantially as prepared in example 169 are placed in a serum bottle
      for each batch test. A total of 7 serum bottles are prepared. About 80 milliliters of
      solution containing ethanol are placed in each serum bottle. The solution for each bottle
      is at a different ethanol concentration. Each solution is prepared using absolute ethanol
      and the various solutions contain 0, 10, 20, 35, 50, 80 and 100 volume percent ethanol.
      The contact between the solution and the biocatalyst is at room temperature (about 22"C)
      for 24 hours. After which time, the biocatalyst in each serum bottle is washed. The
      biocatalyst from each serum bottle is evaluated for oxygen up-take, thereby indicating the
      viability of the microorganisms. This evaluation is conducted by placing the biocatalyst
      in a 100 milliliter flask and pouring about 80 milliliters of distilled water that has been
      aerated to saturation into the flask. Oxygen probe measurements are taken each 15
      minutes. All biocatalysts survived the immersion in ethanol and in comparison to the
      control with no ethanol, all substantially recovered their bioactivities as evidenced by
      oxygen up-take. In a control experiment, no microorganisms survive the addition of
      5 volume percent ethanol to a free suspension containing the microorganisms.
                 .     In-situ sterilization
[201] It may be desired to add toxins to the medium containing the microorganisms to control
      the population of undesired microorganisms that may compete for nutrients or may
      provide undesired metabolites. In some processes, such as the conversion of corn sugar
      to ethanol, the presence of adventitious or undesirable microorganisms is addressed by
      sterilization of batch reactors at the conclusion of each run. Continuous bioconversion
      processes, however, are not so amenable to frequent sterilization. Hence, continuous
      processes are typically monitored for undesired metabolites, or are monitored for the
      productivity of the sought bioproduct, and shut down for sterilization when required.
[2021 Removal of the adventitious microorganisms from water or other feedstock for catabolic
      or anabolic processes can be done, however, with increased capital and operating costs.
      The alternative is to periodically replace and replenish the sought microorganisms in the
      bioreactor used for the continuous processes. Another alternative is disclosed by Sumner,
      et al., in United States Published Patent Application 20090087897, where a stabilized
                                                 90

      chlorine dioxide is added preventatively in an amount effective to prevent growth of
      bacteria to a fermentation processes for making ethanol.
[203] The biocatalysts described herein enable controlling the presence of contaminating
      microorganisms due to the enhanced toxin resistance exhibited by the biocatalysts. These
      processes pertain to bioconverting a substrate contained in an aqueous medium to
      bioproduct under metabolic conditions including the presence of microorganisms for said
      bioconversion, wherein a toxin is provided to the aqueous medium in an amount
      sufficient to control contaminating microorganisms, wherein the microorganisms are
      retained in a biocatalyst described herein.
[2041 The toxin used to control the contaminating microorganisms may be a bacteriostatic
      agent, a bactericidal agent or a bacteriolytic agent. Preferably the toxin is a disinfecting
      agent, and most preferably is an oxidizing agent. These preferred disinfecting agents are
      relatively inexpensive and include hydrogen peroxide, peracetic acid, aldehydes
      (especially glutaraldehyde and o-phthalaldehyde), ozone, and hypochlorite. The
      introduction of the toxin into the aqueous medium may occur in response to an undesired
      buildup of the population of contaminating microorganisms, or may be on a periodic
      schedule or continuously to control the build-up of contaminating microorganisms. The
      concentration of disinfecting agent added to the aqueous medium should be sufficient to
      either reduce or maintain the population of the contaminating microorganisms at a
      desired level.
[205] Where hydrogen peroxide is the sterilizing agent, is usually introduced such that it is
      present in the aqueous medium in a concentration of between about 0.1 to about 5,
      preferably 0.5 to 3, mass percent. Where peracetic acid is used is the sterilizing agent,
      the amount introduced into the aqueous medium is generally sufficient to provide a
      concentration between about 0.1 to about 3, preferably 0.2 to 2, mass percent.
      Glutaraldehyde and o-phthalaldehyde are often used to provide a concentration in the
      aqueous medium of between about 0.01 to about 0.5 mass percent. Ozone can be
      bubbled through the aqueous medium in order to effect the reduction in the population of
      contaminating microorganisms. Hypochlorite anion is typically available as an aqueous
                                                91

      solution of sodium hypochlorite. Typically the concentration of hypochlorite anion in the
      aqueous medium is between about 0.1 to 3, say, between about 0.2 to 2, mass percent.
[206] The duration of the presence of the sterilizing agent in the aqueous medium should be
      sufficient in order to effect the desired reduction of the population of the contaminating
      microorganisms. In one embodiment a concentration of the sterilizing agent may be
      maintained by continuous basis in the aqueous medium and thus act as a preventative to
      the build-up of a population of contaminating microorganisms. In other preferred
      embodiments, the sterilizing agent is added intermittently when needed to control the
      population of the contaminating microorganisms. In the latter case, the duration of the
      maintenance of microorganism-killing concentrations of the sterilizing agent is typically
      less than about 20, and is often in the range of, 0.1 to 10, hours.
[207] The control of the population of the contaminating microorganisms is most
      advantageously conducted under the same conditions that the metabolic process would be
      conducted. If desired, it is possible to use conditions different than those that would
      normally be used for the metabolic process provided that the conditions are not unduly
      deleterious to the microorganisms contained in the biocatalyst. Conditions typically
      include temperatures in the range of between about 5' to 600 C., and a pH the range of
      between about 5.0 and 8.5, say, 6 to 8. Preferably, the presence of nutrients and other
      adjuvants remain a concentration in the aqueous medium that substantially same as used
      for the bioconversion process.
      Example 209
[2081 In this example water containing about 50 parts per million mass of nitrate anion per liter
      is continuously passed to a bioreactor containing biocatalyst having Paracoccus
      denitrificansATCC@ 17741 retained in the interior. The biocatalyst is prepared
      substantially as set forth in Example 101 and has a Hydration Expansion Volume of
      about 70,000. The biocatalyst provides about 150 grams of microorganism per liter in the
      bioreactor. The hydraulic residence time is about 600 minutes and the reactor is operated
      at about 25'C. The effluent water contains less than about 1 part per million mass of
      nitrate anion per liter. Sodium hypochlorite is added to the water to provide a
      concentration of 0.5 gram per liter, and sodium acetate is added at an amount
                                                 92

      approximately equivalent to 1.1 times the theoretical demand. The bioreactor is operated
      for 2 hours with this composition. The effluent water continues to contain less than about
      5 parts per million mass of nitrate anion per liter. In additional runs, the biocatalyst is
      immersed for 24 hours at about 25'C in an aqueous solution containing sodium
      hypochlorite at concentrations of 1.0 and 2.0 grams per liter before being used in the
      apparatus. These concentrations of sodium hypochlorite are considered lethal to
      planktonic microorganisms in free suspension as shown by a control experiment.
[2091 After immersion in the 1.0% concentration solution, the performance of the
      microorganisms is not affected and the water effluent continues to contain less than about
       1 parts per million mass of nitrate anion per liter. Biocatalyst is removed and again
      immersed in the 1.0% solution for 24 hours. After the second immersion in the 1.0%
      concentration solution, the perfonnance of the microorganisms is not affected and the
      water effluent continues to contain less than about 1 parts per million mass of nitrate
      anion per liter.
[210] After immersion in the 2.0% concentration solution, the performance of the
      microorganisms is reduced to about 62 percent and the water effluent contains less than
      about 20 parts per million mass of nitrate anion per liter. Biocatalyst is removed and
      again immersed in the 2.0% solution for 24 hours. After the second immersion in the
      2.0% concentration solution, the performance of the microorganisms is improved, and the
      water effluent contains less than about 4 parts per million mass of nitrate anion per liter.
               F.      Strain stability
[2111 In preferred embodiments, the biocatalysts described herein essentially contain in their
      interiors a single strain of microorganisms, i.e., are axenic. This provides for consistency
      in bioconversion performance, including bioconversion rate and selectivity, and thereby
      enhances the viability of commercial-scale processes. In addition, having a single strain
      of microorganism frequently enhances sociobiological behavior such as horizontal gene
      transfer, production of public goods, altruistic behaviors, taking up DNA of lysed
      same-strain cells, and the like, all of which can be beneficial to the biocatalyst and its
      performance.
                                                 93

[212] Whether a metabolic process uses a wild state or modified wild state or genetically
      modified microorganism, several concerns exist including that automutation of the strain
      of microorganisms could lead to an adverse change in the population of microorganisms.
      Although automutation may occur inherently, the sociobiological behavior of the
      microorganisms, which behavior is enhanced in the biocatalysts described herein, can
      mitigate or prevent untoward genotypic changes to the population. Additionally, in that
      the phenotypic changes of the microorganisms in the biocatalysts described herein
      usually result in a metabolic shift, the rate of reproduction is reduced. Hence adverse
      automutation is more readily modulated by the population of microorganisms. Further,
      the biocatalysts tend to mitigate external inputs that may induce undesired automutations.
[213] The biocatalysts described herein are made with a high concentration of microorganisms,
      often substantially at the steady-state density of the microorganisms in the biocatalyst.
      Numerous advantages follow from this method. First, the essentially fully active
      biocatalysts can be made under conditions that assure strain purity. Second, scale-up is
      simplified as a plurality of batches can be made and then accumulated in a volume
      required for a commercial-scale bioreactor. Quality checks can be made with each batch.
      Third, the population of microorganisms in the biocatalyst can be sufficiently
      concentrated that sociobiological behaviors that prevent untoward automutation exist.
      Fourth, as the microorganisms are substantially irreversibly retained in the interior of the
      biocatalyst, any contaminating microorganisms would be constrained to a biocatalyst and
      not adversely affect the microorganisms in the other biocatalysts. Fifth, within a single
      biocatalyst structure, any contaminating microorganism will tend to be metabolically
      retained in a region with a constrained population, and the community of the intended
      strain of microorganisms is believed to communicate or interact to enhance competitive
      strength against invading microorganisms (territorial competitiveness) and to maintain
      strain uniformity. Sixth, the exo-network of the microorganisms in the biocatalysts
      facilitates horizontal gene transfer. And seventh, the biocatalysts provide a
      microenvironment that tends to assure stable microbial constituency.
[214] In some embodiments the sought microorganism is less robust, and indeed, some, such as
      syntrophic microorganisms, may only be able to thrive in relationship with another
      microorganism and are typically difficult to obtain and maintain a pure culture even
                                                 94

      though the syntrophic microorganism may have the ability to effect the sought
      bioconversion to bioproduct. In some instances, the microorganisms in the biocatalyst
      may undergo adaptation and potential genetic alteration during use in a metabolic
      process. The communication and potential horizontal gene transfer provided by the
      biocatalysts described herein and the exo-network facilitates uniformity of the
      microorganism strain within the biocatalysts.
              G.      Stasis capability
[215] The biocatalysts described herein provide an internal environment that permits the
      microorganisms metabolically retained therein to effectively communicate. The
      communication also serves to assure that the community of microorganisms survives
      during periods where little or no nutrients are supplied to the biocatalysts, that is, the
      biocatalyst can enter into an essential state of stasis. The essential state of stasis as
      described in this section is with respect to the biocatalyst itself. It should be understood
      that with the high populations of microorganisms in a biocatalyst, microenvironments can
      exist where the microorganisms from time-to-time do not obtain nutrients. Hence, even
      while the biocatalyst is exhibit bioconversion activity, zones within the biocatalyst can be
      in essential stasis and regain bioactivity upon an increase in the supply of nutrients and
      substrates to the biocatalyst.
[216] Heretofore, stasis of microorganisms has been obtained by storage at cool temperatures
      with reduced supply of nutrients or freezing. Maintaining such cool or freezing
      conditions can be expensive, especially for large volumes of microorganisms, and is
      subject to loss of power or mechanical breakdown, and can be deleterious to the
      population of the microorganisms.
[2171 The biocatalysts of this aspect described herein can pass into a state of stasis not
      requiring the supply of nutrients and without costly storage conditions yet still with the
      microorganisms having an ability to rapidly achieve the desired biological activity upon
      start-up in a bioreactor. By maintaining the microorganisms in an essential state of stasis
      for extended periods of time, not only can the time interval between manufacture and
      start-up be tolerated, but also the microbial composites can be placed in simple containers
      for shipping such as sealed barrels, tanks, and the like without the addition of nutrients
                                                 95

       during the period of storage. Planned and unplanned shutdowns of a bioconversion
       process using the biocatalysts described herein can be accommodated without loss of
       bioactivity. Because the microorganisms themselves modulate the stasis, no equipment
       or control system is required to protect the population of microorganisms or restart
       metabolic activity. In yet a further preferred aspect described herein, the biocatalyst
       contains solid polysaccharide in its interior to even further enhance the ability of the
       biocatalyst to remain in a state of stasis for longer durations.
[2181  The conditions required for entry into stasis fall within a broad range. The temperature
       may be substantially that used for the metabolic process. The biocatalyst should have
       some degree of hydration during storage although it is not essential that the biocatalyst be
       immersed in an aqueous medium. Often the temperature ranges between about -10'C to
       50'C or more, and most preferably between about 5'C or 10 C to 30'C for purposes of
       energy savings and convenience. Although lower temperatures are generally preferred,
       higher temperatures still provide significant durations of stasis of the microorganisms in
       the biocatalysts described herein. Where the microorganism is sensitive to oxygen, it is
       preferred, but sometimes not essential, that oxygen be excluded during storage.
[219]  Typically the biocatalyst can remain in a state of stasis for extended periods of time, e.g.,
       at least about 1, often at least about 20, and sometimes greater than about 50 or 100,
       weeks. The bioactivity of the biocatalysts is regained upon subjecting the biocatalysts to
       metabolic conditions. Often essentially complete bioactivity is regained in less than 5,
       and sometimes less than 3, days.
    Examples 210 to 215
[220]  In the following examples, various biocatalysts according to the disclosure are subjected
       to storage for the periods set forth in the below table and are then used for the intended
       metabolic process. Prior to being stored, the biocatalysts are used for the metabolic
       reaction for at least 2 days. The results are summarized in Table V.
                                                  96

                                               TABLE V
  Example       Biocatalyst          Metabolic Process            Duration of       Days to recover
                      of                                         Storage, days        bioactivity
                  Example
     210              9              Glucose to ethanol                30                  1
     211             52              Nitrate to nitrogen              350                  3
     212             110          1,4-Dioxane degradation             365                  7
     213             116           Perchlorate to chloride            700                  3
     214             92            Municipal wastewater                90                  1
                                          treatment
     215             146          Glucose to Lactic Acid              300                  5
                         H.     Photosyntheticprocesses
[221]   The biocatalysts described herein can be used in photosynthetic processes. The
        biocatalyst contains one or more suitable photosynthetic microorganisms including
        bacteria, algae, yeasts and molds having biocatalytic activity activated by light radiation.
        Preferably the microorganism is an algae, most preferably a microalgae, or cyanobacteria.
        In some instances Botryococcus is desired due to organic compound productivity. The
        biocatalyst may contain luminescent components as described above, but such
        components are not critical to the use of a biocatalyst in a photosynthetic process.
[2221   Photo-bioconversion conditions are maintained for conversion of at least one substrate to
        the sought bioproduct including conditions of temperature, pressure, oxygenation, pH,
        and nutrients and additives. The bioconversion may be on a continuous, semi-continuous
        or batch mode of operation. Reactor designs include, but are not limited to, Typical
        Bioreactor Systems provided that access is provided to provide light energy to the
        biocatalyst. The biocatalyst is freely mobile in the in the culture liquid. More than one
        reactor vessel may be used. For instance, reactor vessels may be in parallel or in
                                                    97

      sequential flow series. The processes and apparatus described herein may use land-based
      reactors, or the reactors may be adapted to float on a body of water such as a reservoir,
      river, lake, or ocean. The floating reactors can be adapted to take advantage of the
      natural temperature moderation of the body of water, and, in some instances, natural
      movements of the body of water may assist in the agitation.
[223] The bioreactor may be open, e.g., as a pond or raceway, or closed. The light source may
      be any suitable light source but preferably sunlight provides at least a major portion of
      the light radiation of step (c), often at least about 75, say, at least about 90, percent, and
      sometimes essentially all, of the light radiation is from sunlight. Since the biocatalysts
      provide at least some UV protection to the microorganisms, lenses, mirrors, moving
      arrays that follow the sun and the like may be used to enhance the intensity of the light
      radiation contacting the culture liquid. Moreover, the biocatalyst may provide protection
      to microorganisms that are susceptible to bleaching or death in the presence of high
      intensity light.
[224] The photo-bioconversion conditions, rate of substrate supply and the density of the
      microorganisms in the culture liquid can influence bioconversion. Accordingly, for a
      given system of biocatalysts, substrates and bioproducts, productivities can vary widely.
      In some instances, the biocatalysts used in the processes described herein can facilitate
      maintaining desired microorganism densities in the culture liquid and thus facilitate high
      productivities per surface area exposed to light radiation. In some instances, it may be
      desired to provide periods of darkness to the photosynthetic microorganisms where such
      periods enhance the productivity of the microorganisms.
[225] The culture liquid in the bioreactor may be substantially stagnant, but preferably is
      subjected to forces to provide movement to the culture liquid. Most preferably the
      movement of the culture liquid is sufficient to cause movement of the biocatalyst to and
      from the region receiving the light radiation ("direct contact area") of the culture liquid.
[2261 Examples of substrates include, but are not limited to, carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide,
      hydrogen, methane, ethane, propane, hydrogen sulfide, carbonyl sulfide, mercaptans,
      ammonia, lower alkylamines, phosphines, and mixtures thereof. Syngas (synthesis gas)
      is an often proposed gaseous substrate for anaerobic bioconversions. Carbohydrates,
                                                  98

      including sugars and polysaccharides, may find application as substrates. Lipids may
      also find utility as substrates. Other substrates include, but are not limited to, aliphatic
      and aromatic molecules. Aliphatic (including cycloaliphatic) and aromatic substrates
      include, but are not limited to hydrocarbons of from, e.g., about 1 to about 44 or 50
      carbon atoms which may contain hetero atoms, e.g., oxygen, sulfur, phosphorus, and
      nitrogen, and which may be substituted, e.g., with acyl, halogen, hydroxyl, amine, amide,
      thiol, nitro, or phosphine groups.
[2271 The photo-bioconversion conditions, rate of substrate supply and the density of the
      biocatalysts in the fermentation broth can influence the productivity of the culture liquid
      to produce bioproducts. Accordingly, for a given system of biocatalysts, substrates and
      bioproducts, productivities can vary widely. In some instances, the irreversibly retained
      biocatalysts used in the processes described herein can facilitate maintaining desired
      biocatalyst densities in the culture liquid and thus facilitate high productivities per surface
      area exposed to light radiation. In some instances, it may be desired to provide periods of
      darkness to the photosynthetic microorganisms where such periods enhance the
      productivity of the microorganisms.
[228] The recovery of the bioproduct from the culture liquid may be effected by any suitable
      unit operation or unit operations including Typical Separation Techniques. The culture
      liquid may be removed from the reactor for bioproduct recovery or the bioproduct
      recovery may be effected in the reactor. In the latter case, separation may be by
      evaporation, e.g., with lower vapor pressure organic compounds such as ethanol, or phase
      separation as with, e.g., higher molecular weight organic compounds such as aromatic or
      aliphatic hydrocarbons, alcohols, ethers, and esters (for instance, glycerides) of 6 or more
      carbons. Where the culture liquid is removed from the reactor for bioproduct recovery or
      purge, any suitable unit operation may be used to retain the biocatalyst in the reactor such
      as, but not limited to, decanting (where the density of the biocatalyst is greater or less
      than that of the culture liquid), filtration, centrifugation, and the like. If desired,
      especially where the biocatalytic activity of the biocatalyst is observed to be decreasing, a
      portion of the biocatalyst may be removed and replaced to provide for a continuously
      operating facility.
                                                   99

[229] For purposes of facilitating the understanding of the processes and apparatus described
      herein and not in limitation thereof, reference is made to Figure 3 which depicts a cross
      section of a portion of a reactor 300. Reactor 300 comprises reactor vessel 302 has a
      clear polymeric cover at its top represented by the dotted line and contains culture liquid
      304. A plurality of biocatalyst particles 306 containing cyanobacteria and
      phosphorescent material are dispersed within culture liquid 304. Carbon dioxide is used
      as the substrate to make ethanol in reactor 300.
[2301 As depicted, culture liquid and off gas are recycled. Screen filter 308 is provided to
      prevent removal of biocatalyst and permit off-gas and culture liquid to be drawn from
      reactor vessel 302. The fluid passes through line 310 for recycle via line 312 and
      distributor 314 for return to reactor vessel 304. Distributor 314 is adapted to provide for
      movement of biocatalyst 306 to the surface of culture liquid 304 to receive radiation 316
      from a radiation source. While an external radiation source is depicted, alternatively or in
      addition, internal radiation sources could be used. A draw stream of recycling culture
      liquid is taken via line 318 for product recovery. Make up culture liquid is provided via
      line 320. The make-up culture liquid contains dissolved carbon dioxide. If desired,
      ammonium carbonate may be used to supply both carbon and nitrogen to the
      microorganisms.
                        I      RepresentativeMetabolic Process Discussions
[2311 The biocatalysts due to the microenvironments in the biocatalyst, communication among
      the microorganisms and the phenotypic alterations undergone by the microorganisms
      provide a number of process-related advantages including, but not limited to,
          *   no solid debris being generated,
          *   the potential for high densities of microorganisms in a bioreactor,
          *    stable population of microorganisms and bioactivity over extended periods of
              time,
          *   metabolic shift towards production rather than growth and carbon flow shift,
          *    ability to undergo essential stasis for extended durations,
          *    ability to quickly respond to changes in substrate rate of supply and concentration,
          *    attenuation of diauxie,
                                                 100

          *    enhanced control and modulation of pH and redox balances in the
              microenvironment of the biocatalyst,
          *    greater tolerance to substrate, bioproduct and contaminants,
          e    ability to bioconvert substrate at ultralow concentrations,
          *    ability to use slower growing and less robust microorganisms and increased
              resistance to competitiveness,
          *    enhanced strain purity capabilities,
          *    ability to be subjected to in situ antimicrobial treatment,
          *    ability to quickly start a bioreactor since the population of microorganisms
              required at full operation is contained in the biocatalyst,
          *    ability to contact biocatalyst with gas phase substrate, and
          *    ease of separation of bioproduct from biocatalyst thereby facilitating continuous
               operations.
[2321 In the following discussions pertaining to certain of the many uses of the biocatalysts
      described herein, some or all these process-related advantages provide significant
      improvements over existing processes. A recitation of these process-related advantages
      as they pertain to each of the below described processes is not repeated for each and is to
      be imputed for each of the processes.
[2331 Additionally, it is to be understood that biocatalyst options such as the incorporation of
      sorbents, polysaccharide, and phosphorescent materials (for photosynthetic processes)
      can be used with any of the below described processes. Further, process steps such as in
      situ sterilization, gas phase bioconversion and photosynthetic reactor configuration (for
      photosynthetic processes) can be used with any of the below described processes. It is to
      be understood for the below discussions that the cell concentrations in a bioreactor will
      depend upon the concentration of the biocatalyst in the bioreactor as well as the
      concentration of cells within the biocatalyst.
[2341 The unique properties of the biocatalysts described herein enable many metabolic
      processes. Below are described some of the processes providing advantageous
      bioconversions. Figures used to describe the processes are not in limitation and omit
      minor equipment such as pumps, compressors, valves, instruments and other devices the
                                                  101

      placement of which and operation thereof are well known to those practiced in chemical
      engineering and omit ancillary unit operations.
              i. Municipal wastewater
[2351 Municipal wastewater typically contains dissolved organics (BOD and (COD), solids
      (Total Suspended Solids, TSS), and various ions including ammonium cation and
      phosphorus-containing anions. Release of municipal wastewater into the environment
      results in numerous adverse effects. Nitrogen and phosphorus are the predominant
      contributors to eutrophication of surface waters. These nutrients can also lead to algal
      blooms. The algal blooms can cause taste and odor problems when the water is to be
      used for drinking purposes. Other biochemical activities that may be stimulated by
      overenrichment of surface waters include the stimulation of microbes that can pose risks
      to human health.
[236] Municipal wastewater treatment systems generally have a plurality of operations
      including three treatment stages of processing. The primary treatment separates solids
      from liquids. Where the wastewater contains immiscible, low density liquids such as fats
      and oils, these liquids are skimmed off, and the remaining liquid is passed to a secondary
      treatment which usually uses microorganisms to substantially degrade under aerobic
      conditions biodegradable soluble organic contaminants. At the completion of the
      secondary treatment, solids from these microorganisms are separated by settling, and the
      liquid is passed to the tertiary treatment prior to discharge. Not all municipal wastewater
      treatment facilities employ tertiary treatment. Accordingly, the effluent can contain
      significant amounts of nitrogen compounds.
[237] Tertiary treatment can include the removal of nitrogen. Ammonium cation may be first
      subjected to a nitrification to produce nitrite and then nitrate, e.g., in the presence of
      Nitrosomonas spp. and then Nitrobacterspp. Denitrification requires anoxic conditions
      and electron donor. Hence, some facilities add a donor such as methanol or even raw
      sewage. Often over 4 kilograms of oxygen are consumed per kilogram of ammonium
      nitrogen removed, and the nitrification and denitrification processes and increase power
      consumption for a typical facility by 30 percent or more. Solids are generated by the
                                                102

      microorganisms and are removed at the completion of the tertiary treatment before
      discharge of the treated water.
[238] Typical municipal wastewater treatment facilities must treat 4 or 5 million liters of raw
      sewerage per day, and some facilities treat upwards of I billion liters of municipal waste
      water per day. Due to these large volumes and the time required to effect the sought
      biodegradation, a plurality of parallel treatment units are required to handle these
      substantial flow of municipal wastewater. The secondary and tertiary treatments require
      an aerobic environment. Efforts to reduce the residence time for treatment for these
      aerobic include bubbling air through the wastewater. The use of oxygen-enriched air or
      oxygen provide further reductions in the cycle time, i.e., the duration required to achieve
      the sought reduction in organic carbon and ammonium cation. Even so, the hydraulic
      retention time of the water being treated in a secondary or tertiary treatment operation is
      often in excess of at least 16 hours, say, between about 18 and 30, hours with a sludge
      retention time that can be from 10 to 30 days. This significant hydraulic retention time
      necessitates the use of large reactors. Generally, the reactors are operated in a batch
      mode. Accordingly, multiple reactors are required in order to sequence patches such that
      the municipal wastewater treatment facility can handle a continuous incoming stream of
      wastewater. A plurality of settling ponds is required to effect separation of the solids
      (sludge) from secondary and tertiary treatments. And the sludge must be disposed in an
      environmentally appropriate manner.
[239] An additional challenge facing tertiary treatments is that the microorganisms are
      sometimes not stable, whether due to the presence of adventitious competitive
      microorganisms or changes in conditions or the composition of the wastewater.
[240] Hiatt in U.S. Patent No. 6,025,152 discloses a mixture of bacteria that are reported to be
      able to oxidize ammonia and nitrites, organic amines and organonitriles and aerobically
      reduce nitrates to molecular nitrogen. The anammox process has been proposed for
      removal of ammonia under anaerobic conditions. In this process anammox bacteria
      oxidize ammonium under anoxic conditions with nitrite as the electron acceptor.
      Typically the anammox process is conducted with a low ratio of carbon source to
      nitrogen so as to retard the population growth of heterotrophic denitrifying bacteria. The
                                                103

      anammox bacteria are very sensitive to the presence of oxygen, thus posing another
      challenge for use in municipal wastewater treatment.
[241] Processes are described for the treatment of municipal wastewater wherein the water
      from the primary treatment is continuously passed to a bioreactor that effectively
      catabolizes organic carbon to carbon dioxide and ammonium cation to nitrate anion. The
      bioreactor generates essentially no solids that pass to the treated water, thus eliminating
      the need for any additional sludge separation operations and sludge disposal from such
      operations. Moreover, the sought bioconversion of organic carbon and ammonium cation
      can often be completed with a relatively short hydraulic retention time, often, less than
      about 12, and in preferred aspects, less than about 6, hours. The short hydraulic retention
      times enable a small footprint bioreactor to be used, and since the processes continuous, a
      plurality of large bioreactors otherwise required to operate in a batch mode is not
      required. These relatively short hydraulic residence times can be obtained without the
      need to use oxygen-enriched air or oxygen. Preferably the dissolved oxygen
      concentration in the wastewater stream during contact with the biocatalyst is at least
      about 1 milligram per liter and preferably between about 2 to 3, milligrams per liter to
      save on aeration costs. Further, the concentration of oxygen in the wastewater need not
      be high to achieve the short hydraulic retention times, and the short hydraulic retention
      times reduce the amount of energy required to aerate the wastewater for a given reduction
      in ammonia and organic carbon.
[242] Also described are processes for catabolizing dissolved organic carbon and ammonium
      cation in a wastewater stream comprising:
               a.      continuously passing said wastewater stream to a bioreactor containing
               biocatalyst described herein having substantially irreversibly retained therein
              microorganisms capable of catabolizing dissolved organic carbon to carbon
               dioxide and ammonium cation to nitrate anion, preferably an ammonia-oxidizing
              microorganism;
               b.      contacting in said bioreactor said wastewater stream with said biocatalyst
               in the presence of oxygen for a time sufficient to provide an oxidized effluent
               containing less than about 5, preferably less than about I ppm, by mass of
                                                104

               ammonium cation and having a reduced biochemical oxygen demand (BOD),
               preferably less than about 10, preferably less than about 4, milligrams per liter,
      wherein substantially no solids pass from the biocatalyst to the oxidized effluent.
[2431 If desired, the oxidized effluent is subjected to subsequent unit operations, e.g., for the
      bioconversion of nitrate to nitrogen and for the removal of phosphorus. Preferably the
      denitrification is conducted using biocatalyst described herein having substantially
      irreversibly retained therein microorganisms capable of denitrifying nitrate anion,
      preferably a heterotrophic denitrifying microorganism. By substantially irreversibly
      retaining denitrifying microorganisms in the biocatalyst described herein, the wastewater
      being treated need not be deaerated to obtain high denitrifying bioactivity.
[244] One advantage of a sequential nitrifying and denitrifying unit operations in accordance
      with this aspect described herein is that carbon source for the denitrification can be
      controlled to meet the stoichiometric requirement for the denitrification without resulting
      in an increase of COD in the effluent. The organic carbon from the nitrification operation
      may vary depending upon the composition and rate of introduction of the wastewater to
      the nitrification operation and the operation of the nitrification operation to achieve the
      sought reduction in ammonium cation concentration. Consequently, the COD in the
      water from the nitrification operation may be over about 5, preferably less than about 20,
      milligrams per liter. This organic carbon thus offsets any required carbon source for the
      denitrification.
[245] In another preferred embodiment at least a portion of the solids contained in the waste
      water being processed, e.g., debris from indigenous microorganisms, is hydrolyzed and
      degraded to further reduce BOD and TSS in the effluent. Typically these solids tend not
      to adhere to the biocatalyst, especially biocatalysts having a skin, due to the currents of
      water passing through the bed of biocatalyst. By reducing the velocity of the water being
      treated, e.g., as would happen as the water emerges from the biocatalyst bed or by
      providing an expanded section, at least some of the solids are disentrained from the water
      an can be subjected to hydrolysis for extended periods of time. The carbon values from
      the hydrolysis of the debris become dissolved in the treated water and are passed to a
      subsequent bioreactor for degradation of carbon values. The retention of solids may
                                                105

      occur at numerous points in the processes described herein. For instance, the nitrification
      operation may contain two or more bioreactors in series and the hydrolysis occurs
      between the beds of biocatalyst in these bioreactors. Similarly, the retention of solids for
      hydrolysis may occur between nitrification and denitrification operations.
[2461 Since the processes described herein use biocatalyst in which the microorganisms are
      retained and have an ability to retard or exclude the entry of indigenous microorganisms,
      the selected microorganism can be targeted to the sought activity, and the biocatalyst
      often contains a substantially pure strain of the microorganisms, thereby enabling higher
      bioactivity to be achieved than that which can be obtained using indigenous
      microorganisms or activated sludge.
[247] The raw wastewater may be from any source although the processes described herein are
      particularly useful for treating municipal wastewater. The raw wastewater typically has a
      BOD of between about 50 or 100 and 600 or more milligrams of oxygen per liter. The
      COD of the wastewater is greater than the BOD and is often substantially greater, e.g.,
      even up to 5000 or more milligrams per liter. The ammonium cation content of the raw
      wastewater can also vary over a wide range and is often between about 10 and 700, more
      frequently between about 25 and 200, milligrams per liter. The raw wastewater may
      contain other components including, but not limited to, sulfur compounds, phosphorus
      compounds, inorganic salts and solubilized metals.
[2481 Preferably, the wastewater to be treated contains less than about 200, and often less than
      about 100, grams per liter of solids having a major dimension greater than about 10
      microns. If desired, the wastewater can be subjected to ultrafiltration to remove
      substantially all competitive microorganisms prior to being passed to the aerobic
      bioreactor.
[249] Wastewater is passed to at least one aerobic bioreactor containing biocatalyst for the
      bioconversion of organic carbon to carbon dioxide and ammonium cation to nitrate anion.
      The water in the aerobic bioreactor contains dissolved oxygen. Preferably the dissolved
      oxygen concentration in the wastewater stream during contact with the biocatalyst is at
      least about 2, say, at least about 3 or more, milligrams per liter. Conveniently, the
      oxygen is supplied by air or oxygen-enriched air. The oxygen may be supplied by any
                                                106

      convenient means including by bubbling or sparging oxygen containing gas through the
      water or agitating or otherwise mechanically treating the water such as by spraying to
      facilitate water-gas contact. Oxidizing components include, but are not limited to,
      peroxide and percarbonate. The environment provided by the biocatalyst can serve to
      protect the microorganisms retained therein from the effects of peroxide, percarbonate,
      and other oxidizing components. Where such oxidizing components are used, the
      concentration of active oxygen is preferably in the range of between about I and 10, more
      preferably, between about 1 and 5, milligrams per liter. In general, Typical Mesophilic
      Conditions are used. For most municipal wastewater facilities, the other conditions of the
      aerobic treatment are typically those defined by ambient conditions.
[250] The aerobic bioreactor may be in any suitable configuration including Typical Bioreactor
      Systems, preferably suitable for continuous operation. Often the cell density is at least
      about 100, preferably at least about 200, and sometimes between about 400 and 800,
      grams per liter.
[251] The duration of the contact between the wastewater and the biocatalyst during the aerobic
      treatment in the bioreactor is sufficient to provide the desired reduction of metabolizable
      organic carbon and ammonium cation. The duration will thus depend upon the
      concentration of the organic carbon and ammonium cation in the wastewater, the desired
      reduction, and the density of microorganisms in the bioreactor as well as the conditions
      employed. Relatively low average hydraulic retention times can be realized. The
      average hydraulic retention time in some instances is less than about 6, and most
      preferably less than about 4, hours. Thus the bioreactor can be relatively compact, i.e.,
      provide low footprint, yet handle high volumes of wastewater to be treated.
[252] If desired, the oxidized effluent may be filtered. The oxidized effluent may be discharged
      from the wastewater treatment system, but since it contains nitrate anion, it is usually
      subjected to a process to reduce nitrate anion to nitrogen. Any suitable denitrification
      unit operation may be used. A particularly advantageous denitrification unit operation
      uses biocatalyst described herein having substantially irreversibly retained therein
      denitrifying microorganisms such that no sludge is generated that needs to be removed
      from the process.
                                                 107

[253] As stated above, the denitrification may be conducted in the same bioreactor in which
      nitrification is occurring or in a separate bioreactor. The denitrification unit operation
      may be incorporated into the aerobic treatment to catabolize organic carbon and
      ammonium cation. One such process uses biocatalyst described herein containing
      microorganism capable of both nitrification and denitrification discussed elsewhere
      herein. Alternatively, biocatalyst described herein containing denitrification
      microorganisms can be intermixed with the biocatalyst for the oxidation. It is believed
      that the microenvironments provided by the biocatalyst generate anaerobic conditions
      then enable the denitrification to occur. Most often, the removal of nitrate anion is
      conducted in a separate unit operation. Where the concentration of nitrate anion is low,
      the use of ion exchange resins may be feasible. Chemical reduction processes have also
      been proposed, e.g., using sulfur dioxide or other reducing agent. However, most
      municipal wastewater facilities that remove nitrate anion use metabolic processes under
      anoxic or anaerobic conditions and activated sludge. The denitrified effluent typically
      contains less than about 1, preferably less than about 0.01, milligrams of nitrate anion per
      liter.
[254] Typical denitrifying microorganisms include species of Pseudomonas,Achromobacter,
      Bacillus and Micrococcus such as Paracoccusdenitrificans, Thiobacillus denitrificans,
      and Micrococcus denitrificans. Denitrifying microorganisms require the presence of
      metabolizable organic carbon as well as anoxic conditions. Typically denitrifying
      microorganisms are less sensitive to toxic chemicals than are nitrifying microorganisms,
      and recover from toxic shock more rapidly than nitrifying microorganisms, especially
      autotrophic microorganisms. Typical bioreactors include those having a free suspension
      of microorganisms and those having supported microorganisms which may be in a fixed
      or trickle bed or fluidized bed.
[255] In these processes, Typical Mesophilic Conditions can be used. The pH of the water to
      be treated will depend upon its source. In general, the pH is maintained between about 4
      and 8.5, for instance, between 6.0 and 8.0. Buffers, if desired, may be used to maintain
      the water at a given pH value during the process. In some instances, it may be possible to
      use metabolizable organic carbon remaining from the aerobic treatment. Generally the
      metabolizable organic carbon is separately added in a controlled manner in order to
                                                 108

      assure that the denitrified effluent has a low BOD. Any suitable metabolizable organic
      carbon can be used such as methanol, acetate anion, and the like.
[256] A general understanding of this process may be facilitated by reference to Figures 4 and
      5.
[257] Apparatus 400 is a schematic depiction of a municipal wastewater treatment facility using
      the processes described herein. Municipal wastewater enters apparatus 400 via line 402.
      For purposes of ease of understanding, and not in limitation of the invention, the
      wastewater contains about 50 parts per million by mass of ammonium cation and has a
      BOD of about 150 milligrams per liter. The wastewater is passed to centrifuge 404 for
      separation of solids. It is to be understood that instead of centrifuge 404, a filter or
      settling ponds may be used. A thick slurry containing solids is withdrawn from
      centrifuge 404 via line 406. A supernatant liquid is passed from centrifuge 404 via line
      408 to bioreactor 410.
[258] Bioreactor 410 contains biocatalyst described herein suitable for the catabolic conversion
      of organic carbon to carbon dioxide and ammonium cation to nitrate anion. For the
      purposes of this discussion, the biocatalyst is substantially that of Example 148
      containing Rhodococcus sp. Air enters bioreactor 410 via line 412, and gaseous effluent
      is withdrawn via line 414. The average hydraulic residence time in bioreactor 410 is
      sufficient to provide an oxidized effluent having an ammonium cation concentration of
      less than 5 parts per million by mass and a BOD of less than 20 milligrams per liter.
      Bioreactor 410 is a downflow bed reactor for purposes of this illustration. Because
      substantially no solids are generated, no solids separation unit operation is required.
      However, if desired, the oxidized effluent may be passed through a filter to remove at
      least a portion of any solids present.
[259] A preferred bioreactor is illustrated in Figure 5 in which like components bear the same
      identification numeral as those in Figure 4. The supernatant liquor is passed via line 408
      to bioreactor 410 at the top of a bed of biocatalyst 502. Air is introduced into bioreactor
      410 via line 412 and distributor 504 at a bottom portion of reactor 410. The air flows
      upwardly through the bed of biocatalyst. Gaseous effluent is withdrawn via line 414 at
      the top of bioreactor 410, and oxidized effluent is withdrawn via line 416 from the
                                                109

      bottom of bioreactor 410 via line 416. Bioreactor 410 is depicted as having retention
      zone 506 below the bed of biocatalyst. This retention zone serves to retain at least a
      portion of the solids, at least some of which are hydrolyzed to organics that can be further
      oxidized to carbon dioxide during subsequent processing of the effluent. The metabolic
      oxidation of the organics can be effected by the microorganisms used in the biocatalyst,
      e.g., for the nitrification, denitrification or phosphate removal. Sometimes the indigenous
      microorganisms in the nitrification bioreactor and any subsequent reactor using the
      biocatalyst described herein, contribute less than about 5, often between about 1 and 3 or
      4, percent of the observed bioactivity.
[260] The oxidized effluent is passed from bioreactor 410 via line 416 to anaerobic bioreactor
      420. Anaerobic bioreactor 420 serves to reduce the nitrate anion to nitrogen and operates
      under anaerobic conditions. Advantageously, anaerobic bioreactor 420 contains
      biocatalyst substantially as set forth in Example 168 which contains Paracoccus
      denitrificansmicroorganisms. The presence of some oxygen, e.g., up to about 2 or 4
      parts per million by mass, can be tolerated in the oxidized effluent being treated in
      anaerobic bioreactor 420. Since the organic carbon is substantially reduced in bioreactor
      410, additional organic carbon such as acetate anion is added via line 418 to either the
      oxidized effluent in line 416 or anaerobic bioreactor 420. Anaerobic bioreactor 420 may
      be any suitable type of reactor. For purposes of discussion, it is a downflow, fixed bed
      bioreactor. The average hydraulic residence time is often less than about 1 hour.
[261] Nitrogen and other gases exit anaerobic bioreactor 420 via line 422. A further advantage
      of using the biocatalyst is that relatively little of the sulfur compounds contained in the
      oxidized effluent are reduced to hydrogen sulfide or other sulfhydryl compounds.
      Anaerobic bioreactor 420 provides a denitrified effluent withdrawn via line 424. The
      effluent usually containing less than about 1 part per million by mass of nitrate anion.
      Example 216
[2621 An apparatus containing a nitrifying bioreactor and a denitrifying bioreactor similar to
      that described in connection with Figure 4 is used for this example. The example is
      conducted with wastewater temperatures within the range of about 20 C to 25'C.
                                                   110

[263] The effluent from a primary treatment at the municipal wastewater plant at Union City,
      California, is used as the feed to the apparatus. Fresh samples of effluent are obtained
      usually on a daily basis both to assure that fresh raw wastewater is being used and to
      observe the effect, if any, of variations in the composition of raw water being fed to a
      municipal wastewater facility. Changes in usage, rain runoff, and operation of the
      primary treatment can all have an effect. The primary effluent is maintained in a holding
      tank that is aerated to control odor. The COD of the primary treatment effluent varies
      from about 80 to 440 milligrams per liter and the BOD varies from about 50 to over 160
      milligrams per liter. The ammonium cation concentration varies between about 25 and
      55 milligrams per liter.
[264] The primary effluent is fed to the aerobic nitrification bioreactor containing biocatalyst
      substantially as set forth in Example 148. During the first 17 days of operation, the
      primary effluent is fed to the bioreactor without filtration. Thereafter the effluent is
      filtered. The aerobic nitrification reactor is a downflow bioreactor with air being fed at
      the bottom which causes a suspension of the biocatalyst. A perforated plate is used to
      retain the bed of biocatalyst and distribute the air in the bioreactor. The bioreactor
      influent has a dissolved oxygen concentration of about 5 to 8 milligrams per liter. Several
      hydraulic retention times are used varying from about 3 hours to about 5 hours. The
      aerobic nitrification bioreactor has a volume at the bottom where solids are observed to
      settle. The effluent is then passed to a fluidized bed anoxic bioreactor containing the
      biocatalyst substantially as set forth in Example 101. No unit operation is used to remove
      oxygen from the effluent from the nitrification reactor prior to its introduction into the
      denitrification bioreactor. The effluent from the denitrification bioreactor contains about
      2 to 5 milligrams of oxygen per liter. The hydraulic residence time in the denitrification
      bioreactor is about 20 minutes.
[265] After 3 days of operation, the analysis of effluent from the denitrification bioreactor
      commences and is continued for about 8 weeks. After 3 days, the BOD is less than 20
      milligrams per liter and the ammonia is about 1 milligram per liter at a hydraulic
      retention time in the nitrification bioreactor of about 5 hours. After about 14 days, the
      BOD remained under about 10 milligrams per liter regardless of whether the hydraulic
      retention time in the nitrification bioreactor is 3, 4 or 5 hours. The ammonium cation
                                                 111

      concentration of the effluent also remained relatively constant at 1 or below milligram
      per liter except for a few days, but always below about 10 milligrams per liter. The total
      nitrate and nitrite in the effluent from the denitrifying bioreactor is typically below 10,
      and most days below about 5, milligrams per liter although occasional excursion up to
      about 15 milligrams per liter are observed.
      Example217
[2661 Substantially the same apparatus described in Example 216 is used for this example. The
      wastewater is obtained from the municipal wastewater plant at Union City, California,
      and has a COD of about 350 to 400 milligrams per liter and BOD of about 130 to over
       160 milligrams per liter. The ammonium cation concentration varies between about 40 to
      55 milligrams per liter.
[267] The aerobic bioreactor contains biocatalyst substantially as described in example 134 and
      is operated substantially as set forth in the previous example. The average hydraulic
      residence time is about 3 hours in the aerobic bioreactor. The effluent from the aerobic
      bioreactor contains both nitrate and nitrite anion. The effluent is then passes to the
      anaerobic bioreactor containing biocatalyst substantially as described in example 52. The
      dissolved oxygen concentration in the effluent from the aerobic bioreactor is about 4
      milligrams per liter. The average hydraulic residence time in the second bioreactor is
      about 24 minutes, and the effluent contains a total nitrogen below about 10 milligrams
      per liter.
               ii.     Phosphate removal
[2681 As stated above, phosphorus can lead to eutrophication. Thus, in some instances,
      governmental regulations have required phosphate removal from wastewater streams,
      often to below about 1 part per million by mass (ppm-m). Despite the presence of
      phosphorus in surface waters, ironically phosphorus is a limited resource. Many of the
      commercial fertilizers that contain phosphorus derive that phosphorus from the mining of
      phosphorus rock, and the reserves of phosphorus rock are becoming depleted.
[2691 Numerous processes for the treatment of water to reduce phosphate concentration have
      been proposed such as chemical precipitation and biological treatment. One process
                                                 112

      disclosed for both removing phosphate from water and providing a
      phosphorus-containing fertilizer is disclosed by Britton in United States Patent
      Application Publication 2012/0031849. In the disclosed process struvite is produced by
      the addition of magnesium to phosphate containing water. The struvite is precipitated as
      pellets which can be used as fertilizer or for other applications. In 2007, the United
      States Environmental Protection Agency issued a report "Biological Nutrient Removal
      Processes and Costs" (EPA Report). This study considered both the chemical
      precipitation and biological treatment routes to remove soluble phosphates including the
      cost for installation and operation of selected commercial units.
[270] Described are biological processes for the removal of soluble phosphate from water using
      biocatalysts described herein. These processes for the biological reduction of soluble
      phosphate in water comprise:
              a.       contacting said water in a bioreactor with biocatalyst described herein
              having substantially irreversibly retained therein phosphate accumulating
              microorganisms (PAOs) under phosphate accumulating conditions for a time
              sufficient to reduce the concentration of phosphate in said water and provide a
              biocatalyst containing phosphate laden microorganism wherein said phosphate
              accumulating conditions comprise the presence of polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHAs),
              especially poly- p-hydroxybutyrate, within said microorganisms and the presence
              of aerobic or anoxic conditions in the water:
              b.       subjecting said biocatalyst containing phosphate laden microorganism to
              anaerobic conditions in an aqueous medium sufficient to release phosphate from
              said microorganisms into said aqueous medium to provide a phosphate-rich
              aqueous medium; and
              c.       separating said biocatalyst from the phosphate-rich aqueous medium for
              use and step (a).
[271] Examples of phosphate accumulating microorganisms include, but are not limited to,
      Acintobacter spp., Actinobacteria,CandiidatusAccumulibacterphosphatates,
      a-Proteobacteria,/-Proteobacteria, and ;Y-Proteobacteria.
                                                113

[272] The processes described herein treat water to remove soluble phosphate (soluble
      phosphate as used herein is intended to include monobasic phosphate, dibasic phosphate,
      tribasic phosphate, and pyrophosphate anions). The water to be treated (herein referred
      to as "raw water stream") may be derived from any suitable source including, but not
      limited to, surface and groundwater, municipal wastewater, industrial wastewater, and
      water generated by mining operations. Due to the robustness provided by the biocatalyst,
      the water to be treated may contain a number of components, including the presence of
      components that would, if the microorganisms were in a free suspension, adversely affect
      phosphate removal. The raw water feed may be subject to unit operations to remove one
      or more components prior to being subjected to phosphate removal or may be directly fed
      to the phosphate removal process.
[2731 The raw water feed often contains at least about 2, say at least about 4, milligrams of
      phosphate (calculated as P04 3 ) per liter. Municipal wastewater frequently contains
      between about 4 and 20 milligrams of phosphate per liter; however, the processes
      described herein can be used to treat raw water streams containing high concentrations of
      phosphate, e.g., 500 or more milligrams per liter.
[274] The processes described herein serve to reduce the soluble phosphate concentration in the
      raw water feed to provide treated water. The reduction in the concentration of soluble
      phosphates is often at least about 50, preferably at least about 70, percent. In the
      preferred aspects described herein, the treated water contains less than about 1, and often
      less than about 0.1, milligram of phosphate per liter. Advantageously, the low
      concentrations of phosphate in the treated water can be obtained without the necessity of
      using a chemical precipitant. The treated water may be suitable for discharge, recycling,
      or further processing. Since essentially no sludge from microbial debris is generated, the
      treated water need not be subjected to post treatment operations such as settling ponds.
[275] The phosphate removal is effected under oxidizing conditions. Oxidizing conditions can
      be provided by supplying oxygen or oxidizing component. Conveniently, the oxygen is
      supplied by air or enriched air. Generally, the dissolved oxygen content of the raw water
      feed during phosphate removal is at least about 1, preferably at least about 2, say,
      between about 2 and 20, milligrams per liter the oxygen may be supplied by any
                                                114

      convenient means including by bubbling or sparging oxygen containing gas through the
      water or agitating or otherwise mechanically treating the water to facilitate water-gas
      contact. Oxidizing components include, but are not limited to, nitrate, peroxide, and
      percarbonate. Where such oxidizing components are used, the concentration of active
      oxygen is preferably in the range of between about I and 10, more preferably, between
      about 1 and 5, milligrams per liter.
[276] As most phosphate accumulating microorganisms are mesophiles, Typical Mesophile
      Conditions can be used. The pH of the raw water stream being treated is preferably more
      basic than about 6, and is often in the range of between about 6 or 6.5 and 9.
[2771 The duration of the contact between the raw water stream and the biocatalyst during the
      phosphate removal step is sufficient to provide the desired reduction of soluble phosphate
      in the water. The duration will thus depend upon the concentration of the soluble
      phosphate in the raw water stream, the desired reduction of phosphate concentration, and
      the density of phosphate accumulating microorganisms in the bioreactor as well as the
      conditions employed for the phosphate removal. Due to the high concentration of
      phosphate accumulate microorganisms that can be provided by using the biocatalyst,
      relatively low batch cycle or hydraulic retention times can be realized.
[2781 The phosphate accumulating microorganisms retain the phosphorus in excess of the
      amount required for biological processes in the form of polyphosphate within the cell. In
      some embodiments, the concentrated, phosphate-containing water has a phosphate
      concentration at least 10 times greater than that of the raw water feed. In some instances,
      this concentrated water will have at least about 100, preferably at least about, 500,
      milligrams of phosphate per liter. Usually higher concentrations of phosphate in
      concentrated water result in less energy being required to obtain a solid
      phosphate-containing product.
[279] A transition between the aerobic and anaerobic stages is required and can be effected in
      any suitable manner. For instance, the supply of oxygen or other oxidizing compound to
      the raw water being processed in the bioreactor may be terminated. The residual oxygen
      may be consumed in the accumulation of additional amounts of phosphate, and then the
                                                115

      water being treated can be displaced with the separate aqueous medium intended to
      accumulate the released phosphate.
[280] In the processes described herein, the release of the phosphate is into a separate aqueous
      medium than the treated water. In preferred operations, the release of the phosphate
      enables a concentrated, phosphate-containing water to be obtained that is relatively free
      from the presence of other contaminants that may be contained in the raw water stream.
      Thus, the concentrated water has enhanced utility in providing phosphate suitable for
      industrial or agricultural use. If desired, phosphate can be recovered from the
      concentrated, phosphate-containing water. Any suitable process may find application to
      effect such recovery. Unit operations for providing even further concentrated water
      include chemical precipitation, evaporation, and reverse osmosis.
[281] The phosphorus can be released by maintaining the microorganisms under anaerobic
      conditions. Often, the dissolved oxygen concentration in the water (or oxidizing value of
      an oxidizing compound is used instead of oxygen) is less than about 0.5, preferably less
      than about 0.2, milligrams per liter. It is to be understood that some microenvironments
      within the biocatalyst may have higher or lower concentrations of oxygen. Indeed, in a
      continuous operation is possible to sequence between the aerobic phosphate removal
      stage and the anaerobic phosphate release stage such that only a portion of the
      microorganisms retained in the biocatalyst are being used to remove and release
      phosphorus. The remaining of microorganisms are believed not only to be available for
      accommodating changes in the volume flow rate of the raw water stream and its
      phosphate concentration but also serve to shuttle oxygen and phosphate within the
      biocatalyst.
[282] As the conditions of temperature, pressure and pH for the release of phosphate can be the
      same as those for the recovery of phosphate from the raw water, often there is no need to
      purposely induce a change. Typically it is not necessary to add nutrients, including
      micronutrients, to the separate aqueous medium.
[283] For some microorganisms, the kinetic rate of release of phosphate from the
      microorganisms is faster than that for the accumulation of phosphate. Preferably the
      phosphate release stage is operated to provide a high concentration of phosphorus in the
                                                 116

      concentrated phosphate-containing product. If desired, the phosphate release stage can
      be operated in two or more steps, the first being to provide the maximum concentration of
      phosphate in the aqueous medium, and the latter steps to provide for the reduction of the
      phosphate contained in the microorganisms, albeit providing a concentrated
      phosphate-containing product that has a lower concentration of phosphate than that of the
      phosphate removal stage.
[284] During accumulation of the phosphate, it is believed that the PHA and oxygen or
      oxidizing compounds are bioconverted to carbon dioxide and water. In general, between
      about 2 and 20, preferably between about 4 and 10, carbon atoms of PHA are
      bioconverted per phosphorus atom of soluble phosphate accumulated in the
      microorganism. PHA is formed by the phosphate accumulating microorganisms under
      anaerobic conditions in the presence of carbon-containing substrate. Volatile fatty acids
      of 2 to 5 carbon atoms have generally been preferred as the carbon-containing substrate.
      However, with the use of biocatalysts described herein more complex carbon sources
      such as sugars and acetic acid can be used to generate the PHA.
[2851 The processes of this aspect, by retaining the phosphate accumulating microorganisms in
      the biocatalyst, provide significant flexibility as to when the PHA production occurs. For
      instance, the carbon-containing substrate may be provided during at least a portion of the
      duration of the release of phosphate, or a separate, anaerobic stage may be employed
      specifically for the production of P1HA. In the latter case, the microenvironments within
      the biocatalyst and the metabolic state of the microorganisms permit the microorganisms
      to remain viable during the duration of the release of the phosphate stage. This latter case
      is beneficial where the concentrated phosphate-containing product is desired to have an
      essential absence of added organic compounds.
[2861 The kinetic rate for the formation of PHA depends, in part, upon the carbon-containing
      substrate used and the concentration of the substrate. In most instances, the biological
      reaction rate to PHA is more rapid than that for the accumulation of phosphate. Further,
      the biocatalyst can enable the retention of carbon-containing substrate beyond the
      duration of the PHA-generating stage, and the more occluded microorganisms in the
                                                117

      biocatalyst may have a sufficient absence of oxygen and a sufficient presence of
      carbon-containing substrate to generate additional PHA.
[287] The processes may be conducted on a batch, semi-continuous and continuous basis, and
      are preferably conducted on a continuous basis. The bioreactor may be in any suitable
      configuration including Typical Bioreactor Systems. One bioreactor can be employed
      and batch cycled through the phosphate removal and release stages. For most
      commercial operations, operation on a continuous basis is preferred. The biocatalyst may
      be moved from one bioreactor to another, with each of the bioreactors the adapted to
      perform a different function, e.g., a bioreactor for phosphate removal from the raw water;
      a bioreactor for phosphate release; and, optionally, a separate bioreactor for PHA
      generation. In this manner, countercurrent flows of biocatalyst and water can occur in
      each bioreactor to facilitate removal of soluble phosphate from the raw water stream and
      maximize the phosphate concentration in the phosphate-containing product. Another
      approach is to cycle each bioreactor containing biocatalyst from, e.g., a phosphate
      removal stage to a phosphate release stage to a PHA generation stage. Combinations of
      these two approaches can be used. For instance, a bioreactor may be used to remove
      phosphate from the raw water stream, and the phosphate removing stage is then stopped
      with the biocatalyst then being provided to a countercurrent flow bioreactor operating
      under anaerobic conditions to provide a highly concentrated phosphate-containing
      product. The biocatalyst is then provided to another bioreactor which first operates under
      PHA forming conditions and then is transitioned to conditions for phosphate removal.
[288] A general understanding of the invention and its application may be facilitated by
      reference to Figures 6, 7 and 8.
[289] Figure 6 is a schematic depiction of one type of apparatus generally designated as 600
      suitable for practicing the processes described herein. As depicted, the apparatus
      comprises 5 bioreactor assemblies A, B, C, D, and E. Each of the assemblies will be
      described in further detail with respect to Figure 7.
[290] For purposes of discussion, the bioreactors are fluidized bed reactors, although it can be
      readily appreciated that other types of bioreactors, such as packed bed and trickle bed,
      can be used. As shown, the apparatus is a number of fluid transport headers which can
                                                118

      comprise one or more fluid conduit lines. Water flow header assembly is indicated by
      element 602 and provides for the transport of raw water to the bioreactor assemblies as
      well as water between the bioreactor assemblies and water being recycled within a
      bioreactor assembly. Line 604 is adapted to provide carbon source, if necessary, to
      header assembly 602. Air header 606 is adapted to supply air, or other oxygen containing
      gas, to each of the bioreactor assemblies. Drain header 608 is adapted to transport train
      water from one bioreactor assembly to another. Header assembly 610 is adapted to
      provide for fluid communication within a bioreactor assembly, from one bioreactor
      assembly to another bioreactor assembly, and for the removal of a concentrated
      phosphate-containing stream. Header assembly 612 is adapted to withdraw treated water
      from the apparatus. Header assembly 614 is adapted to exhaust gases from the apparatus.
      In Figure 6, the circular elements generally indicate valving assemblies. The valving
      assemblies and operation will be discussed further in connection with Figure 7.
[291] Figure 7 is a more detailed depiction of the bioreactor assemblies of Figure 6. As shown,
      the bioreactor assemblies comprise bioreactor 702. Bioreactor 702 contains biocatalyst
      comprising CandidatusAccumulibacterphosphatis. Line 704 is adapted to direct
      aqueous streams to bioreactor 702. As will be discussed later, the aqueous stream may be
      a raw water stream, a stream from another bioreactor, or a recycle stream. Line 706
      provides oxygen-containing gas, usually air, to the bioreactor. Valve 708 controls the
      flow there, and distributor 710 serves to distribute the oxygen-containing gas into
      bioreactor 702. Line 712 is provided at the bottom of bioreactor 702 for purposes of
      purging or draining bioreactor 702. Valve 714 controls the flow of water through line
      712.
[292] At the top of bioreactor 702 is provided line 720 for purposes of withdrawing gases such
      as the residual from the oxygen-containing gas supplied via line 706 and carbon dioxide
      resulting from the metabolic activity. Valve 722 is provided online 720 and is adapted to
      control the flow of gases through line 720. These withdrawing gases are typically
      discharged to the atmosphere; however, they may be subjected to treatment to insert or
      remove components such as methane. As shown, at an upper portion of bioreactor 702
      line 716 is provided to withdraw treated water from the bioreactor. As will be discussed
      later, this treated water line is used to remove water from a bioreactor operating in the
                                                  119

      polishing mode, or if no bioreactor is operating in the polishing mode, then from a
      bioreactor operating in the primary phosphate removal mode. Valve 718 controls the
      flow of water through line 716. Also, line 724 is provided at an upper portion of
      bioreactor 702 for the removal of water for recycle or transport to another bioreactor.
      Both lines 716 and 724 are provided with screens, or other devices, to prevent biocatalyst
      contained in bioreactor 702 from passing into these lines. Line 724 is provided with
      valve 726 which is adapted to control the flow of water from bioreactor 702 into line 724.
      Line 724 is also provided with directing valve 728 which is adapted to direct the water
      into line 730 which carries a concentrated phosphate-containing aqueous stream for
      removal and/or to line 732. Line 732 contains valve 734 which is adapted to recycle
      water via line 738 and line 704 to bioreactor 702 or pass water into line 736 for passage
      to another bioreactor.
[293] As shown, line 704 can also receive other aqueous streams. These streams can include
      raw water provided via line 740 and water from another bioreactor via line 744. Valve
      742 is provided to control the relative volumes an amount of these streams as will be
      discussed later. Line 746 is adapted to provide carbon source, if necessary, to bioreactor
      702. Valve 748 controls the flow of the carbon source to bioreactor 702.
[2941 For purposes of illustration only, and not in limitation of the invention, the 5 bioreactor
      assemblies depicted in Figure 6 are adapted to be sequenced through various modes of
      operation. One skilled in the art can readily appreciate that fewer or a greater number of
      bioreactor assemblies can be used and the sequencing altered.
[2951 The following summarizes the five modes of operation used for purposes of this
      illustration:
      Anaerobic PHA Generation Mode -- in this mode, the bioreactor is operated under
      anaerobic conditions including the presence of carbon source, which may be added
      carbon source or that contained in the raw water to be treated;
      Primary Aerobic P04 Removal Mode -- in this mode, oxygen containing gas is passed
      through the bioreactor to effect removal of phosphate from the water;
                                               120

      Polishing Aerobic PO4 Removal Mode -- in this mode, water treated by another
      bioreactor that is operating in the Primary Aerobic PO 4 Removal Mode is further subject
      to contact with biocatalyst in the bioreactor for removal of additional phosphate from the
      water;
      Purge Mode -- in this mode, the bioreactor transitions from an aerobic or and anoxic
      environment to an anaerobic environment for release of phosphate from the biocatalyst;
      and
      Anaerobic PO4 Release Mode -- in this mode, the bioreactor is operated under an
      anaerobic environment for release of phosphate from the biocatalyst to provide a
      phosphate-rich effluent stream.
[296] The following discussion describes the operation of the apparatus of Figures 6 and 7
      using the sequencing outlined in Figure 8. As can be seen in Figure 8, each of the
      bioreactor assemblies, A, B, C, D, and E sequence through the same modes. This
      discussion will therefore reference the operation of a single bioreactor assembly with the
      understanding that the discussion will be equally applicable to each of the other
      bioreactor assemblies. Each of the modes of operation is of the same duration of time for
      purposes of this illustration.
[2971 The discussion commences with the operation of a bioreactor in the Anaerobic PHA
      Generation Mode, which is a reactor that has in the immediately preceding period of time
      been used in the Anaerobic PO 4 Release Mode. Thus, at the start of the cycle, the
      bioreactor contains an aqueous medium that, although anaerobic, is rich in phosphate. At
      the initiation of this cycle, valve 742 and valve 714 are closed. First, valve 714 is opened
      to prevent the aqueous medium in bioreactor 702 to pass through line 712 and then be
      directed to phosphate recovery. During draining, raw water feed to the apparatus may be
      terminated, or the raw water feed may be directed to a bioreactor operating in the Primary
      Aerobic P0 4 Removal Mode. Alternatively, the apparatus may be provided with surge
      tanks. Any suitable fluid may be used to replace the volume of bioreactor 702 that occurs
      from the draining. Often, air is suitable even though it is desired that the bioreactor be
      operated and aerobically in this mode. Alternatively, the displacement of the
      phosphate-rich medium in bioreactor 702 at start of this mode can be effected by passing
                                                121

      raw water via line 704 into bioreactor 702 while withdrawing the phosphate-rich aqueous
      medium from the top of the bioreactor via line 724.
[298] Once bioreactor 702 is drained, valve 714 is closed and valve 742 is positioned to permit
      a raw water feed stream that contains a soluble phosphate to be passed from line 740 into
      line 704 for introduction into bioreactor 702. The raw water feed stream refluidizes the
      biocatalyst. Valve 722 and valve 718 remain closed. Bioreactor 702 is operated under
      metabolic conditions, including anaerobic or anoxic, conditions such that the biocatalyst
      bioconverts the carbon source in the raw water feed to PHA. The carbon source may be
      contained in the raw water feed stream. If necessary, carbon source can be provided
      during this mode via line 746 to the desired concentration by regulation of valve 748.
      The raw water feed stream, after passing through the fluidized bed of biocatalyst in
      bioreactor 702 exits via line 724 and is passed via valve 728 to line 732. Valve 734
      directs the water via line 736 to a bioreactor operating in the Primary Aerobic P0    4
      Removal Mode. If necessary, a portion of this water may be directed by valve 734 via
      line 738 back to bioreactor 702 in order to maintain a desired degree of fluidization of the
      biocatalyst.
[299] Near the completion of the Anaerobic PHA Generation Mode, bioreactor 702 the
      transition to the Polishing Aerobic P0 4 Removal Mode is commenced. This transition
      comprises initiating the flow of oxygen-containing gas into bioreactor 702 via line 706 by
      opening valve 708. At this time, valve 722 is opened to permit gases to exit bioreactor
      702 via line 720. The flow of the water from bioreactor 702 remains unchanged during
      this transition and is passed to a bioreactor operating in the Primary Aerobic P04
      Removal Mode. This transitioning allows the bioreactor to serve as the bioreactor
      operating in the Polishing Aerobic P04 Removal Mode during the next period.
[3001 At the conclusion of Period 1 valve 742 terminates the flow of raw feed water and
      commences flow of effluent from the bioreactor operating in the Primary Aerobic P04
      Removal Mode from line 744. Also, valve 726 is closed and valve 718 is open to permit
      phosphate-reduced water to pass from the apparatus via line 716. However, if a recycle
      stream is desired to provide sufficient flow to fluidize the biocatalyst in bioreactor 702,
      valve 726, valve 728 and valve 734 can be set to provide the sought flow rate of water
                                                122

      back to bioreactor 702. Since the prior transitioning placed bioreactor 702 in an aerobic
      environment, the microorganisms have an enhanced PHA content and reduced
      phosphorus content and thus can effectively remove soluble phosphate in the water being
      treated to desirably low concentrations. In addition, the use of a bioreactor in the
      Polishing Aerobic PO 4 Removal Mode enables fluctuations in the soluble phosphate
      concentration in, as well as fluctuations in the flow rate of, the raw water feed to be
      accommodated while still providing the sought flow phosphate concentration in the
      treated water.
[301] In general, no transitioning is required to cycle a bioreactor from operation in the
      Polishing Aerobic P0    4 Removal Mode to the Primary Aerobic P0 4 Removal Mode.
      Bioreactor 702, at the conclusion of Period 2, begins operation in the Primary Aerobic
      PO 4 Removal Mode by switching the source of the water and line 744 from another
      bioreactor operating in the Primary Aerobic P0    4 Removal Mode to the effluent from a
      bioreactor operating in the Anaerobic PHA Generation Mode. Valve 718 is closed and
      valve 726 is opened permitting the aqueous medium to the directed via line 724 to valve
      728 and to line 732. Valve 734 directs the effluent via line 736 to a bioreactor operating
      in the Polishing Aerobic PO 4 Removal Mode. A portion of the effluent may be directed
      by valve 734 to line 738 for recycle to bioreactor 702 in order to provide the desired
      fluidization of the biocatalyst.
[3021 Either before the end of Period 3 in which bioreactor 702 is operating in the Primary
      Aerobic P0 4 Removal Mode or at the beginning of Period 4 in which bioreactor 702 will
      be operating in the Purge Mode, valve 708 is closed to cease the flow of
      oxygen-containing gas into bioreactor 702. Sufficient residual oxygen remains in the
      aqueous medium in bioreactor 702 and in the biocatalyst to permit additional dissolved
      phosphate uptake. The effluent from bioreactor 702 can continue to be directed to a
      bioreactor operating in the Polishing Aerobic PO 4 Removal Mode or a bioreactor
      operating in the Primary Aerobic P04 Removal Mode (line 736 would thus be in fluid
      communication with line 744 of another bioreactor which is operating in the Primary
      Aerobic P04 Removal Mode). Usually in the Purge Mode, the aqueous medium in
      bioreactor 702 is continually recycled through positioning of valves 726, 728, and 734. If
      desired, all or a portion of the aqueous medium contained in bioreactor 702, which
                                                123

      medium contains dissolved oxygen, can be drained via line 712. The drained aqueous
      medium can be passed to another bioreactor operating in either the Primary Aerobic PO 4
      Removal Mode or the Polishing Aerobic PO 4 Removal Mode. In the Purge Mode the
      process to release phosphorus retained by the microorganisms begins. The Purge Mode
      also facilitates dissipating oxygen concentration gradients within the biocatalyst.
[303] In Period 5, bioreactor 702 is operated in the Anaerobic P0 4 Release Mode. In this
      mode, the phosphate-laden water in bioreactor 702 is recycled by means of lines 724,
      732, 738, and 704, with a portion of the water being directed by valve 728 to line 730.
      The combination of the use of a Purge Mode with the Anaerobic PO 4 Release Mode tends
      to provide the highest feasible concentration of phosphate in the water stream withdrawn
      via line 730. In an alternative embodiment, the phosphate-laden water in bioreactor 702
      may be drained through line 712. The phosphate-laden water may be disposed or
      subjected to further chemical or processed treatment to recover phosphate. For instance,
      struvite may be formed and phase separated with return of the water to the apparatus.
      Alternatively, the phosphate-laden water may be subject to evaporation, distillation, or
      reverse osmosis to provide a more concentrated phosphate-containing stream which may
      find industrial or agricultural use.
[3041 Although the illustration has depicted the Purge Mode and Anaerobic P0 4 Release Mode
      to occur in separate periods, the modes may be combined in a single period.
               iii.    Mitigation of biofoulingfrom aquatic microorganisms
[305] Water obtained from sources containing aquatic organisms, especially macroorganisms
      such as barnacles (such as acorn barnacles and goose barnacles); marine mussels;
      freshwater mussels; zebra mussels; bryozoans; tube worms; polychaetes, seasquirts,
      sponges; and sea anemones, is used for a number of purposes. For example, the water
      may be sought to be used as potable water, a source of water for desalination, cooling
      water such as for power plants and manufacturing facilities, for sanitary facilities, and
      ballast for ships. Water sources contain the macroorganisms can cause biofouling of
      surfaces such as pipes, tanks and process equipment such as pumps, valves, heat
      exchangers, filtration devices, reactors and the like. Periodic maintenance is required to
      remove the deposits or replace fouled equipment. Removing the deposits from these
                                                124

      macroorganisms can be problematic due to the strength of adherence of these organisms
      to the surface and the hardness of the shell bodies.
[306] In accordance with this aspect described herein, the water that contains or may contact
      aquatic macroorganisms is first contacted with biocatalysts described herein containing
      microorganisms that are capable of catabolic conversion of dissolved, metabolizable
      organic carbon (organocarbon) in the water. The microorganism selected should be
      tolerant of the other components of the raw water including, but not limited to, salinity,
      other anions and cations, any organics or pollutants present, and pH. Examples of
      microorganisms capable of converting organocarbon to carbon dioxide include, but are
      not limited to, Acinetobacter Johnsonii,Alcanivorax dieselolie,Azoarcus sp, Bacillus
      globiformis, Bacillus mojavensis, Bacillus subtilis, Escherichiacoli, Eubacterium
      biforme, Lactosphaerapasteurii.Microthirxparvicella,Moraxella cuniculi, Nocardia
      asteroids, Pseudomonaspseudoalcaligenes,Rhococccus rhodnii, Rhodcoccus
      coprophilus,Rhodoferaxfermentans, Rhodococcusjostii, Saccharophagusdegradans,
      Skermaniapiniformis, Sphingomonas capsulate, Variovoraxparadoxus, and Zoogloea
      sp.
[307] The contact is for a time sufficient to reduce the concentration of metabolizable
      organocarbon to a level where survival of macroorganisms is inhibited. A water feed
      may be continuously contacted with biocatalyst; however, intermittent or periodic
      treatment of the water may be sufficient to disrupt macroorganism growth downstream of
      the biocatalyst.
[3081 Accordingly, biofouling by aquatic macroorganisms can be accomplished without the
      addition of chemicals. Moreover, the biocatalysts do not themselves generate food
      sources for the macroorganisms, do not increase the mass of solids to be removed by any
      downstream filtration. In preferred aspects described herein, the concentration of
      organocarbon downstream from the contact with the biocatalyst is insufficient to
      maintain the viability of suspended microorganisms.
[309] The water is often, but not necessarily always, obtained from surface sources and maybe
      salt, brackish or fresh water. The water contains food and nutrients for supporting the
      aquatic macroorganisms, and usually contains microorganisms.
                                                125

[310] The conditions for the contacting of the water and biocatalyst may vary over a wide range
      and is usually under Typical Mesophile Conditions. Usually, the temperature of the
      contacting is substantially the ambient temperature of the water. In some instances, the
      dissolved oxygen in the water is sufficient for the metabolic bioconversion of the
      organocarbon to carbon dioxide; however, aeration of the water may be desired in some
      instances. Generally, the dissolved oxygen content in the water to be contacted with the
      biocatalysts is in the range of about I to 50 or more, say, I to 10, parts per million by
      mass. Typically no nutrients need be added to the water.
[311] The bioreactor may be in any suitable configuration including Typical Bioreactor
      Systems. With the high cell densities and bioactivities achievable using with the
      biocatalysts described herein, the average hydraulic residence time of the water in the
      bioreactors is typically less than about 24, more frequently less than about 6 or 10, hours,
      and in some instances may be in the range of about 0.5 to 4, hours.
[3121 Since the biocatalyst provides environments in which the microorganisms can survive for
      extended periods of time without the addition of additional food sources, the biocatalyst
      can be cycled between environments containing organocarbon ("metabolizing cycle")
      and environments containing essentially no organocarbon ("cleaning cycle"). This
      cycling often retards any growth of organisms on the surface of the biocatalyst. In
      general, the duration of the cleaning cycle, if used, is at least about 2, say, between about
      6 and 48, hours.
[313] With reference to Figure 9, apparatus 900 is an assembly for the desalination of seawater
      using reverse osmosis membranes. Seawater is passed to plenum 902. The arrows
      indicate the flow of the seawater into plenum 902. Plenum 902 as a plurality of screens,
      two of which are illustrated, screen 904a and screen 904b. Movable flap 905 is provided
      in plenum 902 and is adapted to stop flow of water to screen 904a and then move as
      indicated by the dotted line to stop flow of water to screen 904b. It is to be understood
      that movable flap 905 may be positioned such that water can flow to both screens 904a
      and 906b.
[314] Each screen has a dedicated header which for screen 904a is header 906a, and for screen
      904b is header 906b. Each header has lines going to each bioreactor. For purposes of
                                                126

      this illustration, two bioreactors are shown, bioreactor 912 and bioreactor 914. Line 908a
      provides fluid communication between header 906a and bioreactor 912, and line 908b
      provides fluid communication between header 906b and bioreactor 912. Line 910a
      provides fluid communication between header 906a and bioreactor 914, and line 910b
      provides fluid communication between header 906b and bioreactor 914.
[315] Each bioreactor 912 and 914 are depicted as fluid bed bioreactors containing biocatalyst,
      which for purposes of discussion is the biocatalyst of example 113. Bioreactor 912 is
      shown as having effluent lines 916 and 912, and bioreactor 914 is shown as having
      effluent lines 918 and 924. Effluent lines 916 and 918 are in fluid communication with
      recycle header 920. Effluent lines 922 and 924 are in fluid communication with treated
      water header 926. Treated water header 926 directs treated water to ultrafiltration
      membrane unit 928. The filtrate from ultrafiltration membrane unit 928 is passed via line
      930 to reverse osmosis unit 932. Desalinated water exits via line 934, and a rejected
      stream exits via line 936 from reverse osmosis unit 932.
[316] Returning to recycle header 920, water is passed to surge tank 938. Water from surge
      tank 938 can be directed via line 942 plenum 902. The water from line 942 enters
      plenum 902 in the region occluded by movable flap 905 and upstream of the occluded
      screen.
[317] There are several modes of operation of the apparatus, all within the broad aspects of this
      disclosure. In one mode, bioreactors 912 and 914 operate independently, and in another
      mode, bioreactors 912 and 914 operate in water flow sequence.
[3181 By way of example, in a first mode of operation raw water enters plenum 902 and is
      directed through screen 904b to header 906b. Line 908b is valved off, and the water in
      header 906b passes through line 910b to bioreactor 914. In bioreactor 914, organocarbon
      is converted to carbon dioxide to provide a treated water stream containing essentially no
      organocarbon. This treated water stream exits via line 924 and passes to treated water
      header 926 where it ultimately passes through the reverse osmosis unit to provide a
      desalinated water. At this point in time, line 918 is valved off.
[3191 Surge tank 938, which had previously been filled with treated water containing
      essentially no organocarbon, supplies water via line 940 into the occluded region of
                                                127

      plenum 902 defined by movable flap 905 and screen 904a. The water is then passed
      through screen 904a into header 906a. Line 910a is valved off so that water does not
      enter bioreactor 914, but line 908a is valved open such that the treated water passes
      through the bioreactor 912. The water then exits bioreactor 912 via line 916 to be
      returned by recycle header 920 to surge tank 938. At this point in time, line 922 is valved
      off. As can be seen, the cycling of treated water through screen 904a, header and line
      906a and 908a and bioreactor 912 serve to provide a cleaning cycle. The use of movable
      flap 905 enables the treated water to contact the flap to similarly attenuate the growth of
      macroorganisms on the flap.
[320] Upon the completion of the cleaning cycle for screen 904a, header 906a and bioreactor
      912, movable flap 905 is moved to permit flow of raw water through screen 904a and
      occlude the flow of raw water to screen 904b. The same valving positions are maintained
      for headers 906a and 906b which results in bioreactor 912 treating the raw water.
      Effluent line 916 is valved off and effluent line 922 is valved open to pass the treated
      water to treated water header 926. Bioreactor 914 is subjected to a cleaning cycle as is
      screen 904b, header 906b and line 910b. Effluent line 924 from bioreactor 914 is valved
      off, and effluent line 918 is valved open and passes the water to recycle header 920.
      Water from surge tank 938 is passed via line 940 to the occluded region defined by
      movable flap 905 and screen 904b in the plenum. The side of the plenum that had been
      exposed to raw water during the prior cycle is now exposed to the water having an
      essential absence of organocarbon. Thus, the apparatus facilitates maintaining both sides
      of movable flap 905 relatively free of macroorganisms.
[3211 In the next cycle, line 908a is valved off, line 908b is valved open and bioreactor 912 is
      subjected to a cleaning cycle. At the same time, line 910a is valved open, line 910b is
      valved off and bioreactor 914 serves to treat raw water to remove organocarbon. In this
      cycle, effluent line 918 is valved off and effluent line 924 is valved open and passes
      treated water to treated water header 926. Also, effluent line 922 from bioreactor 912 is
      valved off, and the water is passed via line 916 to recycle header 920.
[322] In the last of the four cycles, movable flap 905 is moved to occlude flow of raw water to
      screen 904a and permit flow of raw water to screen 904b. Thus, bioreactor 914 treats raw
                                                128

      water, and effluent line 918 is valved closed and effluent line 924 is valved open to direct
      the treated water to treated water header 926. Bioreactor 912 is subjected to a cleaning
      cycle with effluent line 916 valved opened and effluent line 922 valved closed. Line 940
      directs the water from surge tank 938 to the occluded region defined by movable flap 905
      and screen 904a.
[323] The apparatus depicted in Figure 9 can also be used in a sequential bed mode. In a first
      cycle movable flap 905 provides an occluded region upstream from screen 904a in
      plenum 902. Raw water entering plenum 902 passes through screen 904b and into header
      906b. Line 908b is valved closed, and the water passes through line 910b into bioreactor
      914 for treatment to remove organocarbon. The treated water is passed via line 918 to
      recycle header line 920. Line 924 is valved closed. Thus surge tank 938 receives a
      treated water which is then passed via line 940 the occluded region in advance of screen
      904a. Since the treated water has substantially no organocarbon, the water is useful for a
      cleaning cycle. This water enters header 906a and is passed to bioreactor 912 via line
      908a which is valved open. Line 910a is valved closed. Any residual or additional
      organocarbon is us subjected to biocatalyst in bioreactor 912 for additional bioconversion
      to carbon dioxide. The water from bioreactor 912 is passed via line 918 to treated water
      header 926. Effluent line 916 is valved closed.
[324] In a manner consistent with the description of the first mode of operation of the
      apparatus, the movable flap positioning and valving to each of the bioreactors can be
      cycled such that all lines and reactors are passed through a cleaning cycle.
              iv.     Aerobic catabolysis of ammonium ion to nitrogen
[325] As discussed above biological processes for removal of ammonium cation from aqueous
      streams oxidize ammonium cation typically conducted in an aerobic environment. The
      oxidation effluent contains nitrate anions and possibly nitrite anions, especially where the
      oxidation is not complete. Often over 4 kilograms of oxygen are consumed per kilogram
      of ammonium nitrogen removed and the nitrification and denitrification processes and
      increase power consumption for a typical facility by 30 percent or more.
[326] The resulting nitrate and nitrite ions are also contaminants and are preferably removed
      from the water prior to discharge to the environment. Bioconversion processes for
                                                129

      denitrification are also well known. Typically the reduction of these oxyanions to
      nitrogen requires an anoxic or anaerobic environment and electron donor. Hence, some
      facilities add a donor such as methanol or even raw sewage. The need for fundamentally
      different conditions for ammonium oxidation and nitrate reduction contributes to the
      capital and operating expense of adopting a system to bioconvert ammonium to nitrogen.
      The anaerobic conditions for the nitrate reduction can also lead to the production of
      hydrogen sulfide and other sulfhydryl compounds.
[327] Also discussed above is the anammox process.
[328] By this aspect, the biocatalysts described herein enable ammonium cation to be
      bioconverted in an aerobic environment to nitrogen using microorganisms contained in
      activated sludge (herein referred to as an "N/D microorganism". Since the biocatalyst
      described herein is used, no solids are generated by the microorganisms in the
      biocatalyst. In the broad aspects, the contacting between water containing ammonium
      cation and the biocatalyst is under metabolic conditions for a time sufficient to provide a
      treated water having a concentration of ammonium less than about 50, preferably less
      than about 90, percent of that in wherein the nitrate concentration of the feed water and a
      concentration of nitrate ion less than about 1 milligram per liter. Further, this reduction
      of nitrate and nitrite anions in the treated water can occur even in the presence significant
      amounts of oxygen, e.g., greater than 5 or 8 milligrams of oxygen per liter, in the water.
      In preferred embodiments of this aspect, the treated water contains sufficient water that it
      need not be aerated for discharge to the environment, e.g., contains at least about 0.5,
      preferably at least about 1, milligram of oxygen per liter. Moreover, no hydrogen sulfide
      or other sulthydryl compounds are generated by the process.
[329] The water may be from any source including municipal wastewater, ground water and
      surface water. The ammonium cation content of the water to be treated can also vary
      over a wide range and is often between about 5 or 10 and 250, more frequently between
      about 25 and 200, milligrams per liter. The water to be treated may contain other
      components including, but not limited to, sulfur compounds, phosphorus compounds,
      inorganic salts and solubilized metals. Often, the oxygen concentration in the water to be
      treated is in the range of from about 0.5 to 10 or more milligrams per liter.
                                                 130

[330] The biocatalyst described herein used in these processes contain N/D microorganisms
      Suitable N/D microorganisms may or may not exhibit both nitrification and
      denitrification metabolic activities when in a free suspension in an aqueous medium.
      While not wishing to be limited to theory, it is believed that a phenotypic alteration
      occurs in some instances that contributes to the performance of N/D microorganisms.
      The N/D microorganisms can be obtained from activated sludge. Preferably, the
      activated sludge is acclimated under aerobic conditions under Typical Mesophile
      Conditions and fed with bicarbonate anion. In some instances the pH is maintained at
      between about 6 and 8.
[331] The ammonium biodegradation processes may be conducted in any suitable manner. The
      processes may be on a continuous, semi-continuous or batch mode of operation and use
      Typical Bioreactor Systems.
[332] Any suitable metabolic conditions can be used including Typical Mesophile Conditions.
      In general, the pH is maintained between about 4 and 8.5, for instance, between 6.0 and
      8.0. Buffers, if desired, may be used to maintain the water at a given pH value during the
      process. Carbon source nutrient may be required and may be any convenient carbon
      source such as a low molecular weight hydrocarbon or oxygenated hydrocarbon such as
      ethanol, acetate, and sugars.
[333] The duration of the contact of the water and biocatalyst is for a time sufficient to obtain
      the sought reduction in ammonium. The duration can vary over a wide range depending
      upon the type of reactor, the biocatalyst and the concentration of the microorganism
      population in the bioreactor. In many instances, the duration of the contact may be less
      than 12, preferably less than 8, hours to achieve a reduction in ammonium concentration
      to less than about 1 milligram per liter, and sometimes, the contact is less than one hour.
      A significant advantage of the processes described herein is that not only is ammonium
      converted to nitrogen, the treated water contains little, if any, nitrate or nitrite anion.
      Example 218
[334] A continuously stirred, aerated tank bioreactor is filled to about 70 percent of its height
      with a biocatalyst substantially as described in example 92 but using microorganisms
      derived from activated sludge acclimatized as set forth above and at a wet cell density of
                                                131

      about 350 to 400 grams per liter. The biocatalyst is in the form of spheres having
      diameters of about 4 millimeters. The effluent from a primary treatment at the municipal
      wastewater plant at Union City, California, is used as the feed to the bioreactor. A series
      of batch runs are conducted in the bioreactor, each using the effluent with different
      ammonium cation concentrations: 100, 200 and 1000 milligrams of ammonium cation
      per liter. The ammonium cation concentrations are adjusted by the addition of
      ammonium hydroxide. The pH is adjusted to about 7 at the beginning of each run. Each
      run is conducted until the ammonium cation concentration is below about 0.1 milligram
      per liter. At the conclusion of each run, the wastewater is analyzed for nitrite and nitrate
      anion. The total nitrogen in the wastewater is below about 1 milligram per liter.
               v.      Nitrate and perchlorateremovalfrom water
[335] The biocatalysts described herein can be used to remove nitrate and remove perchlorate
      anion, and both when present together, from water. Nitrates are a contaminant in water,
      and the United States Environmental Protection Agency has set a limit of 10 milligrams
      of nitrate (based on the mass of nitrogen) in potable water. Perchlorate anion
      contamination of a number of sources of ground water and surface water has occurred.
      The concentration of perchlorate anion in these contaminated waters can vary widely.
      One health concern that arises due to the presence of perchlorate is its interference with
      the thyroid gland's ability to produce hormones which in turn can cause metabolism,
      growth and development problems. Due to concerns about the adverse effects of
      perchlorate, reduction of perchlorate levels to concentrations in the very low micrograms
      per liter are sought to be achieved. Often, water that is contaminated with perchlorate
      anion contains nitrate anion. The presence of nitrate in water contaminated with
      perchlorate poses challenges to a metabolic process in that not only is nitrate
      preferentially reduced, but also the concentration of perchlorate has to be reduced to very
      low levels.
[336] In the broad aspects, the processes for reducing the concentration of nitrate anion or
      perchlorate anion or both when present in water comprises contacting the water with a
      biocatalyst described herein containing a strain of microorganism capable of reducing
      said anions under metabolic conditions and for a time sufficient to bioconvert such anion.
                                               132

      Nitrate and perchlorate-reducing microorganisms, especially bacteria, are readily
      obtainable from the environment and some prior workers have described self-inoculation
      systems for the biodegradation of these anions. See, for instance, U.S. Published Patent
      Application No. 2010/0089825. Representative of species of bacteria that are available in
      nature, especially creek and waste water, include Vibrio dechloraticans,Cuznesove
      B- 1168, Wolinella succinogenes, Acinetobacter thermotoleranticus,Ideonella
      dechloratas,Ralstonia eutrophia, and GR-1, a strain identified to belong to the     p
      subgroup of Proteobacteria.See, for instance, Coates, et al, Nature Rev. Microbiol., 2,
      pages 569-80 (2004), and Applied Environmental Microbiol., 65, pages 5234 - 41
      (1999); and Wu, et al, Bioremediation Journal, 5, pages 119 - 30 (2001) for discussions
      of microorganisms capable of perchlorate respiration. It is understood that
      microorganisms used may be wild strains or may be genetically-modified recombinant
      microorganisms.
[337] The concentration of nitrate in the water can vary widely depending upon source, and is
      often in the range of about 0.5, say, 1, to 100 or more milligrams per liter. In mining
      operations and aquaculture, wastewater can often contain 500 or more milligrams of
      nitrate per liter, and reduction of such high concentrations of nitrate anion to suitable
      levels for discharge has heretofore been problematic. The concentration of perchlorate in
      the water can vary widely depending upon source. In some reported instances,
      perchlorate concentrations greater than 10 milligrams per liter have been observed.
      However, in view of the concerns raised by perchlorate contamination, it may be desired
      to treat water that contains very low concentrations of perchlorate, e.g., as low as about
       10 micrograms per liter. The water to be treated may contain other components
      including, but not limited to, sulfur compounds, phosphorus compounds, inorganic salts
      and solubilized metals. Often, the oxygen concentration in the water to be treated is in
      the range of from about 0.5 to 10 or more milligrams per liter.
[338] The biocatalyst may contain any suitable microorganism. The biodegradation processes
      may be conducted in any suitable manner. The processes may be on a continuous,
      semi-continuous or batch mode of operation using suitable bioreactors including Typical
      Bioreactor Systems.
                                                 133

[339] Suitable metabolic conditions are maintained such as Typical Mesophilic Conditions.
      The pH of the water to be treated will depend upon its source. In general, the pH is
      maintained between about 4 and 8.5, for instance, between 4 and 8.0. Lower pH tends to
      enhance the degradation of perchlorate anion.
[3401 If needed, electron donors can be added to the water to be treated. Electron donors
      include, but are not limited to, hydrogen, carbohydrates, hydrocarbons, alkanols,
      aldehydes, carboxylic acids, ketones, aldehydes, glycerides and the like. See, for
      instance, paragraph 0055 of U.S. Published Patent Application No. 2006/0263869. If
      electron donors are required, they may be added in any suitable manner. The addition of
      electron donors is typically based upon achieving the sought reduction in perchlorate
      rather than total electron acceptor in the water to be treated. Accordingly, where electron
      donor has to be provided, the processes described herein require less electron donor than
      those where oxygen is preferentially consumed prior to any significant biodegradation of
      perchlorate anion.
[341] The duration of the contact of the water and polymeric matrices is for a time sufficient to
      obtain the sought reduction in nitrate and perchlorate anion. The duration can vary over a
      wide range. As stated above, even though the concentration of perchlorate anion may be
      very low, e.g., less than 100 micrograms per liter, and oxygen is present, the duration of
      the contact may be relatively brief, even to achieve a treated water containing less than 5
      micrograms of perchlorate per liter. In many instances, the duration of the contact may
      be less than several hours to achieve a reduction in perchlorate anion concentration of
      less than about 5 micrograms per liter, and sometimes, the contact is less than one hour,
      and often less than about 30, even less than about 5, minutes.
[342] The treated water can contain oxygen as the use of the biocatalyst does not necessitate
      that oxygen be consumed prior to the biodegradation of perchlorate anion. In most
      instances, the oxygen concentration of the treated water is at least about 0.1, preferably at
      least about 0.5, and most preferably at least about 10 or even 50, milligrams per liter.
      Whether or not the dissolved oxygen concentration in the treated water is sufficiently
      high to be discharged without aeration will in part depend upon the oxygen concentration
      in the water to be treated. Filtration may be desired to remove any solids from, e.g.,
      exogenous microorganisms that may be introduced with the water to be treated.
                                                134

      Example 219
[3431 An aqueous solution is prepared that contains perchlorate anion in an amount of 500
      micrograms and nitrate anion (calculated as nitrogen) in an amount of 10 milligrams per
      liter of distilled water. Oxygen is removed to below 0.5 milligram per liter by sparging
      the aqueous solution with nitrogen. The volume of the aqueous solution is reduced by
      about 20 volume percent and contains 410 micrograms of perchlorate anion and 15
      milligrams of nitrate anion per liter of aqueous solution. Sodium acetate is then added in
      an amount of 0.6 parts by mass of sodium acetate per part by mass of total perchlorate
      and nitrate anion in the aqueous solution. The pH of the aqueous solution is adjusted to
      about 7.
[344] The aqueous solution is then added to a glass flask containing biocatalysts of Example 31
      in an amount sufficient to immerse the biocatalyst. The aqueous solution and biocatalyst
      is maintained at room temperature, about 25'C. After 24 hours, the perchlorate
      concentration of is about 80 micrograms per liter of solution and the nitrate concentration
      is about 790 micrograms per liter of solution.
      Example 220
[345] An aqueous solution containing 128 milligrams of nitrate anion, 12 milligrams of nitrite
      anion, and about 9 milligrams of molecular oxygen per liter of water is continuously fed
      to an up-flow bioreactor at a rate that provides a hydraulic residence time of 25 minutes.
      The up-flow reactor contains the biocatalyst as substantially set forth in Example 52. The
      treated water from the bioreactor contains less than about 1.3 milligrams of nitrate anion
      and less than 0.01 milligrams of nitrite anion per liter of water.
      Example 221
[346] An aqueous solution containing about 12 to 15 milligrams of nitrate anion and about 0.4
      milligrams of perchlorate anion and about 4 milligrams of molecular oxygen per liter of
      water is continuously fed to an up-flow bioreactor at a rate that provides a hydraulic
      residence time of 25 minutes. The up-flow bioreactor contains about 70 percent of it
      volume with biocatalyst substantially as described in Example 52. The biocatalyst
      contains Paracoccusdenitrificans. The pH of the water being passed to the bioreactor is
                                                135

      adjusted to about 7, and sodium acetate is added to the water as carbon source. The
      nitrate concentration of the effluent from the bioreactor is less than about 1 milligram per
      liter and perchlorate anion less than about 4 micrograms per liter.
      Example 222
[347] An aqueous solution containing between about 600 and 800 milligrams of nitrate anion
      per liter is continuously fed to two up-flow bioreactors in series. Each up-flow reactor is
      the same size, and each contains the biocatalyst as substantially set forth in Example 52.
      The hydraulic residence time is varied between 25 minutes and 30 minutes based upon
      the volume of both bioreactors. The treated water from the second bioreactor contains
      less than 10 parts per million nitrate anion and less than 1 part per million nitrite anion.
               vi.     Metals removal
[348] Soluble metal and semi-metal compounds can be found as contaminants in various water
      sources. These contaminants may be naturally occurring or can be the result of human
      activities such as manufacturing, mining, metal-refining, waste disposal, and the like.
      Some of these compounds pose health hazards and can adversely affect the environment.
[349] The biocatalysts described herein are beneficially useful for treating water containing at
      least one soluble compound of metal or semi-metal since the interior of the biocatalyst
      provides microenvironments that favor redox conditions for effecting the reduction of the
      metal or semi-metal to form a solid. These processes comprise:
               (a)     continuously introducing said water into a reaction zone containing
               biocatalyst described herein;
               (b)     contacting the water with said biocatalyst which contains microorganism
               capable of reducing said soluble compound for a time sufficient to reduce the
               concentration of said at least one soluble compound in the water;
               (c)     maintaining said biocatalyst under metabolic conditions sufficient to
               metabolically reduce the oxidation state of the metal or semi-metal to form
               elemental metal or semi-metal or precipitated compound thereof; and
               (d)     withdrawing water having a reduced concentration of said at least one
               soluble compound from the bioreaction zone.
                                                 136

[350] Frequently, the metal or semi-metal of the soluble compound comprises at least one of
      sulfur, phosphorus, selenium, tungsten, molybdenum, bismuth, strontium, cadmium,
      chromium, titanium, nickel, iron, zinc, copper, arsenic, vanadium, uranium, radium,
      manganese, germanium, indium, antimony mercury, and rare earth metals. The soluble
      compound will depend upon the particular metal or semi-metal, and may be an
      hydroxide, carbonate, nitrate, carboxylate (e.g., formate, acetate, or propionate); or an
      oxyanion of the metal or semi-metal that is soluble in water.
[3511 The metabolic conditions include the presence of a carbon source which is metabolized
      by the microorganisms in the biocatalyst. The metabolism of carbon source is believed to
      provide a gradient within the interior of the biocatalyst to enhance the activity of a
      portion of the microorganisms for the metabolic reduction of metals and semi-metals.
      Hence, the metabolic reduction can occur even where the water being treated contains
      oxygen. The metabolic reduction may provide an elemental material or a precipitated
      compound. The precipitated compound has the metal or semi-metal in a reduced
      oxidation state, and the precipitated compound may be one or more of oxides, carbonates,
      sulfides and hydroxides. The specific nature of the precipitated compound will depend
      upon the metal or semi-metal of which it is composed to provide the insolubility
      properties.
[352] In some instances, the metabolic reduction of the metal or semi-metal may lag the
      accumulation of the soluble compound by the porous matrices and the microorganisms.
      In such situations, the bioreaction zone may be sized to permit a steady-state operation, or
      porous matrices may be cycled between a bioreaction zone to which the water to be
      treated is passed and bioreaction zone that is maintained under metabolic conditions
      where additional metabolic reduction occurs.
[3531 The metabolic processes may be conducted in any suitable manner including Typical
      Mesophilic Conditions and using Typical Bioreactor Systems. Carbon source nutrient
      may be required and may be any convenient carbon source such as a low molecular
      weight hydrocarbon or oxygenated hydrocarbon such as ethanol, acetate, and sugars.
[354] The interior of the biocatalyst provides a plethora of microenvironments for
      microorganisms, and these microenvironments can vary within the biocatalyst. Thus,
                                               137

      some microenvironments may change the composition of the water such that other
      microenvironments may be under conditions more favorable for the metabolic reduction.
      For instance, where the water contains oxygen, the microorganisms may metabolize the
      oxygen and provide an oxygen-depleted water that passes to other microenvironments
      where conditions favor metabolic reduction. Hence, the biocatalyst serves to provide a
      self-modulation of the metabolic reduction. In some embodiments described herein,
      external modulation of the metabolic reduction conditions can be effected by the rate of
      supply of electron donor. In general, the more electron donor, the more acidic the pH
      within the biocatalyst. Since the modulation is within the interior of each biocatalyst
      structure, the biocatalytic activities of the biocatalysts in a reaction zone can be relatively
      uniform.
[3551 Often at least a portion of the solid metabolic product remains in the cell or otherwise in
      the biocatalyst. In other instances, the metabolic product is removable from the
      biocatalyst. If desired, the water from the bioreactor may be subjected to a solids
      removal unit operation such as ultrafiltration, settling, centrifugation, and the like. As
      described above, with some systems, it is possible to regenerate the porous matrices.
      Alternatively the biocatalyst can provide a concentrated source of the metal or semi-metal
      for disposal or recovery.
[356] Representative reducing microorganisms include, but are not limited to, those of genera
      Saccharomyces; sulfur-reducing bacteria including genera Proteus, Campylobacter,
      Pseudomonas, Salmonella, Desulfuromonas,Desulfovibrio, Desulfonema; phosphorus
      reducing bacteria including genera Acinetobacter,Phormidium,Rhodobacter, and
      Staphylococcus; uranium reducing bacteria including Desulfovibrio, Deinococcus,
      Geobacter, Cellulomonas,Shewanella, and Pseudomonas; molybdate reducing organisms
      including genera Serratia,Enterobacter,and Escherichia;cadmium reducing bacteria
      including genera Pseudomonasand Klebsiella.
[357] Some preferred microorganisms for specific types of soluble compounds are as follows.
      selenate-reducing bacteria including Enterobactercloacae, Planomicrobiummcmeekinii,
      Psuedomonas alcaligenes, Psuedomonas denitrificans,Psueomonasstutzeri, and
      Roseomonas genomospecies; other selenium-reducing microorganisms including those
                                                  138

      disclosed in U.S., Patent No. 7,815,801, herein incorporated by reference in its entirety;
      chromate-reducing organisms including Enterobactercloacae, Desulfovibrio vulgaris,
      Geobactersulfurreducens, Psuedomonas chromatophilia,Psuedomonasfluorescens,and
      Swanella alga; ferric ion reducing microorganisms including those from the genera
      Ferribacterium,Geobacter, and Geothrix; and arsenate reducing bacteria including those
      from the genera Geobacter, Corynebacterium,Pseudomonas,Shewanella, and
      Hydrogenophaga.
              vii.    Taste and odor removalfrom water
[358] Algal metabolites in sources of drinking water can result in a characteristic bad flavor and
      unpleasant odor. It is believed that the flavor and unpleasant odor is due to the presence
      of 2-methylisoboreal (MIB) and trans-1, 10-dimethyl-trans-decalol (geosmin). Humans
      can detect levels of MIB as low as 5 to 10 parts per trillion. Geosmin is similarly
      detected at very low levels. Other possibilities for objectionable drinking water are
      halogenated organic substances, such as trihalomethanes, which are derived from a
      combination of chlorine and bromine with organic halogenated components of the water.
      Disinfection byproducts such as halogenated organic compounds may also be present,
      often at higher concentrations. The removal of these halogenated organic compounds is
      desirable for organoleptic and public health reasons. The removal of the algal
      metabolites and halogenated components from drinking water is particularly problematic
      due to the low concentrations to which these impurities must be lowered.
[359] The biocatalysts described herein are able to treat water containing ultra-low
      concentrations of contaminants including these algal metabolites and halogenated organic
      compounds, and reduce their concentrations to acceptable levels. Significantly, due to
      the phenotype alterations of the microorganisms in the biocatalyst, a stable, high
      population of microorganisms can exist within the without the need for excessive electron
      donor to support the microorganism population. The processes for using the biocatalysts
      described herein for reducing the concentration of ultra-low contaminants in a water
      stream comprise:
              a.      continuously passing said water stream to a bioreactor, said bioreactor
              being maintained at metabolic conditions including the presence of the
                                                139

               biocatalyst, said biocatalyst having microorganisms capable of bioconversion of
               said ultra-low contaminants irreversibly retained therein;
               b.       contacting said water stream with said biocatalyst for a time sufficient to
              reduce the concentration of said ultra-low contaminants; and
               c.      withdrawing from said bioreactor a treated water stream having a reduced
               concentration of said ultra-low contaminants.
[360] Preferably, each of the ultra-low contaminants is present in a concentration in the water
      stream the passed to the bioreactor in an amount of at least about 40, say at least about
      50, nanograms per liter (ng/L) and less than about 50, often less than about 20,
      micrograms per liter (mcg/L). The ultra-low contaminants preferably comprise algal
      metabolites such as MIB and geosmin. The contaminants may also include halogenated
      organic compounds such as disinfection byproducts such as trihalomethanes (THM) and
      halo-acetic acid (HAA) each of which may be present in amounts of I to 1000
      micrograms per liter. After treatment, the concentration of the ultra-low contaminants in
      the treated water is typically below about 40, preferably below about 20, and sometimes
      below about 10, nanograms per liter. Frequently, the halogenated organic compounds in
      the treated water are at concentrations of less than about 70, preferably less than 50,
      micrograms per liter.
[361] The processes described herein are suitable for use with any microorganism capable of
      low concentration bioconversions. The preferred microorganisms are from the genus
      Rhodococcus. The genus Rhodococcus is a very diverse group of bacteria that possesses
      the ability to degrade a large number of organic compounds. They have a capacity to
      acquire a remarkable range of diverse catabolic genes and have robust cellular
      physiology. Rhodococcus appear to have adopted a strategy of hyperrecombination
      associated with a large genome. Notably, they harbor large linear plasmids that contribute
      to their catabolic diversity by acting as 'mass storage' for a large number of catabolic
      genes.
[362] In many instances the metabolic conditions do not require the addition of electron donor
      in order to maintain the metabolic activity of the porous matrices as the ultra-low
      contaminants and other contaminants in the water are sufficient to provide the needed
                                                 140

      electron donor. Where electron donor is desired to be added, it is preferably in a
      concentration that will be essentially completely metabolized by the biocatalyst, i.e., the
      electron donor will be provided in an amount insufficient to maintain the population of
      the microorganisms in the bioreactor.
[3631 In some instances the average hydraulic residence time of the water being treated in the
      bioreactor is less than about 5, preferably less than about 2, hours, and may be in the
      range of between about 10 and 50 minutes. Often the biocatalyst can retain metabolic
      activity for at least about 50, say, at least about 250, days. It is possible that the
      microorganisms can be maintained for decades or more. The preferred biocatalysts can
      maintain desired metabolic activity (e.g., within about 3 to 5 days of restart) after
      extended periods of shutdown, say, between about 100 and 500 days.
[364] The metabolic processes may be conducted in any suitable manner and may be under
      Typical Mesophilic Conditions using Typical Bioreactor Systems. The process may be
      on a continuous, semi-continuous or batch mode of operation, but is preferably
      continuous. The oxygenation is preferably at least about 1, more preferably at least about
      2, and sometimes between about 2 and 10 or more, milligrams of free oxygen per liter. If
      needed, electron donors can be added to the water to be treated. Electron donors include,
      but are not limited to, hydrogen, carbohydrates, hydrocarbons, alkanols, aldehydes,
      carboxylic acids, ketones, aldehydes, glycerides and the like. See, for instance, paragraph
      0055 of U.S. Published Patent Application No. 2006/0263869. If electron donors are
      required, they may be added in any suitable manner. Usually the amount added is
      sufficient to provide the sought biodegradation.
[365] The degradation products may be removed from the water in any suitable manner
      including using Typical Separation Techniques.
      Example 223
[3661 A 4 liter capacity continuously stirred tank bioreactor is filled to about 30 percent of its
      volume with biocatalyst substantially as described in Example72. A water feed stream is
      continuously passed to the bioreactor at room temperature (22'C) at a rate sufficient to
      provide an approximate hydraulic residence time of about 30 minutes. The water is from
      a fresh water reservoir which has not been treated. MIB and geosmin are each provided
                                                  141

      in an amount of about 400 nanograms per liter (adding MIB and geosmin where required
      to approximate the target concentration levels). The fresh water does contain algal
      metabolites as can be detected by odor and taste. The water has a pH of about 7 and at
      least 4 parts per million by mass of dissolved oxygen per liter. The concentration of MIB
      is reduced to less than 5 nanograms per liter and geosmin to less than about 20
      nanograms per liter. The treated water from the reactor has no detectible odor or taste.
[367] The reactor is shut down for about 6 months (no water flow through the reactor) and
      maintained at room temperature. Upon restart by passing a similar water stream through
      the bioreactor under substantially the same conditions, within one day, the water
      discharged from the reactor does not have a detectible odor or taste.
              viii.   1,4-Dioxane removalfrom water
[3681 Animal studies have shown that inhalation and ingestion of 1,4-dioxane can lead to the
      formation of nasal cavity and liver carcinomas along with neurotoxic effects.
       1,4-Dioxane has come into water resources primarily from use as a solvent stabilizer for
      solvents used in various cleaning and degreasing applications, especially chlorinated
      solvents, such as trichloroethane (TCA) and trichloroethylene (TCE). 1,4-Dioxane is also
      detected in consumer products, such as shampoos, soaps, waxes and lotions, as a result of
      contamination of ethoxylated compounds, such as sodium laureth sulfate. States such as
      California, Massachusetts, Florida and North Carolina have set drinking water standards
      for 1,4-dioxane at low parts per billion (ppb) levels.
[369] Biodegradation of 1,4-dioxane is problematic. The presence of chlorinated solvents has
      an inhibitory effect on microorganisms identified to degrade 1,4-dioxane; inducing
      compounds such as propane or tetrahydrofuran (THF) are required for many
      microorganisms to degrade 1,4-dioxane, but are themselves contaminants; and
      microorganisms that do not require inducing compounds tend to be less robust and slow
      growing.
[3701 The biocatalyst described herein are particularly attractive for use in processes to reduce
      the concentration of 1,4-dioxane in a water stream. In some instances the use of an
                                                142

      inducing compound is not required even though the water contains both 1,4-dioxane and
      a halogenated compound. These processes comprise:
               a.     continuously passing said water stream to a bioreactor, said bioreactor
              being maintained at metabolic conditions including aerobic conditions and the
              presence of biocatalyst described herein containing microorganisms adapted to
               degrade 1,4-dioxane metabolically;
               b.     contacting said water stream with said biocatalyst for a time sufficient to
              reduce the concentration of said 1,4-dioxane in the water stream; and
               c.     withdrawing from said bioreactor a treated water stream having a reduced
               concentration of 1,4-dioxane.
[3711 The preferred microorganisms used in the biocatalyst are from the Rhodococci genus,
      Pseudonocardiadioxanivorans,and Pseudonocardiabenzenivorans. Preferred processes
      include those where 1,4-dioxane is present in the water stream in an amount less than
      about 100 micrograms per liter and the treated water stream has a concentration of
       1,4-dioxane of less than about 10 micrograms per liter. In some instances, 1,4-dioxane is
      present in the water stream in an amount greater than about 10 micrograms per liter and
      the treated water stream has a concentration of 1,4-dioxane of less than about 5
      micrograms per liter.
[372] In many instances, no additional carbon source is required to maintain the population of
      the microorganisms in the biocatalyst due to the microenvironment and phenotypic
      alterations. However, at low concentrations of 1,4-dioxane in the water to be treated, the
      addition of minor amounts of carbon source may be advantageous to support the
      energetic robustness of the population. Nevertheless, the metabolic activity of the
      biocatalysts can be sufficient to assure that substantially no biodegradable carbon is
      contained in the treated water.
[3731 The metabolic processes may be conducted in any suitable manner including Typical
      Mesophilic Conditions and using Typical Bioreactor Systems. The process may be on a
      continuous, semi-continuous or batch mode of operation, but is preferably continuous.
      The oxygenation is preferably at least about 1, more preferably at least about 2, and
                                                143

      sometimes between about 2 and 10 or more, milligrams of free oxygen per liter. If
      needed, electron donors can be added to the water to be treated. Electron donors include,
      but are not limited to, hydrogen, carbohydrates, hydrocarbons, alkanols, aldehydes,
      carboxylic acids, ketones, aldehydes, glycerides and the like. Acetone or glucose is a
      convenient electron donor. See, for instance, paragraph 0055 of U.S. Published Patent
      Application No. 2006/0263869. If electron donors are required, they may be added in
      any suitable manner.
[3741 The degradation products may be removed from the water in any suitable manner
      including using Typical Separation Techniques.
      Example 224
[375] A 4 liter, airlift, downflow bioreactor with a perforated plate equipped with diffusers to
      provide uniform aeration of the bioreactor is loaded with 3000 grams of the biocatalyst of
      example48. An air pump provides air to the bioreactor below the perforated plate in an
      amount sufficient to maintain the biocatalyst suspended. Water to be treated is
      continuously added to the liquid phase above the perforated plate using a variable-speed
      pump.
[376] The water to be treated is deionized water to which components are added. Acetone,
      ammonium chloride and dipotassium biphosphate are added as necessary to maintain an
      atomic ratio of carbon:nitrogen:phosphorus in the water of 100:3:1. The atomic carbon is
      calculated as the total carbon in the components added to the water. The dissolved
      oxygen in the bioreactor is between about 5 and 7 milligrams per liter (as determined by
      an Oakton D06 Acorn Series meter and probe). The bioreactor is operated at room
      temperature (about 210 to 25'C) and an average hydraulic residence time of 5 hours, and
      a pH of between about 7 and 8 is maintained in the bioreactor.
[377] The water is first spiked with about 71,000 micrograms per liter of 1,4-dioxane. After
      completion with that run, the water is spiked with 100 micrograms per liter of
       1,4-dioxane and 50 micrograms of acetone per liter. The concentration of 1,4-dioxane in
      the efflux is determined by gas chromatography and is in both instances is below the
      non-detect limit of the gas chromatograph of about 2 micrograms per liter.
                                               144

[378] Additionally, unfiltered effluent from the bioreactor is plated on agar plates (LBB +
      glucose). After a 5-day incubation, colonies (if any) were counted. Substantially no
      colonies are observed indicating that the microorganisms are substantially irreversibly
      retained in the biocatalyst.
[379] The results are indicative that the biocatalysts require very little induction time before
      effective removal of 1,4-dioxane occurs and that the 1,4-dioxane concentration can be
      reduced to non-detect levels at both higher and lower initial concentrations.
               ix. Succinic acid
[3801 The biocatalysts described herein can be used to convert sugars to succinic acid. In the
      broad aspects, the processes for the bioconversion of sugar and optionally carbon dioxide
      using a biocatalyst containing succinic acid-producing microorganism comprise:
               a.      contacting an aqueous medium with said biocatalyst under metabolic
               conditions including temperature and the presence of sugar and other nutrients for
               the microorganism for a time sufficient to produce succinate anion and provide a
               succinate anion-containing aqueous medium;
               b.     removing at least a portion of said succinate anion-containing aqueous
               medium and said biocatalyst;
               c.     reusing in step (a) said biocatalyst from which at least a portion of said
               succinate anion-containing aqueous medium has been removed; and
               d.     recovering succinate anion from said succinate anion-containing aqueous
               medium.
[3811 Examples of succinic anion-producing microorganisms heretofore disclosed include, but
      are not limited to, natural or genetically modified microorganisms such as Mannheimia
      succiniciproducens,Anaerobiospirillumsucciniciproducens,Actinobacillus
      succinogenes, Alcaligenes eutrophus,Aspergillus niger, Bacillus, Bacteroides fragilis,
      Bacteroidesruminicola, Bacteroides amylophilus, Brevibacterium ammoniagenes,
      Brevibacterium lactofermentum, Candida brumtii, Candida catenulate, Candida
      mycoderma, Candidazeylanoides, Candidapaludigena, Candid sonorensis, Candida
      utilis, Candidazeylanoides, Citrobactorfreundii,Corynebacteriumglutamicum,
      Debaryomeces hansenii,Enterococcusfaecalis,Escherichiacoli (. coli strains SB550
                                                145

      MG pHL 413, KJ122 and TG400), Fibrobactersuccinogenes, Fusariumoxysporum,
      Gluconobacteroxydans, Glyconobacterasaii, Humical lanuginosa,Kloeckera apiculata,
      Kluyveromyces lactic, Kluyveromyces wickerhamii, Paecilomcyes varioti, Penicillum
      simplicissimum, Pichiaanomala,Pichiabesseyi, Pichiamedia, Pichaguiliermondii,
      Pichiainositovora,Pichiastipidis, Rhizobium, Saccharomyces cerevisiae,
      Saccharomyces bayanus, Schizosaccharommyces, Schizosaccharomycespombe,
      Torulopsos candida, Veillonella parvula, Wollinella succinogenes and Yarrowia
      lipolytica.
[382] The metabolic processes may be conducted in any suitable manner. The substrate
      comprises carbohydrate, including C5 and C6 sugars, and may include carbon dioxide.
      Due to the use of the biocatalyst, sugars less preferred for bioconversion may be
      effectively used by the microorganisms. The concentration of sugars used in the aqueous
      medium may fall within a wide range. Generally, sugars are present in a concentration in
      the aqueous medium of at least about 0.5, say, between about 1 and 200, grams per liter.
      Preferably, the amount of sugar provided in the aqueous medium is such that at least
      about 90, more preferably, at least about 95, mass percent is consumed during the
      metabolic process.
[3831 The carbon dioxide may be obtained from any suitable source; however, components that
      are unduly deleterious to the microorganisms should be removed prior to contact with the
      aqueous medium containing the biocatalyst. Generally carbon dioxide is supplied in
      gaseous form, although carbonate and bicarbonate salts can be used. Where supplied as a
      gas, the carbon dioxide concentration in the gas is typically the range of about 40 to 100,
      say, 70 to 100, volume percent. Sources of carbon dioxide include, but are not limited to,
      off gases from industrial and fermentation processes, exhaust gases from combustion of
      fuels and waste materials, natural gas streams containing carbon dioxide, streams from
      the gasification of biomass, e.g., to produce syngas, and the like.
[384] The aqueous medium contains water which may be provided from any suitable source
      including, but not limited to, water, dernineralized water, distilled water, and process or
      waste water streams. Any suitable metabolic conditions can be used including Typical
      Mesophilic Conditions. Where gaseous substrates are used, higher pressures tend to
                                                146

      increase the amount of substrate dissolved in the culture liquid and thus enhance mass
      transfer. Often the pH is between about 3 and 8.5, say, 3.5 to 7. The metabolic
      conditions for the bioconversion of sugars and carbon dioxide to succinate anion are
      typically anaerobic, and preferably, the aqueous medium has a dissolved molecular
      oxygen concentration of less than about 0.5 milligrams per liter. Where the biocatalyst is
      cycled to different aqueous media, and one of the aqueous media is intended to provide
      metabolic activities to enhance the viability of the microorganisms, the dissolved
      molecular oxygen concentration may be in excess of about 2, say, about 2 to 10,
      milligrams per liter.
[385] The duration of contact between the aqueous medium and biocatalyst can also fall within
      a wide range and will depend, in part, upon the concentration of substrate, the
      concentration of succinate anion sought in the aqueous medium, the type of bioreactor,
      the other metabolic conditions used, the nature of the microorganism used, and the type
      of microorganism and cell density in the biocatalyst. For batch operations, the contact is
      often in the range of about 5 minutes to 100 hours, say, about I to 50, hours, and in
      continuous operations, the liquid hourly space velocity is typically in the range of about
      0.01 to 50 hr'.
[3861 The bioconversion may be on a continuous, semi-continuous or batch mode of operation.
      Any suitable bioreactor design may be used including Typical Bioreactor Systems.
[3871 In preferred aspects, the biocatalyst is subjected to two or more aqueous environments to
      enhance the bioconversion of sugars, reduce the presence of non-consumed sugars in the
      succinic acid-containing fermentation product, and enhance the use of carbon dioxide as
      a co-substrate.
[3881 In one embodiment of the preferred processes, the contacting of the aqueous medium
      with the biocatalyst occurs in at least two reaction zones having different metabolic
      conditions. In one aspect of this embodiment, aqueous medium from a first reaction zone
      containing the biocatalyst is passed to a subsequent reaction zone for further contact with
      biocatalyst. Substantially no additional sugar is added to the aqueous medium either
      immediately prior to passing to the subsequent reaction zone or during its residence time
      in the subsequent reaction zone. Thus, the sugar concentration in the aqueous medium is
                                                147

      further depleted in the subsequent reaction zone, preferably to less than about 1, say, less
      than about 0.5, mass percent based upon the mass of succinate anion in the aqueous
      medium. Preferably, the first reaction zone and the subsequent reaction zone are cycled.
      In some instances, it may be desired to supply carbon dioxide substrate to the aqueous
      medium in the subsequent reaction zone to convert additional phosphoenolpyruvate in the
      microorganisms to succinate anion.
[389] In another aspect of this preferred embodiment, a reaction zone containing the biocatalyst
      is cycled between using an aqueous sugar substrate and an aqueous or gaseous carbon
      dioxide substrate. For instance, sugar is provided in a first aqueous medium contacting
      the porous matrices in a the first reaction zone, which may be under conditions sufficient
      to generate phosphoenolpyruvate in the microorganisms under conditions not favoring
      conversion of the phosphoenolpyruvate to succinate anion which conditions may
      comprise micro-aerobic or aerobic conditions. The first aqueous medium is withdrawn.
      A second aqueous medium or gas is introduced into the first reaction zone under
      anaerobic conditions, including the presence of carbon dioxide, sufficient to bioconvert
      phosphoenolpyruvate to succinate anion. As the biocatalyst provides environments
      retaining nutrients for the microorganisms in the metabolic activity of the
      microorganisms in the second zone can be maintained. Preferably the second zone uses
      an aqueous medium that is substantially water such that succinate anion product passing
      into the second aqueous medium can more easily be recovered. Most preferably, the
      concentration of the succinate anion in the second aqueous medium is at least about 150,
      say, at least about 200 to as much as 300 or 400, grams per liter of aqueous medium. The
      second aqueous medium containing succinate anion is removed from the first reaction
      zone for recovery of the succinate anion. In some instances, succinic acid of high purity
      can be obtained by reducing the temperature of the aqueous medium sufficient to
      crystallize a succinic acid. After removal of the second aqueous medium, the first
      reaction zone can be contacted with a first aqueous medium. In some instances, a third or
      even further stages can be used. For example, after the removal of the second aqueous
      medium the first reaction zone can be contacted with a first aqueous medium from it or
      another reaction zone and maintained under conditions to reduce metabolites in the
                                                148

      aqueous medium and generate more phosphoenolpyruvate. If desired, multiple reaction
      zones can be used in order to provide a semi-continuous process.
[390] The succinic acid product may be recovered from the aqueous medium in any suitable
      manner. Various methods for recovery of succinic acid include precipitation, and
      membrane separations, sorption and ion exchange, electro dialysis, and liquid-liquid
      extraction. See, for instance, Davidson, et al., Succinic Acid Adsorption from
      Fermentation Broth and Regeneration, Applied Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Spring
      2004, pages 653 - 669, for a discussion of sorbents for succinic acid recovery from
      fermentation broths. See also, Li, et al., Separation of Succinic Acid from Fermentation
      Broth Using Weak Alkaline Anion Exchange Adsorbents, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 2009,
      48, pages 3595 - 3599. See, for instance, a multiple crystallization method for recovery
      of succinic acid disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011/0297527.
      Hepburn, in his Masters thesis at the Queen's University, The Synthesis of Succinic Acid
      and its Extraction from Fermentation Broth Using a Two-Phase Partitioning Bioreactor
      (April 2011), discloses a process where such cynic acid is produced to inhibitory levels,
      and then the pH of the system was suggested below the pKA2 of succinic acid using
      dissolved carbon dioxide gas to create undissociated product. Polymers with an affinity
      for succinic acid absorbed from the solution, and then the pH was returned to operational
      levels.
[3911 A general understanding of this process may be facilitated by reference to the Figures 10
      and 11. With reference to Figure 10, apparatus 1000 is suitable for the biological
      production of succinic acid on a continuous basis. Apparatus 1000 is depicted as having
      a primary bioreactor 1002 and a polishing bioreactor 1004. Both bioreactors are fluidized
      bed reactors containing biocatalyst, e.g., substantially s described in Example 175. An
      aqueous stream containing sugar and other nutrients is supplied by line 1006 to bioreactor
      1002. Carbon dioxide-containing gas is supplied to the apparatus 1000 via line 1008. A
      portion of the carbon dioxide-containing gas is passed by line 1010 to line 1006 into
      bioreactor 1002. Bioreactor 1002 is maintained under metabolic conditions sufficient for
      conversion of sugar and carbon dioxide to succinate anion. Off gases are removed from
      bioreactor 1002 by line 1012. A continuous stream of the aqueous medium in bioreactor
      1002 is withdrawn by line 1014 and passed to a bioreactor 1004. Bioreactor 1002 is
                                                149

      provided with a screen or other device to essentially prevent biocatalyst passing into line
       1014. To bioreactor 1004 is provided carbon dioxide-containing gas from line 1008 and
      line 1016.
[392] In a typical operation of apparatus 1000, the aqueous medium withdrawn from bioreactor
       1002 via line 1014 contains unreacted sugars and metabolites that can be further
      bioconverted by the microorganisms. Bioreactor 1004 is operated to further reduce the
      concentration of the unreacted sugars and these metabolites and thus no additional sugar
      substrate is provided to a bioreactor 1004 in such an operation. It should be readily
      understood that if desired, additional sugar substrate could be added to the aqueous
      medium in bioreactor 1004.
[393] Bioreactor 1004 is operated under metabolic conditions sufficient to convert substrate to
      succinate anion. Unreacted gases are withdrawn from bioreactor 1004 through line 1018.
      A continuous stream of aqueous medium from bioreactor 1004 is withdrawn via line
       1020. Bioreactor 1004 is provided with a screen or other device to essentially prevent
      biocatalyst from being passed into line 1020. The withdrawn aqueous medium is directed
      to filtration assembly 1022 by line 1020. As the aqueous medium is substantially devoid
      of solids, it is practical for filtration assembly 1022 to be an ultrafiltration assembly. The
      aqueous medium is then passed from filtration assembly 1022 via line 1024 to distillation
      column assembly 1026. In the event that bioreactors 1002 and 1004 are operated
      substantially unbuffered, distillation column assembly 1026 serves to concentrate the
      aqueous medium to facilitate crystallization of the succinic acid. Where an ammonium
      hydroxide buffer is used, distillation column assembly 1026 also serves to convert
      ammonium salts of succinate anion to succinic acid with ammonia being released.
      Distillation column assembly 1026 may comprise one or more unit operations including
      neutralization and filtration of precipitates, intermediate crystallization and re-solvation
      such as disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011/0297527, and the like.
[394] As shown, the overhead from distillation column assembly 1026 exits via line 1028. A
      purge can be taken via line 1030 and the remaining overhead recycled to one or both of
      bioreactors 1002 and 1004 via lines 1034 and 1032, respectively. Where ammonium
      hydroxide buffer is used, the recycle reduces the amount of ammonium hydroxide
                                                   150

      required to be externally provided. It is also possible to operate bioreactor 1004 at a
      lower pH than that used in bioreactor 1002. Thus, in a buffered system, the predominant
      portion of the succinate anion will be the mono salt.
[395] The bottoms stream from distillation column 1026 is passed via line 1036 to
      crystallization unit 1038. Typically, the concentration of succinic acid in the bottoms
      stream is greater than about 30%. The bottoms stream passing to the crystallization unit
      is often cooled to a temperature below about 15'C, say, between about 00 and 10 C.
      Crystalline succinic acid is removed from crystallization unit 1038 via line 1040. The
      supernatant liquid is removed via line 1042.
[3961 Figure 11 depicts an apparatus 1100 having three bioreactors 1102, 1104, and 1106 that
      are operated on a sequential, cyclic routine to bioconvert sugar and carbon dioxide to
      succinic acid. Each of the reactors contain porous matrices having succinic
      acid-producing microorganisms irreversibly retained therein. The bioreactors have an
      internal liquid recycle system to be operated as fluid bed reactors.
[397] Apparatus 1100 is provided with four headers: header 1108 which provides fresh aqueous
      medium containing sugar and other nutrients; header 1110 which provides carbon
      dioxide-containing gas; header 1112 which provides oxygen-containing gas and header
       1114 which provides for fluid transport between the bioreactors. Line assemblies 1116,
       1118, and 1120 connect each of the four headers 1108, 1110, 1112, and 1114 with
      bioreactors 1102, 1104, and 1106, respectively. Each of bioreactors 1102, 1104 and 1106
      are provided with lines 1122, 1124 and 1126, respectively, to permit the egress of gas and
      are provided with lines 1128, 1134 and 1138, respectively, to drained aqueous medium
      from the bioreactors. The drained aqueous medium from a bioreactor is directed either to
      header 1132 or header 1114. For bioreactor 1102 line 1128 is in flow communication
      with line 1130 which is adapted to direct the aqueous medium to one of these headers.
      For bioreactor 1104 line 1134 is in flow communication with line 1136 which is adapted
      to direct the aqueous medium to one of these headers. For bioreactor 1106 line 1138 is in
      flow communication with line 1140 which is adapted to direct the aqueous medium to
      one of these headers.
                                               151

[398] Each of bioreactors 1102, 1104 and 1106 are sequenced between a microaerobic stage, an
      anaerobic, sugar conversion stage, and a carbon dioxide conversion stage. In the
      microaerobic stage, fresh aqueous medium is supplied to a bioreactor that has completed
      the carbon dioxide conversion stage and has been drained of aqueous medium for
      purposes of succinic acid recovery. In this regard, small amounts of oxygen-containing
      gas, e.g., air, are provided from header 1112.
[399] At the conclusion of the microaerobic stage, supply of oxygen-containing gas from
      header 1112 is ceased and the bioreactor enters the anaerobic, sugar conversion stage.
      The anaerobic, sugar conversion stage may be conducted with or without the addition of
      carbon dioxide from header 1110. The anaerobic, sugar conversion stage is conducted
      under metabolic conditions suitable for the production of succinate anion. In some
      embodiments, the metabolic conditions during the microaerobic stage and the anaerobic,
      sugar conversion stage enhance the formation of phosphoenolpyruvate with relatively
      little succinate anion being passed from the porous matrices into the surrounding aqueous
      medium.
[4001 The reactor then passes from the anaerobic, sugar conversion stage to the carbon dioxide
      conversion stage. In the carbon dioxide conversion stage carbon dioxide is supplied from
      header 1112 in an amount sufficient to enhance a portion of the succinate anion being
      derived from carbon dioxide substrate through the conversion of phosphoenolpyruvate.
      The bioreactor is maintained under metabolic conditions favoring the bioconversion of
      carbon dioxide substrate. At the conclusion of the carbon dioxide conversion stage, the
      aqueous medium is drained from the bioreactor and is passed to header 1132 for succinic
      acid recovery. The reactor then cycles back to the microaerobic stage.
[401] As with the apparatus depicted in Figure 10, apparatus 1100 passes the aqueous medium
      withdrawn from the bioreactor having gone through the carbon dioxide conversion stage
      to filtration assembly 1142 and then via line 1144 to distillation assembly 1146. The
      overhead from distillation assembly 1146 exits via line 1148 for recycle to header 1108.
      A purge is taken via line 1150. The bottoms stream from distillation assembly 1146 is
      passed via line 1152 to crystallization assembly 1154. Succinic acid is withdrawn via
      line 1156, and the supernatant liquid is removed via line 1158.
                                                152

[402] Apparatus 1100 can also be operated using a different sequence of stages. One such
      sequence uses water having a substantial absence of sugars and other nutrients in the
      carbon dioxide conversion stage. For description of this sequence, reference is made to
      header 11 08a which supplies such a water stream.
[4031 In the microaerobic stage, the aqueous medium is supplied by another bioreactor that has
      completed the anaerobic, sugar conversion stage. At the conclusion of the microaerobic
      stage the bioreactor enters into the anaerobic, sugar conversion stage as described above,
      but under conditions that minimize the accumulation of succinate anion in the aqueous
      medium. Sugar and other nutrients are provided to the bioreactor via header 1108. The
      sugar and other nutrients are preferably dissolved or slurry in an aqueous medium at a
      sufficient concentration to maintain the sought amount of aqueous medium in the
      bioreactor as well as sufficient concentrations of the sugars and other nutrients for the
      metabolic activity of the microorganisms.
[4041 At the completion of the anaerobic, sugar conversion stage, the aqueous medium is
      withdrawn and passed to a bioreactor entering into the micro-aerobic stage. The aqueous
      medium is replaced with water having a substantial absence of sugar and other nutrients.
      In the carbon dioxide conversion stage, sufficient carbon dioxide is provided to provide,
      under metabolic conditions, succinate anion. Succinic anion passes into the water phase
      which will have reduced concentrations of sugars, other nutrients, and other metabolites
      as compared to the aqueous medium in the anaerobic, sugar conversion stage. Thus, the
      ability to obtain high purity succinic acid is facilitated. Moreover, by recycling the
      aqueous medium from the bioreactor completing the anaerobic, sugar conversion stage to
      the microaerobic stage, certain metabolites such as acetate anion may be consumed by the
      microorganisms for metabolic purposes thereby enhancing the conversion of sugars to
      succinate anion.
[405] In this sequence, a purge stream is taken from header 1114 via line 11 14a to prevent
      undue buildup of undesired components in the aqueous medium, and overhead from
      distillation assembly 1146 can be used to make up at least part of the water for the water
      supplied by header 1 108a via line 1148a.
                                                153

              x. Botyrococci
[4061 Botryococcus, including, but not limited to, Botryococcus braunii,have been proposed
      for the photosynthetic conversion of carbon dioxide to various hydrocarbon and
      oxygenated organic compound bioproducts, often of 8 or 10 to 50 carbon atoms, and
      sometimes between about 20 and 40, carbon atoms ("oils"). Botryococcus species have
      been reported that have up to 75 percent of the dry mass of the microalgae constituting
      hydrocarbons whereas other microalgae may only contain up to about 10 mass percent
      hydrocarbons. Botryococcus species often have a high productivity of bioproducts. The
      bioproducts may be expressed from the cells and depending on the strain or race of the
      species can include odd-numbered hydrocarbons, n-alkadienes, trienes, triterpene
      hydrocarbons, and tetraterpene hydrocarbons. The hydrocarbons can contain oxygen in
      various functional groups.
[407] Although Botryococcus species offer significant potential as a source of biochemicals and
      biofuels, the practical difficulties associated with providing and maintaining a sufficient
      population of Botryococcus species have hindered their adoption on a commercial scale.
      These difficulties include having:
          *   a very slow growth rate;
          *   an oil secretion is primarily in the non-growing phase thus proposals have been
              made to harvest the algae once a sufficient population has been obtained for oil
              recovery;
          *   sensitivity to strong light causing chlorophyll degeneration which may be long
              lasting or permanent;
          *   thick cell walls that are resistant to chemical degradation and hinder oil
              extraction;
          "   sensitivity to hydrodynamic shear; and
          *   an impracticability to use a bioreactor of sufficient size to be competitive for
              supplying oils free of contaminating microorganisms that may consume oils,
              compete for nutrients and produce algaecides.
[408] The biocatalysts described herein that contain Botryococcus species take advantage of the
      metabolic activity of Botryococcus species to provide enhanced process viability. In the
                                                 154

      broad aspects, the processes for the bioconversion of carbon dioxide to bioproducts using
      biocatalyst described herein which contains microalgae comprising a species of
      Botryococcus comprises:
               a.      maintaining the biocatalyst in an aqueous medium, said aqueous medium
               being at metabolic conditions including temperature and the presence of nutrients
               for the microalgae;
               b.      contacting the aqueous medium with carbon dioxide for the bioconversion
               wherein the microalgae secretes bioproduct;
               c.      irradiating the aqueous medium with light at a frequency and intensity
               sufficient for the microalgae to photosynthesize carbon dioxide to bioproduct; and
               d.      removing bioproduct from the aqueous medium.
[4091 The bioconversion may be photosynthetic or heterotrophic where the microalgae have the
      ability to operate in such an environment, or both. Preferably the biocatalyst has a
      smallest dimension of less than about 15, preferably less than about 2, millimeters, say,
      between about 100 microns and 2 millimeters.
[4101 The processes described herein use microalgae comprising species of Botryococcus.
      Preferably the microalgae consist essentially of species of Botryococcus, i.e., a
      monocultural environment exists for the photosynthetic conversion of carbon dioxide to
      bioproduct, or a multicultural environment with bacteria that can enhance the
      performance of Botryococcus species such as disclosed in Wang, et al., Effect of nutrient
      conditions on the growth of Botryococcus braunii,Chinese Journal of Process
      Engineering, 3:141 - 145 (1996), hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The
      species of Botryococcus can be a wild type (naturally occurring) or a recombinant
      microalgae. Examples of species of Botryococcus include, but are not limited to,
      Botryococcus braunii. Numerous strains of Botryococcus braunii are known such as
      horridus,minor, perarmatus,validus, Showa and Ninsei. Other species of Botryococcus
      include, B australis,B. calcareous,B. canadensis, B. comperei, B. fernanoi,B. giganteus,
      B. miromorus, B. neglectus and B. pila. Strains can be further categorized into races such
      as Botryococcus braunii race A, Botryococcus brauniirace B, and Botryococcus braunii
      race L. Strains of Botryococcus braunii are typically preferred due to bioproduct
      production and rates, especially those of the A and B races, and strains of Botryococcus
                                                 155

      braunii race B are most preferred where bioproducts not containing oxygen atoms are
      desired.
[411] One advantageous species of Botryococcus comprises genetically modified Botryococcus
      containing enzyme for metabolizing carbohydrates source, such as sugar, for
      heterotrophic growth. This genetic modification facilitates obtaining a large population
      of Botryococcus to be incorporated into the biocatalyst. The population increase may be
      facilitated through the use of alternative carbon sources such as carbohydrates where the
      microalgae contain suitable enzymes and transporters. Botryococcus braunii typically
      have transporters for glucose.
[4121 The biocatalysts described herein are used in photosynthetic processes to bioconvert
      carbon dioxide to bioproducts. The composition of the bioproducts can vary depending
      upon the strain of Botryococcus used, and can be branched or cyclic hydrocarbons,
      including but not limited to terpenoids of 10 to 50 carbons, and may be substituted with
      oxygen containing moieties such as hydroxyl, alkoxy, acyl, and carboxyl. The
      bioproducts can include biodiesel and other glycerides. The bioproducts are expressed
      from the microalgae, and pass from the porous matrices into the aqueous medium
      containing the porous matrices. A solvent can be used to facilitate collection of the
      bioproducts. A preferred solvent is one that is immiscible with water, solubilizes the
      hydrocarbons or other bioproducts, has a low boiling point, has a density significantly
      different than water, is readily available and inexpensive, is reusable and recyclable, and
      is not extremely toxic to the organisms. Heptane is an example of such a solvent.
[4131 The metabolic processes may be conducted in any suitable manner. The substrate
      comprises carbon dioxide and may include carbohydrate, including C5 and C6 sugars.
      The carbon dioxide may be obtained from any suitable source; however, components that
      are unduly deleterious to the microalgae should be removed prior to contact with the
      biocatalyst. Generally carbon dioxide is supplied in gaseous form, although carbonate
      and bicarbonate salts can be used but are less preferred. Where supplied as a gas, the
      carbon dioxide concentration in the gas is typically the range of about 40 to 100, say, 70
      to 100, volume percent. Sources of carbon dioxide include, but are not limited to, off
      gases from industrial and fermentation processes, exhaust gases from combustion of fuels
                                                156

      and waste materials, natural gas streams containing carbon dioxide, streams from the
      gasification of biomass, e.g., to produce syngas, and the like.
[414] Suitable metabolic conditions using light radiation in an intensity sufficient to provide
      photo-biocatalytic activity include culture liquid can be used including Typical
      Mesophilic Conditions. The light intensity can vary, but is preferably relatively strong,
      e.g., at least about 20, say, between about 20 and 200 or more, microEinsteins per square
      meter per second, for light within the wave range of 400 to 800 nanometers. The
      pressure is not critical and may be ambient, reduced or elevated pressure. Where gaseous
      substrates are used, higher pressures tend to increase the amount of substrate dissolved in
      the culture liquid and thus enhance mass transfer. Often the pH is between about 6.5 and
      8.5, say, 6.5 to 8.0. The metabolic conditions may include the presence of molecular
      oxygen, and if present, in an amount of between about 5 to 50 volume percent based upon
      the volume of carbon dioxide fed to the aqueous medium.
[4151 Usually, the bioconversion activity can be maintained for at least about 30, and often for
      at least about, 300 or more days.
[4161 The chemical product may be recovered from the culture liquid in any suitable manner.
      Continuous or frequent discontinuous removal of the bioproduct is preferred as the
      bioproduct.
                       xi.     Butanol
[4171 The biocatalyst described herein is attractive for the conversion of substrate to butanol
      which may be isobutanol or n-butanol. Both isomers of butanol are toxic at relatively
      low concentrations to microorganisms producing butanol, typically less than about 3
      percent by mass per liter of aqueous medium. The processes using the biocatalyst
      described herein permit higher titers of butanol to be produced thereby reducing costs of
      the water/butanol separation. See, for instance, Tracy, "Improving Butanol Fermentation
      to Enter the Advanced Biofuel Market, mbio.asm.org, vol. 3, 6, November/December
      2012, and Kaminski, et al., Biobutanol - Production and Purification Methods,
      Ecological Chemistry and Engineering S, 18:1, pp. 31 - 37 (2011).
[418] In the broad aspects, the processes for bioconverting substrate to butanol comprise:
                                               157

              a.      contacting an aqueous medium with a biocatalyst described herein, said
                      biocatalyst containing microorganisms capable of bioconverting said
                      substrate to butanol, wherein said aqueous medium is maintained under
                      metabolic conditions including the presence of nutrients for said
                      microorganisms and contains said substrate;
              b.      maintaining the contact between the aqueous medium and biocatalyst for a
                      time sufficient to bioconvert at least a portion of said substrate to butanol;
                      and
              c.      recovering butanol from said aqueous medium.
[419] The butanol may be either isobutanol or n-butanol depending upon the microorganism
      used in the process. The microorganism to be used will also define the substrate.
      Substrates that have found application in producing butanol include carbon dioxide,
      sugars, glycerol and syngas. Microorganisms capable to producing butanol are
      butyrogens and include, but are not limited to, wild-type or recombinant Clostridia,such
      as C. acetobutylicum, C. beijerinckii, C. pasteurianum,C. saccharobutylicum,
      C. saccharoperbutylacetonicum;Oeneococcus oeni; and Ralstonia eutropha, and
      recombinant microorganisms such as . coli into which pathways for making butanol
      have been added. See, for instance, United States published patent application no
      20100143993 for a more extensive discussion of other microorganisms for making
      butanol. Genetically enhanced photoautotrophic cyanobacteria, algae, and other
      photoautotrophic organisms have been adapted to bioconvert carbohydrates internal to
      the microorganism directly to butanol. For example, genetically modified cyanobacteria
      having constructs comprising DNA fragments encoding pyruvate decarboxylase (pdc)
      and alcohol dehydrogenase (adh) enzymes are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,699,696.
[420] Bioconversion conditions are often within Typical Mesophilic Bioconversion Conditions,
      and Typical Bioreactor Systems can be used. Continuous processes are preferred
      especially since the biocatalysts described herein can provide high cell densities and thus,
      together with the enhanced bioconversion rate, provide for high conversion efficiencies
      of substrate with relatively brief average residence times in the bioreactor, e.g., often less
      than about 3 or 4 hours, and sometimes less than about 30 minutes.
                                                158

[421] One aspect of this process is further illustrated in Figure 12 which is a schematic
      depiction of a bioreactor assembly1200 for the production of n-butanol. A
      sugar-containing feedstock is provided via line 1202 to first bioreactor 1204 which is an
      up-flow bioreactor containing an aqueous fermentation medium and biocatalyst for the
      bioconversion of sugar to n-butanol. The biocatalyst contains. In bioreactor 1204, the
      supply of sugar is such that only a portion is bioconverted to butanol and thus provides an
      aqueous medium containing about 6 to 8 volume percent butanol. Aqueous medium from
      first bioreactor 1204 is passed via line 1206 to second bioreactor 1208 where the
      remaining sugars are bioconverted. Second bioreactor 1208 is a fluidized bed bioreactor.
      Second bioreactor 1208 contains an aqueous medium with biocatalyst containing
      Clostridiaacetobutyricum. In second bioreactor, some of the remaining sugar is
      bioconverted to provide an aqueous medium containing about 10 volume percent butanol.
      Due to the higher concentration of butanol in second reactor 1208, the bioconversion rate
      to butanol is less than about 50 percent of that in first bioreactor 1204. Aqueous medium
      is withdrawn from second bioreactor 1208 and passed to decanter 1214 to provide an
      upper phase containing n-butanol which is passed via line 1216 to product recovery. The
      high concentration of butanol in line 1216 facilitates the recovery of butanol with a
      substantial saving in energy costs.
[422] A butanol-saturated aqueous phase is returned via line 1218 from decanter 1214 to
      second bioreactor 1208 and contains about 7 to 8 volume percent butanol and unreacted
      sugars, ethanol and acetone. A purge is removed via line 1220 to maintain steady-state
      conditions. This stream can be used for product recovery to obtain ethanol, acetone and
      butanol. Second bioreactor 1208 can be operated such that with the recycle rate of the
      aqueous medium, only a portion of the sugar is bioconverted, but that converted to
      butanol goes to a butanol phase for recovery. If required, additional water and nutrients
      can be provided to first bioreactor 1204 via line 1222.
[423] The bioreactor assembly, while described in connection with making n-butanol, is useful
      for the bioconversion of substrates where the bioconversion activity of the biocatalyst
      decreases with increased bioproduct concentration in the aqueous medium and where the
      bioproduct can form a separate liquid phase. In its broad aspects, these continuous
                                                159

processes for the bioconversion of substrate to bioproduct using a microorganism capable
of such bioconversion wherein the bioproduct is toxic to the microorganism comprise:
        a.       continuously supplying substrate and aqueous medium to at least one first
       bioreactor containing aqueous medium, said at least one first bioreactor having
       therein biocatalyst described herein comprising said microorganism;
        b.       maintaining said at least one first bioreactor under metabolic conditions
        and continuously withdrawing a first reactor effluent from said at least one first
       bioreactor at a rate sufficient to maintain steady-state conditions and provide a
       hydraulic residence time sufficient to bioconvert a portion of the substrate, said a
        first bioreactor effluent containing unconsumed substrate and bioproduct, wherein
       the bioconversion activity to said bioproduct in said at least one first bioreactor is
        at a first rate;
        c.       continuously supplying the withdrawn first bioreactor effluent to at least
        one subsequent bioreactor containing aqueous medium, said at least one
        subsequent bioreactor having therein biocatalyst described herein comprising said
       microorganism;
        d.       maintaining said at least one subsequent bioreactor under metabolic
        conditions and continuously withdrawing a subsequent bioreactor effluent from
        said at least one subsequent bioreactor at a rate sufficient to maintain steady-state
        conditions and provide a hydraulic residence time sufficient to bioconvert at least
        a portion of the substrate, said a subsequent bioreactor effluent containing
        bioproduct, wherein the bioconversion activity to said bioproduct in said at least
        one subsequent bioreactor is at a second rate which is lower than the first rate;
        e.       continuously separating a bioproduct-rich stream from said withdrawn
        subsequent bioreactor effluent for product recovery and provide a residual
        aqueous stream; and
        f.       continuously recycling at least a portion of the residual aqueous stream to
        at least one subsequent bioreactor.
                                           160

[424] In many instances the subsequent bioreactor effluent contains substrate. In preferred
      aspects of this process, the at least one subsequent bioreactor comprises a fluidized bed
      bioreactor. The separation of step (e) may be by any suitable separation technique,
      including but not limited to, Typical Separation Techniques. In preferred aspects, the
      bioproduct is capable of forming a separate liquid phase in the aqueous medium and at
      least in the at least one subsequent bioreactor, the concentration of the bioproduct forms a
      separate liquid phase and the subsequent bioreactor effluent is subjected to phase
      separation to provide a bioproduct-containing phase and the residual aqueous phase. In
      some preferred aspects, especially where the bioproduct forms a separate liquid phase,
      the subsequent bioreactor effluent and the recycle of the residual aqueous stream are at
      rates sufficient to maintain a desired second rate of bioconversion activity and form the
      second liquid phase. Often, only a portion of the substrate is bioconverted in said at least
      one subsequent bioreactor, and a sufficient concentration of substrate is maintained in the
      aqueous medium in the at least one subsequent bioreactor to enhance the rate of
      conversion of substrate to bioproduct.
      Examples 225 to 231
[425] A series of seven batch fermentation experiments are conducted using the following
      general procedure. In each experiment, a biocatalyst substantially as described in
      Example 93 is used which has a nominal diameter of about 4 millimeters and is
      maintained under an anaerobic environment of nitrogen. A batch medium is prepared in
      accordance with ATCC@ Medium 2107, a modified reinforced Clostridial agar/broth
      medium, as follows:
               Combine 38 grams of reinforced clostridial medium BD 218081 (ATCC,
              Manassas, Virginia); 14.5 g of agar and 1000 milliliters of deionized water and
              boil to dissolve the agar,
               Separately prepare a solution of 10 grams of peptone, 10 grams of beef extract,
               3 grams of yeast extract, 5 grams of dextrose, 5 grams of sodium chloride, 1 gram
               of soluble starch, 0.5 gram of L-cysteine hydrochloride, 3 grams of sodium
               acetate and 4 milliliters of Resazurin (0.025%) in 1000 milliliters of deionized
              water, and
                                                 161

               Combine the solutions.
        Glucose is added to the combined solution at either 60 or 120 grams per liter, and the
        solution is adjusted to a pH of about 5.5 with 5N sodium hydroxide. The batch medium
        is then made anaerobic by autoclaving at 121 C for 20 minutes while sparging with
        nitrogen that had been passed through a 0.2 micron filer. Each batch fermentation is
        conducted in a sealed tank reactor and about 2 milliliters of the batch medium is used
        per gram of biocatalyst. Into some of the reactors, n-butanol is injected to determine the
        effect of n-butanol on the biocatalysts and the fermentation. The fermentations are
        conducted at a temperature of about 37'C, and samples of the fermentation broth are
        taken periodically and analyzed by gas chromatography. The fermentations continue for
        48 hours. The data are summarized in Table VI.
                                                TABLE VI
              Example        Glucose added,       n-Butanol                  Comments
                                   g/L          added, vol %
                225                120                0                Butanol being produced
                226                120                2                Butanol being produced
                227                120                5                Butanol being produced
                228                120                10            Butanol being produced at
                                                                 reduced rate, two phases in broth
                229                 60                10            Butanol being produced at
                                                                 reduced rate, two phases in broth
                230                120                15            Butanol being produced at
                                                                 reduced rate, two phases in broth
                231                120                22            Butanol being produced at
                                                                 reduced rate, two phases in broth
               xii.    Ethanol
[4261 The biocatalyst described herein is attractive for the conversion of substrate to ethanol.
      The maximum titer of ethanol in fermentation broths using yeasts is typically about 15 to
       18 percent, and the conversion efficiency of substrate such as sugars and syngas to
      ethanol in commercial processes using yeasts is typically less than about 95 percent of
      theoretical. With other ethanol-producing microorganisms such as cyanobacteria and
      Clostridia,their sensitivity to ethanol concentrations may be much greater than those of
      yeasts. For instance, it has been reported that 1.5 volume percent ethanol causes a 50
                                                162

      percent growth decrease in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. Hence, processes using these
      alternative microorganisms generate very dilute ethanol-containing broths. United States
      patent no. 7,682,821 B2 discloses a closed photobioreactor using daily ambient
      temperature swings as a means to reduce the cost of ethanol separation. The processes
      using the biocatalyst described herein permit higher titers of ethanol to be produced
      thereby reducing costs of the water/ethanol separation, and the conversion efficiency
      approaches nearly the theoretical efficiency due to the phenotypic changes to the
      microorganism in the biocatalysts described herein.
[427] In the broad aspects, the processes for bioconverting substrate to ethanol comprise:
              a.      contacting an aqueous medium with a biocatalyst described herein, said
                      biocatalyst containing microorganisms capable of bioconverting said
                      substrate to ethanol, wherein said aqueous medium is maintained under
                      metabolic conditions including the presence of nutrients for said
                      microorganisms and contains said substrate;
              b.      maintaining the contact between the aqueous medium and biocatalyst for a
                      time sufficient to bioconvert at least a portion of said substrate to ethanol;
                      and
              c.      recovering ethanol from said aqueous medium.
[428] The microorganism to be used will define the substrate. Substrates that have found
      application in producing ethanol include carbon dioxide, sugars and syngas.
      Microorganisms capable to producing ethanol included, but are not limited to, wild-type
      or recombinant bacteria and yeasts, e.g., Clostridia, such as C. ljungdahlii, Clostridium
      aceticum, and C. thermoaceticum, Acetogenium kivui, Acetobacterium woodii,
      Acetoanaerobium noterae, Butyribacterium methylotrophicum, Eubacterium limosurn,
      Zymomonas mobilis, Zymomonas palmae, mesophilic yeasts such as Pichiastipitis,
      Pichiasegobiensis, Candidashehatae, Candida tropicalis, Candidaboidinii, Candida
      tenuis, Pachysolen tannophilus,Hansenulapolymorpha, Candidafamata,Candida
      parapsilosis,Candidarugosa, Candica sonorensis, Issatchenkiaterricola,Kloeckera
      apis, Pichiabarkeri, Pichiacactophila,Pichiadeserticola,Pichianorvegensis, Pichia
      membranefaciens, Pichia mexicana, Sacchrimyces cervisea and Torulasporadelbrueckii
                                               163

      and thermophilic yeasts such as Candidabovina, Candidapicachoensis, Candida
      emberorum, Candidapintolopesii, Candida thermophila, Kluyveromyces marxianus,
      Kluyveromycesfragilis, Kazachstaniatelluris, Issatchenkia orientalis and Lachancea
      thermotolerans. Thermophylic bacteria include, among others, Clostridium
      thermocellum, Clostridium thermohydrosulphuricum,Clostridium
      thermosaccharolyticum, Thermoanaerobiumbrockii, Thermobacteroidesacetoethylicus,
      Thermoanaerobacterethanolicus, Clostridium thermoaceticum, Clostridium
      thermoautotrophicum,Acetogenium kivui, Desulfotomaculum nigrificans and
      Desulvovibrio thermophilus, Thermoanaerobactertengcongensis, Bacillus
      stearothermophilusand Thermoanaerobactermathranii.Genetically enhanced
      photoautotrophic cyanobacteria, algae, and other photoautotrophic organisms have been
      adapted to bioconvert carbohydrates internal to the microorganism to ethanol. For
      example, genetically modified cyanobacteria having constructs comprising DNA
      fragments encoding pyruvate decarboxylase (pdc) and alcohol dehydrogenase (adh)
      enzymes are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6,699,696. cyanobacteria are photosynthetic
      bacteria which require light, inorganic elements, water, and a carbon source, generally
      carbon dioxide, to metabolize and grow. The production of ethanol using genetically
      engineered cyanobacteria has also been described in PCT Published Patent Application
      WO 2007/084477. See also United States published patent application no. 20120301937
      for a listing of ethanol-producing microorganisms.
[4291 Bioconversion conditions are often within Typical Mesophilic Bioconversion Conditions,
      and Typical Bioreactor Systems can be used. Continuous processes are preferred
      especially since the biocatalysts described hereinn can provide high cell densities and
      thus, together with the enhanced bioconversion rate, provide for high conversion
      efficiencies of substrate with relatively brief average residence times in the bioreactor,
      e.g., often less than about 3 or 4 hours, and sometimes less than about 30 minutes.
[430] For photosynthetic processes, the combination of high concentrations of cells per unit
      volume of liquid culture medium, the essential absence of debris from the
      microorganisms thus providing a clearer culture medium and the phenotypic changes
      associated with the biocatalysts described herein, enables a significant increase in ethanol
      that can be generated per unit time per unit surface area. Hence, smaller footprints are
                                                164

      required for the photobioreactors, and the closed processes such as disclosed in United
      States patent no. 7,682,821 can generated even higher concentrations of ethanol in the
      condensate. Additionally, since in situ sterilization can be used, more reliable operations
      can occur as the population of any contaminating microorganisms can be controlled. The
      photobioreactor can contain a liquid culture medium with the biocatalysts therein. The
      substrate, e.g., carbon dioxide, can be dissolved in the culture medium, or the biocatalyst
      can be contacted with gaseous substrate and then ethanol can be removed from the
      biocatalyst, for instance, by evaporation or by contact with an extractant for ethanol such
      as water.
      Example 232
[431] A fluidized bed bioreactor is charged to about 75 volume percent of its capacity with
      biocatalyst substantially as described in example 147. A continuous flow of water
      containing glucose at a concentration of either 120 grams per liter or 250 grams per liter
      is provided to the bioreactor at various rates to provide hydraulic residence times of either
      4 or 10 hours. The bioreactor is maintained at a temperature of about 37'C. The effluent
      from the bioreactor is periodically analyzed for ethanol and glucose concentrations. At
      the 4 hour hydraulic retention time, the conversion of sugars yields about 95 to 97 percent
      of theoretical ethanol production at each glucose concentration. At the 10 hour hydraulic
      retention time, the conversion of sugars yields about 98 to 99 percent of theoretical
      ethanol production at each glucose concentration.
                       xiii.  Anaerobic digestion
[4321 As discussed above, municipal wastewater is often subjected to an aerobic bioconversion.
      Supplying oxygen to the bioreactor is a significant expense, even is air is used as the
      oxygen-containing gas, to the municipal wastewater facility and often is at least about 30
      percent of the overall costs. Moreover, where tertiary treatment is required, an anaerobic
      bioconversion is used, and thus the oxygen concentration in the water being treated must
      be lowered. To meet regulatory requirements established in a number of jurisdictions,
      the wastewater treatment must reduce the organic content as well as reduce or
      substantially eliminate pathogens.
                                                165

[433] Mesophilic anaerobic digestion has been proposed. While eliminating the costs of
      oxygen supply, such processes suffer from a number of drawbacks. Maintaining
      effective populations of microorganisms has proven difficult, especially since both
      acidogenesis and methanogenesis must be supported. The residence time is long, often in
      the range of 15 days, and the process often does not provide sufficient reduction of
      pathogens.
[434] Thermophilic anaerobic digestion does provide an advantage of a shorter residence time
      and a better ability to treat pathogens. See, for instance, United States published patent
      application no. 2013010539. Maintaining the population of microorganisms still remains
      problematic, and the wastewater must be brought up to and maintained at a temperature
      of at least 45'C for operation of the thermophilic microorganisms.
[435] The biocatalysts described herein provide for improvements in the anaerobic digestion of
      wastewater in that not only can the thermophilic microorganisms be targeted for the
      biocatalyst as opposed to conventional systems where the microorganisms are often
      derived from the sludge, but also the biocatalyst can provide a high concentration of the
      thermophilic microorganisms per unit of bioreactor volume. The rate of bioconversion,
      and thus the hydraulic residence time, can be reduced. More importantly, since the
      thermophilic anaerobic bioconversion is exothermic, the high concentration of
      microorganisms effectively serves as a heat source to obtain and maintain thermophilic
      bioconversion temperatures. Also, as the thermophiles are in the biocatalyst described
      herein, the processes are useful even for treating waste water having a low organic
      content.
[436] The processes for thermophilic anaerobic digestion of wastewater containing organic
      compound comprise:
               a.      contacting under thermophilic conditions said wastewater with biocatalyst
               described herein containing thermophilic microorganisms suitable for the
               bioconversion of organic compounds to methane, preferably said thermophilic
               conditions comprise a temperature of at least about 45'C, say, between about
               47'C and 65'C or 70'C, for a time sufficient to reduce the concentration of
               organic compound, preferably to a BOD of less than about 10, preferably less
                                                166

               than about 4, milligrams of oxygen per liter, to provide a treated water and a
               biogas,
               b.      separating the biogas from the wastewater and
               c.      separating the treated water from the biocatalyst.
[4371 Preferably the microorganism used in the biocatalyst comprises a methanogen, especially
      one or more of the following microorganisms Methanosarcinaacetivorans,
      Methanothermobacterthermautotrophicus,Methanobrevibactersmithii,
      Methanospirillumhungatei, CandidatusBrocadia anammoxidans, Kuenenia sp.,
      Anammoxoglobus sp., Jettenia sp., and Scalindua sp.. The cell concentration in the
      biocatalyst is preferably at least about 100 or 200 grams per liter. Usually the
      bioconversion conditions include maintaining a pH in the range of about 6.5 to 9, say,
      about 7 to 8.5. Often the oxygen concentration in the wastewater to be contacted with the
      biocatalyst is less than about 2 milligrams per liter. Any suitable bioreactor configuration
      can be used including, but not limited to, Typical Bioreactor Systems. Preferably the
      bioreactor contains sufficient biocatalyst to provide at least about 100 grams of cells per
      liter of capacity.
                       xiv.    Other applications
[4381 The properties of the biocatalysts described herein enable a wide range of specific
      applications. For instance, the ability to achieve a high population of microorganisms
      with a stable population make the biocatalysts described herein useful for biological
      detection devices; coatings including but not limited to, antifouling paint and coatings
      such as for ship hulls and other surfaces immersed in surface water; and filters to remove
      undesirable components from gases and liquids. The biocatalysts can be used in
      biological fuel cells.
[439] The biocatalysts described herein can be used for producing hydrogen or hydrogen
      equivalents using mesophilic or thermophilic, anaerobic or facultative anaerobic
      microorganisms. The hydrogen can be recovered or used in another chemical or
      metabolic process. In one such process, methane can be used to produce hydrogen and
      then the hydrogen used to reduce sulfate to sulfide using sulfate-reducing
                                                167

      microorganisms. Since the microorganisms are irreversibly retained in the biocatalysts,
      co-cultures, either in the same or different biocatalysts, can be maintained.
[440] The biocatalysts described herein can find application in methanogenesis of carbonaceous
      substrates especially to methane. The microorganisms having this bioactivity are
      typically syntrophs, and the biocatalyst enhances the stability of the syntrophic system.
[441] The biocatalysts described herein can be used to produce alkenes such as ethylene,
      propylene, butene, butadiene and styrene from, e.g., carbohydrates such as sugars,
      syngas, and carbon dioxide. See, for instance, United States published patent application
      20130122563.
[442] The biocatalysts described herein can be used for treatment of various ground, surface,
      municipal wastewater and industrial water streams as set forth above. Additionally,
      beneficial applications include anaerobic digestion, removal of sulfate and sulfite anions,
      and as a layered catalyst for conducting aerobic wastewater treatment.
[4431 In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
      external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
      providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
      otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission
      that such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or
      form part of the common general knowledge in the art.
[4441 In the description in this specification reference may be made to subject matter that is not
      within the scope of the claims of the current application. That subject matter should be
      readily identifiable by a person skilled in the art and may assist in putting into practice
      the invention as defined in the claims of this application.
                                                 168

                                           APPENDIX A
Representative microorganisms include, without limitation, Acetobacter sp., Acetobacter aceti,
Achromobacter,Acidiphilium, Acidovorax delafieldi P4-1, Acinetobacter sp. (A. calcoaceticus),
Actinomadura,Actinoplanes, Actinomycetes, Aeropyrum pernix, Agrobacterium sp., Alcaligenes
sp. (A. dentrificans),Alloiococcus otitis, Ancylobacter aquaticus,Ananas comosus (M),
Arthrobactersp., Arthrobactersulfurous, Arthrobactersp. (A. protophormiae),Aspergillus sp.,
Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus oryze, Aspergillus melleus, Aspergillus pulverulentus, Aspergillus
saitoi,Aspergillus sojea, Aspergillus usamii, Bacillus alcalophilus,Bacillus amyloliquefaciens,
Bacillus brevis, Bacillus circulans,Bacillus clausii,Bacillus cereus, Bacillus lentus, Bacillus
licheniformis, Bacillus macerans, Bacillus stearothermophilus,Bacillus subtilis, Beijerinckia sp.,
Bifidobacterium,Brevibacterium sp. HL4, Brettanomyces sp., Brevibacillus brevis, Burkholderia
cepacia, Campylobacterjejuni,Candida sp., Candidacylindracea, Candidarugosa,
Carboxydothermus (Carboxydothermus hydrogenoformans), Caricapapaya (L),
Cellulosimicrobium,Cephalosporium,Chaetomium erraticum, Chaetomium gracile, Chlorella
sp., Citrobacter,Clostridium sp., Clostridium butyricum, Clostridium acetobutylicum,
Clostridium kluyveri, Clostridium carboxidivorans,Clostridium thermocellum,
Cornynebacteriumsp. strain ml 5, Corynebacterium (glutamicum), Corynebacterium efficiens,
Deinococcus radiophilus,Dekkera, Dekkera bruxellensis, Escherichiacoli, Enterobactersp.,
Enterococcus,Enterococcusfaecium, Enterococcus gallinarium,Enterococcusfaecalis,Erwinia
sp., Erwinia chrysanthemi, Gliconobacter,Gluconacetobactersp., Hansenulasp., Haloarcula,
Humicola insolens, Humicola nsolens, Kitasatosporasetae, Klebsiella sp., Klebsiella oxytoca,
Klebsiellapneumonia, Kluyveromyces sp., Kluyveromycesfragilis, Kluyveromyces lactis,
Kocuria,Lactlactis, Lactobacillus sp., Lactobacillusfermentum,Lactobacillussake,
Lactococcus, Lactococcus lactis, Leuconostoc, Methylosinus trichosporum OB3b,
Methylosporovibrio methanica 812, Methanothrix sp. Methanosarcinasp., Methanomonas sp.,
Methylocystis, Methanospirilium,Methanolobus siciliae, Methanogenium organophilum,
Methanobaceriumsp., Methanobacteriumbryantii,Methanococcus sp., Methanomicrobium sp.,
Methanoplanus sp., Methanosphaerasp., Methanolobus sp., Methanoculleus sp., Methanosaeta
sp., Methanopyrus sp., Methanocorpusculum sp., Methanosarcina,Methylococcus sp.,
Methylomonas sp., Methylosinus sp., Microbacteriumimperiale,Micrococcus sp., Micrococcus
lysodeikticus, Microlunatus,Moorella (e.g., Moorella (Clostridium) thermoacetica),Moraxella
                                                169

 sp. (strainB), Morganella,Mucorjavanicus,Mycobacterium sp. strain GP 1, Myrothecium,
 Neptunomonas naphthovorans, Nitrobacter,Nitrosomonas (Nitrosomonas europea), Nitzchia
 sp., Nocardiasp., Pachysolen sp., Pantoea,Papayacarica,Pediococcus sp., Pediococcus
 halophilus, Penicillium,Penicillium camemberti, Penicillium citrinum, Penicillium emersonii,
 Penicilliumroqueforti, Penicillum lilactinum, Penicillum multicolor,Phanerochaete
 chrysoporium, Pichia sp., Pichiastipitis, Paracoccuspantotrophus,Pleurotus ostreatus,
 Propionibacteriumsp., Proteus,Pseudomonas (P. pavonaceae,Pseudomonas ADP, P. stutzeri,
 P. putida, Pseudomonas Strain PSI, P. cepacia G4, P. medocina KR, P. picketti PKO1, P.
 vesicularis,P. paucimobilis,Pseudomonas .sp.DLC-P1 1, P. mendocina, P. chichhori, strain IST
  103,), Pseudomonasfluorescens, Pseudomonas denitrificans,Pyrococcus, Pyrococcusfuriosus,
 Pyrococcus horikoshii,Ralstonia sp., Rhizobium, Rhizomucor miehei, Rhizomucorpusillus
 Lindt, Rhizopus, Rhizopus delemar, Rhizopus japonicus, Rhizopus niveus, Rhizopus oryzae,
 Rhizopus oligosporus, Rhodococcus, (R. erythropolis,R. rhodochrousNCIMB 13064,),
 Salmonella, Saccharomyces sp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Schizochytriu sp., Sclerotina
 libertina,Serratiasp., Shigella, Sphingobacteriummultivorum, Sphingobium (Sphingbium
 chlorophenolicum), Sphingomonas (S. yanoikuyae, S. sp. RW1), Streptococcus, Streptococcus
 thermophilus Y-I, Streptomyces, Streptomyces griseus, Streptomyces lividans, Streptomyces
 murinus, Streptomyces rubiginosus,Streptomyces violaceoruber,Streptoverticillium
 mobaraense,Synechococcus sp., Synechocystis sp., Tetragenococcus, Thermus, Thiosphaera
pantotropha,Trametes, Trametes versicolor, Trichoderma, Trichoderma longibrachiatum,
 Trichoderma reesei, Trichoderma viride, Trichosporonsp., Trichosporonpenicillatum, Vibrio
 alginolyticus, Xanthomonas, Xanthobactersp. (X autotrophicusGJ 10, X flavus), yeast, Yarrow
 lipolytica, Zygosaccharomyces rouxii, Zymomonas sp., Zymomonus mobilis, Geobacter
 sulfurreducens, Geobacterlovleyi, Geobacter metallireducens,Bacteroidessuccinogens,
 Butyrivibriofibrisolvens, Clostridium cellobioparum,Ruminococcus albus, Ruminococcus
flavefaciens, Eubacterium cellulosolvens, Clostridium cellulosolvens, Clostridium cellulovorans,
 Clostridium thermocellum, Bacteroides cellulosolvens, andAcetivibrio cellulolyticus Gliricidia
 sp., Albizia sp., or Parthenium sp. Cupriavidusbasilensis, Cupriaviduscampinensis,
 Cupriavidusgilardi,Cupriavidus laharsis,Cupriavidus metallidurans,Cupriavidusoxalaticus,
 Cupriaviduspauculus, Cupriaviduspinatubonensis, Cupriavidusrespiraculi,Cupriavidus
 taiwanensis, Oligotrophacarboxidovorans,Thiobacillus sp., Thiobacillus denitrificans,
                                                170

 Thiobacillus thioxidans, Thiobacillusferrooxidans, Thiobacillus concretivorus, Acidithiobacillus
 albertensis,Acidithiobacillus caldus, Acidithiobacilluscuprithermicus,Rhodopseudomonas,
 Rhodopseudomonaspalustris,Rhodobactersphaeroides,Rhodopseudomonas capsulate,
 Rhodopseudomonas acidophila,Rhodopseudomonas viridis, Desulfotomaculum,
 Desulfotomaculum acetoxidans,Desulfotomaculum kuznetsovii, Desulfotomaculum nigrificans,
 Desulfotomaculum reducens, Desulfotomaculum carboxydivorans,Methanosarcinabarkeri,
 Methanosarcinaacetivorans,Moorella thermoacetica, Carboxydothermus hydrogenoformans,
 Rhodospirillum rubrum, Acetobacterium woodii, Butyribacterium methylotrophicum,
 Clostridium autoethanogenum, Clostridium ljungdahlii,Eubacterium limosum, Oxobacter
pfennigii, Peptostreptococcusproductus,RhodopseudomonaspalustrisP4, Rubrivivax
 gelatinosus, Citrobactersp Y19, Methanosarcinaacetivorans C2A, Methanosarcinabarkeri,
 Desulfosporosinusorientis, Desulfovibrio desulfuricans,Desulfovibrio vulgaris, Moorella
 thermoautotrophica,Carboxydibrachiumpacificus, Carboxydocella thermoautotrophica,
 Thermincola carboxydiphila, Thermolithobactercarboxydivorans, Thermosinus
 carboxydivorans, Methanothermobacterthermoautotrophicus,Desulfotomaculum
 carboxydivorans, Desulfotomaculum kuznetsovii, Desulfotomaculum nigrificans,
 Desulfotomaculum thermobenzoicum subsp. thermosyntrophicum, Syntrophobacter
fumaroxidans, Clostridium acidurici,Desulfovibrio ajricanus, C. pasteurianum,C.
pasteurianumDSM 525, Paenibacilluspolymyxa, Acanthoceras, Acanthococcus, Acaryochloris,
Achnanthes, Achnanthidium, Actinastrum, Actinochloris, Actinocyclus, Actinotaenium,
Amphichrysis, Amphidinium, Amphikrikos, Amphipleura, Amphiprora,Amphithrix, Amphora,
Anabaena, Anabaenopsis,Aneumastus, Ankistrodesmus, Ankyra, Anomoeoneis, Apatococcus,
Aphanizomenon, Aphanocapsa,Aphanochaete, Aphanothece, Apiocystis, Apistonema,
Arthrodesmus, Artherospira,Ascochloris, Asterionella, Asterococcus, Audouinella, Aulacoseira,
 Bacillaria,Balbiania,Bambusina, Bangia, Basichlamys, Batrachospermum,Binuclearia,
 Bitrichia,Blidingia, Botrdiopsis,Botrydium, Botryococcus, Botryosphaerella,Brachiomonas,
 Brachysira,Brachytrichia,Brebissonia,Bulbochaete, Bumilleria,Bumilleriopsis, Caloneis,
 Calothrix,Campylodiscus, Capsosiphon, Carteria,Catena, Cavinula, Centritractus,
 Centronella,Ceratium, Chaetoceros, Chaetochloris,Chaetomorpha, Chaetonella, Chaetonema,
 Chaetopeltis, Chaetophora,Chaetosphaeridium,Chamaesiphon, Chara, Characiochloris,
 Characiopsis,Characium, Charales, Chilomonas, Chlainomonas, Chlamydoblepharis,
                                                171

Chlamydocapsa, Chlamydomonas, Chlamydomonopsis, Chlamydomyxa, Chlamydonephris,
Chlorangiella,Chlorangiopsis,Chlorella,Chlorobotrys, Chlorobrachis,Chlorochytrium,
Chlorococcum, Chlorogloea,Chlorogloeopsis,Chlorogonium, Chlorolobion, Chloromonas,
Chlorophysema, Chlorophyta, Chlorosaccus, Chlorosarcina,Choricystis, Chromophyton,
Chromulina, Chroococcidiopsis,Chroococcus, Chroodactylon, Chroomonas, Chroothece,
Chrysamoeba, Chrysapsis, Chrysidiastrum, Chrysocapsa,Chrysocapsella, Chrysochaete,
Chrysochromulina,Chrysococcus, Chrysocrinus, Chrysolepidomonas,Chrysolykos,
Chrysonebula, Chrysophyta, Chrysopyxis, Chrysosaccus, Chrysophaerella,
Chrysostephanosphaera,Clodophora,Clastidium, Closteriopsis,Closterium, Coccomyxa,
Cocconeis, Coelastrella,Coelastrum, Coelosphaerium,Coenochloris, Coenococcus,
Coenocystis, Colacium, Coleochaete, Collodictyon, Compsogonopsis, Compsopogon,
Conjugatophyta,Conochaete, Coronastrum, Cosmarium, Cosmioneis, Cosmocladium,
Crateriportula,Craticula, Crinalium, Crucigenia,Crucigeniella,Cryptoaulax, Cryptomonas,
Cryptophyta, Ctenophora, Cyanodictyon, Cyanonephron, Cyanophora, Cyanophyta,
Cyanothece, Cyanothomonas, Cyclonexis, Cyclostephanos, Cyclotella, Cylindrocapsa,
Cylindrocystis, Cylindrospermum, Cylindrotheca, Cymatopleura, Cymbella, Cymbellonitzschia,
Cystodinium Dactylococcopsis, Debarya,Denticula,Dermatochrysis,Dermocarpa,
Dermocarpella,Desmatractum,Desmidium, Desmococcus, Desmonema, Desmosiphon,
Diacanthos,Diacronema,Diadesmis,Diatoma,Diatomella,Dicellula,Dichothrix,
Dichotomococcus,Dicranochaete,Dictyochloris, Dictyococcus, Dictyosphaerium,Didymocystis,
Didymogenes, Didymosphenia,Dilabifilum, Dimorphococcus,Dinobryon, Dinococcus,
Diplochloris,Diploneis,Diplostauron,Distrionella,Docidium, Draparnaldia,Dunaliella,
Dysmorphococcus, Ecballocystis, Elakatothrix,Ellerbeckia, Encyonema, Enteromorpha,
Entocladia,Entomoneis, Entophysalis, Epichrysis, Epipyxis, Epithemia, Eremosphaera,
Euastropsis,Euastrum,Eucapsis, Eucocconeis, Eudorina,Euglena, Euglenophyta, Eunotia,
Eustigmatophyta,Eutreptia,Fallacia,Fischerella,Fragilaria,Fragilariforma,Franceia,
Frustulia,Curcilla, Geminella, Genicularia,Glaucocystis, Glaucophyta, Glenodiniopsis,
Glenodinium, Gloeocapsa,Gloeochaete, Gloeochrysis, Gloeococcus, Gloeocystis,
Gloeodendron, Gloeomonas, Gloeoplax, Gloeothece, Gloeotila, Gloeotrichia,Gloiodictyon,
Golenkinia, Golenkiniopsis, Gomontia, Gomphocymbella, Gomphonema, Gomphosphaeria,
Gonatozygon, Gongrosia, Gongrosira,Goniochloris, Gonium, Gonyostomum, Granulochloris,
                                             172

Granulocystopsis,Groenbladia,Gymnodinium, Gymnozyga, Gyrosigma, Haematococcus,
Hafniomonas,Hallassia,Hammatoidea,Hannaea,Hantzschia,Hapalosiphon,Haplotaenium,
Haptophyta, Haslea, Hemidinium, Hemitoma, Heribaudiella,Heteromastix, Heterothrix,
Hibberdia,Hildenbrandia,Hillea, Holopedium, Homoeothrix, Hormanthonema,Hormotila,
Hyalobrachion,Hyalocardium, Hyalodiscus,Hyalogonium, Hyalotheca,Hydrianum,
Hydrococcus, Hydrocoleum, Hydrocoryne,Hydrodictyon, Hydrosera,Hydrurus, Hyella,
Hymenomonas, Isthmochloron, Johannesbaptistia,Juranyiella,Karayevia,Kathablepharis,
Katodinium, Kephyrion, Keratococcus, Kirchneriella,Klebsormidium, Kolbesia, Koliella,
Komarekia, Korshikoviella, Kraskella, Lagerheimia,Lagynion, Lamprothamnium,Lemanea,
Lepocinclis, Leptosira, Lobococcus, Lobocystis, Lobomonas, Luticola, Lyngbya, Malleochloris,
Mallomonas, Mantoniella,Marssoniella,Martyana, Mastigocoleus, Gastogloia,Melosira,
Merismopedia,Mesostigma, Mesotaenium, Micractinium, Micrasterias,Microchaete,
Microcoleus, Microcystis, Microglena, Micromonas,Microspora,Microthamnion,
Mischococcus, Monochrysis, Monodus, Monomastix, Monoraphidium,Monostroma, Mougeotia,
Mougeotiopsis, Myochloris, Myromecia, Myxosarcina, Naegeliella, Nannochloris,Nautococcus,
Navicula, Neglectella, Neidium, Nephroclamys, Nephrocytium, Nephrodiella,Nephroselmis,
Netrium, Nitella, Nitellopsis, Nitzschia, Nodularia,Nostoc, Ochromonas, Oedogonium,
Oligochaetophora,Onychonema, Oocardium, Oocystis, Opephora, Ophiocytium, Orthoseira,
Oscillatoria,Oxyneis, Pachycladella,Palmella,Palmodictyon, Pnadorina,Pannus,Paralia,
Pascherina,Paulschulzia,Pediastrum,Pedinella,Pedinomonas, Pedinopera,Pelagodictyon,
Penium, Peranema,Peridiniopsis,Peridinium,Peronia,Petroneis, Phacotus,Phacus,
Phaeaster,Phaeodermatium,Phaeophyta,Phaeosphaera,Phaeothamnion,Phormidium,
Phycopeltis, Phyllariochloris,Phyllocardium,Phyllomitas,Pinnularia,Pitophora,Placoneis,
Planctonema,Planktosphaeria,Planothidium,Plectonema, Pleodorina,Pleurastrum,
Pleurocapsa,Pleurocladia,Pleurodiscus,Pleurosigma,Pleurosira,Pleurotaenium,
Pocillomonas,Podohedra,Polyblepharides,Polychaetophora,Polyedriella,Polyedriopsis,
Polygoniochloris,Polyepidomonas,Polytaenia,Polytoma, Polytomella, Porphyridium,
Posteriochromonas,Prasinochloris,Prasinocladus,Prasinophyta,Prasiola,Prochlorphyta,
Prochlorothrix,Protoderma,Protosiphon,Provasoliella,Prymnesium, Psammodictyon,
Psammothidium,Pseudanabaena,Pseudenoclonium,Psuedocarteria,Pseudochate,
Pseudocharacium,Pseudococcomyxa, Pseudodictyosphaerium,Pseudokephyrion,
                                                173

Pseudoncobyrsa,Pseudoquadrigula,Pseudosphaerocystis,Pseudostaurastrum,
Pseudostaurosira,Pseudotetrastrum,Pteromonas,Punctastruata,Pyramichlamys,
Pyramimonas,Pyrrophyta, Quadrichloris,Quadricoccus, Quadrigula,Radiococcus, Radiofilum,
Raphidiopsis,Raphidocelis, Raphidonema,Raphidophyta, Peimeria,Rhabdoderma,
Rhabdomonas, Rhizoclonium, Rhodomonas, Rhodophyta, Rhoicosphenia,Rhopalodia,Rivularia,
Rosenvingiella, Rossithidium, Roya, Scenedesmus, Scherffelia, Schizochlamydella,
Schizochlamys, Schizomeris, Schizothrix, Schroederia,Scolioneis, Scotiella, Scotiellopsis,
Scourfieldia, Scytonema, Selenastrum, Selenochloris, Sellaphora,Semiorbis, Siderocelis,
Diderocystopsis,Dimonsenia,Siphononema, Sirocladium, Sirogonium, Skeletonema, Sorastrum,
Spermatozopsis, Sphaerellocystis, Sphaerellopsis,Sphaerodinium, Sphaeroplea,Sphaerozosma,
Spiniferomonas, Spirogyra, Spirotaenia,Spirulina, Spondylomorum, Spondylosium, Sporotetras,
Spumella, Staurastrum,Stauerodesmus, Stauroneis, Staurosira,Staurosirella,Stenopterobia,
Stephanocostis, Stephanodiscus, Stephanoporos, Stephanosphaera,Stichococcus, Stichogloea,
Stigeoclonium, Stigonema, Stipitococcus, Stokesiella, Strombomonas, Stylochrysalis,
Stylodinium, Styloyxis, Stylosphaeridium, Surirella,Sykidion, Symploca, Synechococcus,
Synechocystis, Synedra, Synochromonas, Synura, Tabellaria,Tabularia,Teilingia,
Temnogametum, Tetmemorus, Tetrachlorella,Tetracyclus, Tetradesmus, Tetraedriella,
Tetraedron, Tetraselmis, Tetraspora,Tetrastrum, Thalassiosira,Thamniochaete,
Thorakochloris, Thorea, Tolypella, Tolypothrix, Trachelomonas, Trachydiscus, Trebouxia,
Trentepholia, Treubaria,Tribonema, Trichodesmium, Trichodiscus, Trochiscia, Tryblionella,
Ulothrix, Uroglena, Uronema, Urosolenia, Urospora, Uva, Vacuolaria, Vaucheria, Volvox,
Volvulina, Westella, Woloszynskia, Xanthidium, Xanthophyta, Xenococcus, Zygnema,
Zygnemopsis, Zygonium, Chloroflexus, Chloronema, Oscillochloris,Heliothrix,Herpetosiphon,
Roseiflexus, Thermomicrobium, Chlorobium, Clathrochloris,Prosthecochloris,Allochromatium,
Chromatium, Halochromatium,Isochromatium, Marichromatium,Rhodovulum,
Thermochromatium, Thiocapsa, Thiorhodococcus, Thiocystis, Phaeospirillum,Rhodobaca,
Rhodobacter,Rhodomicrobium, Rhodopila,Rhodopseudomonas, Rhodothalassium,
Rhodospirillum,Rodovibrio, Roseospira,Nitrobacteraceaesp., Nitrobactersp., Nitrospina sp.,
Nitrococcus sp., Nitrospirasp., Nitrosomonas sp., Nitrosococcus sp., Nitrosospirasp.,
Nitrosolobus sp., Nitrosovibriosp., Thiovulum sp., Thiobacillus sp., Thiomicrospirasp.,
Thiosphaerasp., Thermothrix sp., Hydrogenobactersp., Siderococcus sp., Aquaspirillum sp.
                                               174

Methanobacteriumsp., Methanobrevibactersp., Methanothermus sp., Methanococcus sp.,
Methanomicrobium sp., Methanospirillumsp., Methanogenium sp., Methanosarcinasp.,
Methanolobus sp., Methanothrix sp., Methanococcoides sp., Methanoplanus sp., Thermoproteus
sp., Pyrodictium sp., Sulfolobus sp., Acidianus sp., Bacillus subtilis, Saccharomyces cerevisiae,
Streptomyces sp., Ralstonia sp., Rhodococcus sp., Corynebacteriasp., Brevibacteriasp.,
Mycobacteriasp., oleaginous yeast, Arabidopsis thaliana,Panicum virgatum, Miscanthus
giganteus,Zea mays (plants), Botryococcus braunii, Chlamydomonas reinhardtiiand Dunaliela
salina (algae), Synechococcus sp PCC 7002, Synechococcus sp. PCC 7942, Synechocystis sp.
PCC 6803, Thermosynechococcus elongatus BP-1 (cyanobacteria), Chlorobium tepidum (green
sulfur bacteria), Chloroflexus auranticusl, Chromatium tepidum and Chromatium vinosum
(purple sulfur bacteria), Rhodospirillum rubrum, Rhodobactercapsulatus, and
Rhodopseudomonaspalusris (purple non-sulfur bacteria).
                                                175

WHAT WE CLAIM IS:
1.       A biocatalyst comprising:
         a solid structure of hydrated hydrophilic polymer defining an interior structure having a
         plurality of interconnected major cavities having a smallest dimension of between about
         5 and 100 microns and an Hydration Expansion Volume (HEV), which is calculated in
         volume percent, of at least about 1000 and
         a population of microorganisms substantially irreversibly retained in the interior
         structure, said population of microorganisms being in a concentration of at least about
         60 grams per liter based upon the volume defined by the exterior of the solid structure
         when fully hydrated,
wherein the microorganisms maintain their population substantially stable.
2.       The biocatalyst of claim 1 in which the HEV is at least about 5000.
3.       The biocatalyst of claim 2 in which the solid structure forms an external skin.
4.       The biocatalyst of claim 3 in which the skin has pores of an average diameter between
about 1 and 10 microns and comprise about I to 30 percent of the surface area of the external
skin.
5.       The biocatalyst of claim 3 in which about 40 to 70 percent of the volume of the
biocatalyst comprises major cavities and the biocatalyst contains smaller cavities.
6.       The biocatalyst of claim 5 in which the major cavities are quiescent.
7.       The biocatalyst of claim 3 in which the HEV is at least about 20,000 and the
concentration of microorganisms in the interior of the solid structure is at least about 100 grams
per liter based upon the volume defined by the exterior of the solid structure.
8.       The biocatalyst of claim 3 which contains an exo-network of said microorganisms.
9.       The biocatalyst of claim 3 in which the microorganism population is a single strain-type.
10.      The biocatalyst of claim 3 in which the microorganism population comprises bacteria or
algae.
11.      The biocatalyst of claim 3 in which the biocatalyst further comprises polysaccharide.
                                                  176

12.      The biocatalyst of claim 11 in which the polysaccharide has a major dimension less than
about 20 microns.
13.      The biocatalyst of claim 3 in which the biocatalyst further comprises a solid sorbent.
14.      The biocatalyst of claim 13 in which the solid sorbent is particulate having a major
dimension less than about 5 microns.
15.      The biocatalyst of claim 13 in which the solid sorbent comprises at least one of carbon,
silica, silicates, clays, and molecular sieves.
16.      The biocatalyst of claim 3 in which the microorganism is a photosynthetic
microorganism.
17.      The biocatalyst of claim 16 in which the biocatalyst further comprises a phosphorescent
material.
18.      The biocatalyst of claim 3 in which the biocatalyst further comprises at least one isolated
enzyme.
19.      The biocatalyst of claim 1 in which the biocatalyst comprises at least two
microorganisms.
20.      The biocatalyst of claim 19 in which the solid structure comprises at least two layers, at
least one of which contains a different microorganism than another layer.
21.      The biocatalyst of claim 3 in which the microorganism population exhibits at least one
phenotypic change.
22.      The biocatalyst of claim 21 in which a phenotypic change exhibited is a metabolic shift.
23.      The biocatalyst of claim 21 in which a phenotypic change exhibited is a repression of
diauxie.
24.      A method for making a biocatalyst of claim 1, the method comprising:
         a.       forming a liquid dispersion of solubilized precursor for hydrophilic polymer and
         microorganisms for said biocatalyst wherein the concentration of microorganisms in the
         liquid dispersion is at least about 60 grams per liter;
         b.       subjecting said dispersion to solidification conditions to form a solid structure of
         the hydrophilic polymer wherein the solid structure has an interior structure having a
                                                    177

        plurality of interconnected major cavities containing said microorganisms, said major
        cavities having a smallest dimension of between about 5 and 100 microns and wherein
        the solid structure has an HEV of at least about 1000; and
        c.      maintaining the solid structure containing microorganisms under conditions that
        do not adversely affect the population of said microorganisms in the interior of the solid
        structure for a time sufficient to enable the microorganisms to undergo a phenotypic
        alteration to maintain their population substantially stable and to become substantially
        irreversibly retained in the interior of the solid structure.
25.     The method of claim 24 wherein the liquid dispersion is an aqueous dispersion, and the
density of the microorganism in said aqueous dispersion is at least about 100 grams per liter.
26.     The method of claim 24 wherein the solidification conditions include the presence of a
cross-linking agent, and the precursor is a solubilized prepolymer.
27.     The method of claim 24 wherein the liquid dispersion not encompassed within the solid
structure formed in step (b) is separated during or prior to step (c).
28.     A metabolic process comprising subjecting the biocatalyst of claim I to metabolic
conditions including the presence of substrate to bioconvert said substrate to bioproduct.
29.     The metabolic process of claim 28 wherein the microorganisms exhibit a metabolic shift.
30.     The metabolic process of claim 28 wherein the metabolic process is an anabolic process.
31.     The metabolic process of claim 30 wherein the bioproduct comprises at least one of an
oxygenated organic compound and hydrocarbon of up to about 100 carbons.
32.     The metabolic process of claim 31 wherein the oxygenated organic product comprises at
least one of methanol, ethanol, acetic acid, n-propanol, i-propanol, propionic acid, n-butanol,
i-butanol, butyric acid, acetone, and methyl ethyl ketone.
33.     The metabolic process of claim 32 wherein the substrate comprises methane.
34.     The metabolic process of claim 30 wherein the bioproduct comprises hydrogen.
35.     The metabolic process of claim 30 wherein the bioproduct comprises ethylene.
36.     The metabolic process of claim 28 wherein the metabolic process is a photosynthetic
process.
                                                   178

37.      The metabolic process of claim 28 wherein the metabolic process is a catabolic process.
38.      The metabolic process of claim 37 wherein the catabolic process comprises a reduction
process.
39.      The metabolic process of claim 37 wherein the substrate comprises at least one of
nitrates, perchlorates, taste and odor compounds, chlorinated hydrocarbons, 1,4-dioxane, and
oxyanions, hydroxyls or soluble salts of sulfur, phosphorus, selenium, tungsten, molybdenum,
bismuth, strontium, cadmium, chromium, titanium, nickel, iron, zinc, copper, arsenic, vanadium,
uranium, radium, manganese, germanium, indium, antimony mercury, and rare earth metals.
40.      The metabolic process of claim 38 which is an anaerobic digestion.
41.      The metabolic process of claim 37 wherein the catabolic process comprises an oxidation
process.
42.      The metabolic process of claim 41 wherein the substrate comprises at least one of
ammonia and organic compound.
43.      The metabolic process of claim 28 wherein a toxin is present and the biocatalyst exhibits
increased tolerance to the toxin.
44.      The metabolic process of claim 43 wherein the toxin is one or more of a contaminant in a
feedstock containing the substrate, the substrate, a bioproduct, a co-product, a by-product, and a
phage.
45.      A process for reducing the concentration of ultra-low contaminants in a water stream
comprising:
         a.     continuously passing said water stream to a bioreactor, said bioreactor being
         maintained at metabolic conditions including the presence of a biocatalyst of claim 1
         comprising microorganisms for bioconverting said ultra-low contaminants;
         b.     contacting said water stream with said biocatalyst for a time sufficient to reduce
         the concentration of said ultra-low contaminants; and
         c.     withdrawing from said bioreactor a treated water stream having a reduced
         concentration of said ultra-low contaminants.
                                                 179

46.      The process of claim 45 wherein the ultra-low contaminants comprise one or more of
2-methylisoboreal, geosmin, trihalomethanes and halo-acetic acid.
47.      A process for catabolizing dissolved organic carbon and ammonium cation in a
wastewater stream comprising:
          a.      continuously passing said wastewater stream to a bioreactor containing
         biocatalyst of claim 1 comprising microorganisms for catabolizing dissolved organic
          carbon to carbon dioxide and ammonium cation to nitrate anion;
         b.       contacting in said bioreactor said wastewater stream with said biocatalyst in the
         presence of oxygen for a time sufficient to provide an oxidized effluent containing less
         than about 5 milligrams of ammonium cation and having a biochemical oxygen demand
          (BOD) of less than about 10 milligrams per liter,
 wherein substantially no solids pass from the biocatalyst to the oxidized effluent.
 48.     The process of claim 47, wherein said microorganism is an ammonia-oxidizing
 microorganism.
 49.     The process of claim 47 or 48 wherein the process further comprises denitrifying the
 oxidized effluent to provide a denitrified effluent containing less than about 10 milligrams of
 nitrate anion per liter.
 50.     The process of claim 49 wherein the denitrifying comprises:
          a.      continuously passing the oxidized effluent to a bioreactor containing biocatalyst
          of claim 1 comprising microorganisms for denitrifying nitrate anion; and
         b.       contacting in said bioreactor said oxidized effluent with said biocatalyst for a time
          sufficient to provide a denitrified effluent containing less than about 5 milligrams of
         nitrate per liter,
 wherein substantially no solids pass from the biocatalyst to the oxidized effluent.
 51.     The process of claim 50 wherein solids contained in the wastewater are hydrolyzed.
 52.      The process of claim 50 wherein the wastewater is municipal wastewater.
                                                    180

53.      A process for the biological reduction of soluble phosphate in water comprising:
         a.       contacting said water in a bioreactor with a biocatalyst of claim 1 comprising
         phosphate accumulating microorganisms under phosphate accumulating conditions for a
         time sufficient to reduce the concentration of phosphate in said water and provide a
         biocatalyst comprising phosphate laden microorganism wherein said phosphate
         accumulating conditions comprise the presence of polyhydroxyalkanoate within said
         microorganisms and the presence of aerobic or anoxic conditions in the water:
         b.       subjecting said biocatalyst comprising phosphate laden microorganism to
         anaerobic conditions in an aqueous medium sufficient to release phosphate from said
         microorganisms into said aqueous medium to provide a phosphate-rich aqueous medium;
         and
         c.       separating said biocatalyst from the phosphate-rich aqueous medium for use and
         step (a).
54.      A process for biodegrading ammonium to nitrogen in a feed water containing ammonium
and oxygen using an N/D microorganism comprising contacting under metabolic conditions the
water with a biocatalyst of claim I having said microorganism irreversibly retained therein for a
time sufficient to provide a treated water having a concentration of ammonium less than about
50 percent of that in wherein the nitrate concentration of the feed water and a concentration of
nitrate ion less than about 1 milligram per liter.
55.      The process of claim 54 wherein the biocatalyst contains microorganisms obtained from
activate sludge.
56.      A process for the bioconversion of a plurality of substrates using a biocatalyst comprising
substantially a single strain of microorganism under metabolic conditions for a time sufficient to
bioconvert said substrates to bioproduct, the improvement comprising using a biocatalyst of
claim 1 containing therein said microorganism.
57.      A process for reducing the concentration of nitrate anion or perchlorate anion or both
when present in water comprising contacting the water with a biocatalyst of claim 1 having
therein a strain of microorganism for reducing said anions under metabolic conditions and for a
time sufficient to bioconvert such anion.
                                                   181

58.     A process for treating water containing at least one soluble compound of metal or
semi-metal comprising:
        a.      continuously introducing said water into a reaction zone containing a biocatalyst
        of claim I comprising microorganism for reducing said soluble compound;
        b.      contacting the water with said biocatalyst for a time sufficient to reduce the
        concentration of said at least one soluble compound in the water;
        c.      maintaining said biocatalyst under metabolic conditions sufficient to
        metabolically reduce the oxidation state of the metal or semi-metal to form elemental
        metal or semi-metal or precipitated compound thereof; and
        d.      withdrawing water having a reduced concentration of said at least one soluble
        compound from the bioreaction zone.
59.     The process of claim 58 wherein at least a portion of the metal or semi-metal to form
elemental metal or semi-metal or precipitated compound thereof remains in the biocatalyst.
60.     The process of claim 58 wherein at least a portion of the metal or semi-metal to form
elemental metal or semi-metal or precipitated compound thereof is removable from the
biocatalyst.
61.     A process to reduce the concentration of 1,4-dioxane in a water stream comprising:
        a.      continuously passing said water stream to a bioreactor, said bioreactor being
        maintained at metabolic conditions including aerobic conditions and the presence of a
        biocatalyst of claim 1 comprising microorganisms for degrading 1,4-dioxane
        metabolically;
        b.      contacting said water stream with said biocatalyst for a time sufficient to reduce
        the concentration of said 1,4-dioxane in the water stream; and
        c.      withdrawing from said bioreactor a treated water stream having a reduced
        concentration of 1,4-dioxane.
62.     The process of claim 61 wherein the microorganism comprises Rhodococcus and the
treated water stream has a concentration of 1,4-dioxane of less than about 10 micrograms per
liter.
                                                 182

63.      A process for the bioconversion of sugar and optionally carbon dioxide to succinic acid
comprising:
         a.      contacting an aqueous medium with a biocatalyst of claim 1 comprising succinic
         acid-producing microorganism under metabolic conditions including temperature and the
         presence of sugar and other nutrients for the microorganism for a time sufficient to
         produce succinate anion and provide a succinate anion-containing aqueous medium;
         b.      removing at least a portion of said succinate anion-containing aqueous medium
         and said biocatalyst;
         c.      reusing in step (a) said biocatalyst from which at least a portion of said succinate
         anion-containing aqueous medium has been removed; and
         d.      recovering succinate anion from said succinate anion-containing aqueous
         medium.
64.      The process of claim 63 wherein the contacting of the aqueous medium with the
biocatalyst occurs in at least 2 reaction zones having different metabolic conditions.
65.      The process of claim 64 wherein aqueous medium from a first reaction zone containing
the biocatalyst is passed to a subsequent reaction zone for further contact with biocatalyst and the
sugar concentration in the aqueous medium is depleted in the subsequent reaction zone.
66.      The process of claim 64 wherein a first aqueous medium contacting the biocatalyst in a
the first reaction zone, which may be under conditions sufficient to generate
phosphoenolpyruvate in the microorganisms under conditions not favoring conversion of the
phosphoenolpyruvate to succinate anion which conditions comprise micro-aerobic or aerobic
conditions, and thereafter subjecting said biocatalyst to anaerobic conditions, including the
presence of carbon dioxide, sufficient to bioconvert phosphoenolpyruvate to succinate anion.
67.      The process of claim 66 wherein the anaerobic conditions are gas phase conditions.
68.      A process for the bioconversion of carbon dioxide to bioproducts comprising:
         a.      maintaining the biocatalyst of claim I comprising a species of Botryococcus in an
         aqueous medium, said aqueous medium being at metabolic conditions including
         temperature and the presence of nutrients for the microalgae;
                                                   183

        b.      contacting the aqueous medium with carbon dioxide for the bioconversion
        wherein the microalgae secretes bioproduct;
        c.      irradiating the aqueous medium with light at a frequency and intensity sufficient
        for the microalgae to photosynthesize carbon dioxide to bioproduct; and
        d.      removing bioproduct from the aqueous medium.
69.     The process of claim 68 wherein the bioproducts comprise branched or cyclic
hydrocarbons, optionally substituted with oxygen containing moieties.
70.     A process for bioconverting substrate contained in a gas phase to bioproduct comprising:
        a.      continuously contacting the gas phase with a biocatalyst of claim 1, said
        contacting being at a temperature suitable for the metabolic bioconversion and for a time
        sufficient to effect said bioconversion of at least a portion of the substrate to bioproduct,;
        b.      cycling at least a portion of the biocatalyst of step (a) to at least one immersion
        step in an aqueous medium for a time sufficient to substantially fully hydrate the
        biocatalyst;
        c.      separating the biocatalyst and aqueous medium of the at least one immersion step;
        and
        d.      using at least a portion of the separated biocatalyst for step (a).
71.     A process of claim 70, wherein step (a) comprises contacting for a time sufficient to
provide a steady state mass transfer to and bioconversion of substrate.
72.     A process of claim 70 or 71, wherein in step (b) the aqueous medium for at least one of
said immersion step comprises nutrients for the microorganisms, and said immersion is for a
time sufficient to provide nutrients in said biocatalyst.
73.     The process of claim 70 wherein the substrate comprises at least one of hydrogen, carbon
monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonium, hydrogen sulfide, sulfur oxides, carbon
disulfide, phosphine, carbonyls, halocarbons, volatile organosulfur compounds, volatile organic
compounds, and volatile metal compounds.
74.     The process of claim 70 wherein at least a portion of the biocatalyst contacting the gas
phase have an exterior surface substantially free of an aqueous layer.
75.     The process of claim 70 wherein the gas phase during step (a) is the continuous phase.
                                                   184

76.     The process of claim 70 wherein the biocatalyst during step (a) is in a fluidized bed.
77.     The process of claim 70 wherein the biocatalyst during step (a) is in a rising bed.
78.     The process of claim 70 wherein the biocatalyst during step (a) is in a moving bed.
79.     A process for reducing fouling by aquatic macroorganisms comprising contacting water
that comes into contact with the aquatic macroorganisms with a biocatalyst of claim 1
comprising microorganisms that are capable of catabolic conversion of dissolved, metabolizable
organic carbon in the water for a time sufficient to provide a treated water having a concentration
of metabolizable organic carbon at a level where survival of macroorganisms is inhibited.
80.     The process of claim 79 wherein the macroorganism comprises at least one of barnacles;
marine mussels; freshwater mussels; zebra mussels; bryozoans; tube worms; polychaetes,
seasquirts, sponges; and sea anemones.
81.     A process for desalinating water comprising (a) withdrawing a saline water from a water
source, said saline water comprising suspended mollusks to provide a withdrawn water stream,
and (b) subjecting the withdrawn water stream to desalination conditions to provide a desalinated
water stream and a salt-containing reject stream, the improvement comprising contacting the
withdrawn water stream with a biocatalyst of claim 1 comprising microorganisms capable of
catabolic conversion of organic carbon in the water for a time sufficient to reduce the
concentration of organic carbon to a level where survival of the mollusks is inhibited.
82.     An apparatus for the desalination of saline water comprising:
        a.      at least one raw water inlet conduit adapted to direct saline water into the
        apparatus;
        b.      at least one bioreactor in flow communication with at least one raw water inlet
        conduit and adapted to receive said saline water, said bioreactor comprising biocatalyst of
        claim 1 containing microorganisms capable of catabolic conversion of organic carbon in
        the water;
        c.      at least one desalination unit; and
        d.      at least one effluent conduit adapted to direct water from the bioreactor to the
        desalination unit.
                                                  185

83.     A process for bioconverting a substrate contained in an aqueous medium to bioproduct
under bioconversion conditions including the presence of microorganisms for said
bioconversion, wherein an antimicrobial agent is provided to the aqueous medium in an amount
sufficient to control contaminating microorganisms, the improvement comprising attenuating the
effect of the antimicrobial agent on said microorganisms for said bioconversion by using a
biocatalyst of claim I comprising said microorganisms for said bioconversion.
84.     A bio-detection device comprising a biocatalyst of claim 1.
85.     An anti-fouling coating comprising a biocatalyst of claim 1.
86.     A biological fuel cell comprising a biocatalyst of claim 1.
87.     A filter comprising a biocatalyst of claim 1.
88.     A process for treating wastewater containing organic compound comprising:
        a.       contacting under thermophilic conditions said wastewater with a biocatalyst of
        claim 1 comprising thermophilic microorganisms suitable for the bioconversion of
        organic compounds to methane for a time sufficient to reduce the concentration of
        organic compound to provide a treated water and a biogas,
        b.       separating the biogas from the wastewater and
        c.       separating the treated water from the biocatalyst.
89.     The process of claim 88 wherein the microorganism comprises methanogen.
90.     The process of claim 88 or 89 wherein the concentration of microorganisms in the water
being treated is at least about 100 grams per liter.
91.     A continuous process for the bioconversion of substrate to bioproduct using a
microorganism capable of such bioconversion wherein the bioproduct is toxic to the
microorganism comprising:
        a.       continuously supplying substrate and aqueous medium to at least one first
        bioreactor containing aqueous medium, said at least one first bioreactor having therein a
        biocatalyst of claim 1 comprising said microorganism;
        b.      maintaining said at least one first bioreactor under metabolic conditions and
        continuously withdrawing a first reactor effluent from said at least one first bioreactor at
        a rate sufficient to maintain steady-state conditions and provide a hydraulic residence
                                                  186

        time sufficient to bioconvert a portion of the substrate, said a first bioreactor effluent
        containing unconsumed substrate and bioproduct, wherein the bioconversion activity to
        said bioproduct in said at least one first bioreactor is at a first rate;
        c.      continuously supplying the withdrawn first bioreactor effluent to at least one
        subsequent bioreactor containing aqueous medium, said at least one subsequent
        bioreactor having therein a biocatalyst of claim 1 comprising said microorganism;
        d.      maintaining said at least one subsequent bioreactor under metabolic conditions
        and continuously withdrawing a subsequent bioreactor effluent from said at least one
        subsequent bioreactor at a rate sufficient to maintain steady-state conditions and provide
        a hydraulic residence time sufficient to bioconvert at least a portion of the substrate, said
        a subsequent bioreactor effluent containing bioproduct, wherein the bioconversion
        activity to said bioproduct in said at least one subsequent bioreactor is at a second rate
        which is lower than the first rate;
        e.      continuously separating a bioproduct-rich stream from said withdrawn subsequent
        bioreactor effluent for product recovery and provide a residual aqueous stream; and
        f.      continuously recycling at least a portion of the residual aqueous stream to at least
        one subsequent bioreactor.
92.     The process of claim 91 wherein the bioproduct is capable of forming a separate liquid
phase in the aqueous medium and at least in the at least one subsequent bioreactor, the
concentration of the bioproduct forms a separate liquid phase and the subsequent bioreactor
effluent is subjected to phase separation to provide a bioproduct-containing phase and the
residual aqueous phase.
93.     A process for bioconverting substrate to butanol comprising:
        a.      contacting an aqueous medium with a biocatalyst of claim 1, said biocatalyst
        comprising microorganisms capable of bioconverting said substrate to butanol, wherein
        said aqueous medium is maintained under metabolic conditions including the presence of
        nutrients for said microorganisms and contains said substrate;
        b.      maintaining the contact between the aqueous medium and biocatalyst for a time
        sufficient to bioconvert at least a portion of said substrate to butanol; and
        c.      recovering butanol from said aqueous medium.
                                                   187

94.   The process of claim 93 wherein the butanol forms a separate liquid phase in the aqueous
medium.
95.   The process of claim 94 wherein the butanol is isobutanol or n-butanol.
                                             188

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
