1002177787
                           ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
       Adhesive formulations and methods for making adhesive formulations are provided.
An adhesive formulation includes at least one oxazoline polymer and casein. Methods of
making adhesive formulations include combining at least one oxazoline polymer and casein
to form the adhesive formulation. Glue sticks made using these adhesive formulations and
methods are also provided.

1002177787
                   OXAZOLINE-BASED ADHESIVE FORMULATIONS
                  CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[1]      This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 62/262,612, filed
on December 3, 2015, which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
                               FIELD OF THE DISCLOSURE
[2]      The present disclosure relates in general to products and formulations containing
adhesives, and more specifically to oxazoline-based adhesive formulations.
                                        BACKGROUND
[3]      Glue sticks are commonly used in the stationery field to glue paper and other craft
materials to one another or to other materials, and such products are typically used by both
adults and children. Commercially available glue stick formulations typically utilize either a
polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP) or a modified-poly(vinyl acetate) (PVA) polymer, although
PVP-based formulations typically provide better performance compared with modified-PVA
formulas, including ease of lubricity, package stability, and better adhesion.
[4]      Although modified PVA-based products can be formulated to deliver faster adhesion
development, they often lack many of the aforementioned properties of PVP-based formulas.
Material and formulation properties such as non-toxicity, ease of application from a suitable
dispenser, and water based clean-up are important to the end-user of such glue formulations.
While commercially available glue sticks typically possess these properties, such products
have not found strong utility in and/or acceptance for Do-It-Yourself (DIY) applications,
such as home improvement and repair, craft, and construction projects, due to the increased
adhesion properties desired in these applications. Thus, there is a need for glue formulations
that provide the benefits of both PVA-based and PVP-based formulas and that provide,
among other properties, high adhesion, non-toxicity, ease of application from a suitable
dispenser, and water based clean-up.
                                           SUMMARY
[5]      In one aspect, adhesive formulations are provided. The adhesive formulations include
at least one oxazoline polymer and casein. Further ingredients and combinations of
ingredients may be included to achieve the desired properties of the adhesive formulations.
                                                  1

1002177787
[6]     In another aspect, methods of making adhesive formulations are provided. The
methods include combining at least one oxazoline polymer and casein to form an adhesive
formulation. Further ingredients and combinations of ingredients may be combined to
achieve the desired properties of the adhesive formulations.
[7]     In yet another aspect, glue sticks and other glue products including the adhesive
formulations described herein are also provided.
                                 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[8]     The present disclosure relates to adhesive (i.e., glue) formulations that provide,
among other properties, high adhesion, non-toxicity, ease of application from a suitable
dispenser, and water based clean-up. Such adhesive formulations may be particularly
suitable for use in the form of a glue stick or other glue product. In particular, glue sticks
formed from the adhesive formulations described herein may exhibit increased adhesive
strength as compared to other commercially available glue formulations.
[9]     In one aspect, adhesive formulations are provided that contain at least one oxazoline
polymer and casein. The oxazoline polymer may be any water soluble polyoxazoline, such as
poly(2-ethyl-2-oxazoline). For example, the oxazoline polymer may be poly(2-ethyl-2
oxazoline), commercially available as AQUAZOL 50 and AQUAZOL 200, manufactured by
Polymer Chemistry Innovations, Inc., Tuscon, Arizona. In some embodiments, the at least
one oxazoline polymer is present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about 5
percent to about 50 percent, by weight of the formulation. For example, the at least one
oxazoline polymer may be present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about 15
percent to about 35 percent, by weight of the formulation. In certain embodiments, the
oxazoline polymer is present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about 26
percent to about 31 percent, by weight of the formulation, such as from about 28 to about 31
percent, by weight of the formulation. As used herein, the term "about" means plus or minus
5 percent of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used.
[10]    In certain embodiments, at least two oxazoline polymers are combined in the adhesive
formulation. For example, two polyoxazolines, such as two poly(2-ethyl-2-oxazoline)
polymers having different molecular weights and/or viscosities may be combined. For
example, a polyoxazoline having a weight average molecular weight of about 50,000 (e.g.,
AQUAZOL 50) and a polyoxazoline having a weight average molecular weight of about
200,000 (e.g., AQUAZOL 200) may be combined. In certain embodiments, the adhesive
formulation contains from about 8 percent to about 15 percent, by weight of the adhesive
                                                 2

1002177787
formulation, of a polyoxazoline having a molecular weight of about 50,000 (e.g., AQUAZOL
50) and from about 10 percent to about 20 percent, by weight of the adhesive formulation, of
a polyoxazoline having a molecular weight of about 200,000 (e.g., AQUAZOL 200). In
some embodiments, the adhesive formulation contains a greater amount , by weight, of the
polyoxazoline having a molecular weight of about 200,000 (e.g., AQUAZOL 200), as
compared to the polyoxazoline having a molecular weight of about 50,000 (e.g., AQUAZOL
50).
[11]    The adhesive formulations described herein further contain casein. In certain
embodiments, the casein is present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about 1
percent to about 20 percent, by weight of the formulation. For example, the casein may be
present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about 4 percent to about 10 percent,
by weight of the formulation, such as from about 5 percent to about 9 percent, by weight of
the formulation, or from about 6 percent to about 9 percent, by weight of the formulation.
In certain embodiments, the casein is combined with the oxazoline polymer in the form of a
solution that contains casein in an amount from about 10 percent to about 40 percent, by
weight of the solution. For example, the casein solution may further contain an organic
amine and deionized water. For example, the organic amine may be 2-amino-2-methyl-1
propanol, commercially available as AMP-95 from ANGUS Chemical Company, Buffalo
Grove, IL . In some embodiments, the casein is present in an amount of about 25 percent, by
weight of the solution. In some embodiments, the organic amine is present in an amount of
about 5 percent to about 15 percent, by weight of the solution, such as about 10 percent to
about 11 percent, by weight of the solution. Without intending to be bound by a particular
theory, it is believed that the organic amine is effective to stabilize the casein solution without
the use of an inorganic base.
[12]    The adhesive formulations described herein may further contain water (e.g., deionized
water) and other ingredients, to achieve the desired formulation consistency and properties, as
will be described in greater detail. In certain embodiments, the formulation contains
deionized water in an amount from about 15 percent to about 35 percent, by weight of the
formulation.
[13]    In certain embodiments, the adhesive formulation further contains a polyurethane.
For example, the polyurethane may be combined with the oxazoline polymer in the form of a
dispersion, such as waterborne polyurethane dispersions commercially available as
SANCURE 2710 (aliphatic waterbome urethane polymer), SANCURE 12929 (aliphatic
waterborne urethane polymer), and SANCURE 20025F (Soft elastic aliphatic polyester
                                                 3

1002177787
urethane polymer dispersion containing 5-10% benzyl benzoate), manufactured by Lubrizol,
Brecksville, Ohio. Combinations of such polyurethane dispersions may also be used to
achieved the desired properties. In certain embodiments, the total amount of polyurethane
dispersion combined with the oxazoline polymer is in the range of about 5 percent to about
15 percent, by weight of the adhesive formulation, such as from about 8 percent to about 12
percent, by weight of the adhesive formulation.
[14]    Further additives, and combinations thereof, may optionally be combined with the
oxazoline polymer and casein, with or without the polyurethane, to obtain a desired adhesive
formulation. For example, adhesive formulations may include at least one additive selected
from humectants, defoamers, caustic solutions, fatty acids, adhesion promoters, and slip
agents.
[15]    For example, a humectant may be glycerin or another suitable hygroscopic substance.
For example, glycerin may be present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about
1 percent to about 10 percent, by weight of the adhesive formulation, such as from about 2 to
about 6 percent, by weight of the adhesive formulation.
[16]    For example, a defoamer may be a mineral oil-free silicone defoamer or another
suitable anti-foaming agent effective to reduce the formation of foam in the formulation. For
example, a suitable defoamer may be BYK 045, which is mineral oil-free silicone defoamer
containing an emulsion of foam destroying polysilxoanes, hydrophobic solids and
emulsifying agents that is commercially available from Altana Group, Germany. For
example, a mineral oil-free silicone defoamer may be present in the adhesive formulation in
an amount of from about 0.01 percent to about percent, by weight of the adhesive
formulation, such as from about 0.1 percent to about 0.5 percent, by weight of the adhesive
formulation.
[17]    For example, a caustic solution may be a sodium hydroxide or other suitable chemical
solution, such as a 10% sodium hydroxide solution. For example, a 10% sodium hydroxide
solution may be present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about 0.5 percent
to about 5 percent, by weight of the adhesive formulation, such as from about 1 percent to
about 3 percent, by weight of the adhesive formulation.
[18]    For example, a fatty acid may be a sodium stearate or another suitable fatty acid. For
example, sodium stearate may be present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from
about 1 percent to about 10 percent, by weight of the adhesive formulation, such as from
about 4 percent to about 6 percent, by weight of the adhesive formulation.
                                               4

1002177787
[19]    For example, an adhesion promoter may include a gamma
aminopropyltrimethoxysilane, gamma-glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane, a combination
thereof, or other suitable amino silanes. For example, suitable amino silanes are
commercially available as SILQUEST A-1 110 and SILQUEST A-187, from Momentive
Performance Materials, Wilton, Connecticut. For example, an amino silane may be present
in the adhesive formulation in an amount from about 0.01 percent to about 1 percent, by
weight of the adhesive formulation, such as from about 0.05 percent to about 0.5 percent, by
weight of the adhesive formulation.
[20]    For example, a slip agent may be polyethylene glycol (PEG), an alkali-swellable
polyacrylate, a combination thereof, or another suitable substance effective to increase the
lubricity of the formulation. For example, a suitable PEG material is CARBOWAX 3350,
commercially available from Dow Chemical Company, Midland, Michigan. For example, a
suitable polyacrylate is PARAGUM 500, commercially available from Royal Adhesives
(formerly Parachem), South Bend, Indiana. For example, a PEG or a polyacrylate may be
present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about 0.1 percent to about 5
percent, by weight of the adhesive formulation, such as from about 0.5 percent to about 2
percent, by weight of the adhesive formulation.
[21]     Various combinations of the foregoing additives and components are envisioned and
intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure.
[22]    In certain embodiments, the adhesive formulations described herein are substantially
free of PVP or PVA based polymers. As used herein, the terms "substantially free" refers to
the formulation containing not more than residual or negligible amounts of PVP or PVA
based polymers, such as less than 1 percent, by weight of the formulation.
[23]    In certain embodiments, the adhesive formulations disclosed herein display a lap
shear strength of greater than 400 psi for a maple/maple substrates and a maple/anodized
aluminum substrates, when tested using a one inch by three inch substrate specimens (having
3/16" thickness) of the specified materials with a one square inch overlapped section having
the adhesive formulation applied thereto. In some embodiments, the adhesive formulations
disclosed herein display a lap shear strength of greater than 600 psi for a maple/maple
substrates and a maple/anodized aluminum substrates according to such tests.
[24]    In another aspect, methods of making adhesive formulations are provided. Generally,
these methods may be used to make any of the adhesive formulations described herein. The
method may include combining at least one oxazoline polymer and casein to form an
adhesive formulation.
                                                 5

1002177787
[25]    In some embodiments, the at least one oxazoline polymer is combined with the other
components in an amount such that oxazoline polymer is present in the adhesive formulation
in an amount of from about 5 percent to about 50 percent, by weight of the formulation. In
some embodiments, the at least one oxazoline polymer is combined with the other
components in an amount such that oxazoline polymer is present in the adhesive formulation
in an amount of from about 15 percent to about 35 percent, by weight of the formulation.
[26]    In certain embodiments, as described above, at least two oxazoline polymers may be
combined in the adhesive formulation. For example, a polyoxazoline having a molecular
weight of about 50,000 (e.g., AQUAZOL 50) and a polyoxazoline having a molecular weight
of about 200,000 (e.g., AQUAZOL 200) may be blended with water and stored at a high
temperature, and then mixed to be substantially homogenous. For example, at least two
oxazoline polymers may be mixed with deionized water, stored at a temperature between 70
and 90 'C for a period of at least 4 hours, and then mixed to form a substantially homogenous
mixture, prior to combination with the casein. For example, the mixture may be stored for a
period of about 6 to about 8 hours.
[27]    The oxazoline polymer (or the blend of multiple oxazoline polymers) may then
optionally be combined with additives such as the humectants and defoamers described
above, in the amounts described above, and the mixture may be mixed gently. For example,
a humectant that includes glycerin and a defoamer that includes a mineral oil-free silicone
defoamer may be combined with the at least one oxazoline polymer, prior to combination
with the casein.
[28]    A polyurethane dispersion may then also optionally be combined with the oxazoline
polymer(s), in the forms and amounts described above, and the mixture may be continuously
mixed.
[29]    Separately, a casein solution may be prepared by combining casein with water, and,
optionally, an organic amine, and then mixing to form a homogenous solution, having the
compositions described above. The casein solution may be combined with the oxazoline
polymer mixture.
[30]    Next, further optional additives may be combined with the mixture, such as fatty acids
and slip agents, in the forms and amounts described above. For example, a fatty acid that
includes sodium stearate and a slip agent that includes polyethylene glycol, an alkali
swellable polyacrylate, or a combination thereof, may be combined with the at least one
oxazoline polymer and the casein.
                                                6

1002177787
[31]      The mixture may then be heat to a temperature of about 60 'C to about 90 'C, such as
from about 75 'C to about 80 'C, and mixed at a until substantially homogenous, such as
from a period of about 15 to about 30 minutes. For example, the mixture may be mixed with
a motorized mixer, such as at a low motor speed.
[32]      An adhesion promoter, such as a silane coupling agent, as described above, may
optionally be combined with the mixture and mixed for a short period, such as about 5
minutes. A caustic solution, such as a sodium hydroxide solution, may optionally be
combined with the mixture and mixed for a short period, such as about 10 to 15 minutes. For
example, the mixing temperature may be elevated during these steps, such as to a temperature
of about 60 'C to about 90 'C, such as 75 'C to about 90 'C.
[33]      The mixture may optionally be mixed for an additional period (e.g., 10 to 15 minutes)
under vacuum.
[34]      In certain embodiments, the method includes combining one or more of a humectant
and a defoamer with the at least one oxazoline polymer, prior to combination with the casein,
and combining a fatty acid, an adhesion promoter, and a caustic solution, with the at least one
oxazoline polymer and the casein, to form the adhesive formulation.
[35]      In another aspect, glue sticks and other glue products including the adhesive
formulations described herein are also provided. In certain embodiments, a glue stick is
provided that contains any of the adhesive formulations described herein. For example, the
methods may include loading the adhesive formulation into a glue stick dispenser to form the
glue stick. For example, suitable glue stick dispensers may be those known to persons of
ordinary skill in the art. Other suitable glue products containing the adhesive formulations
described herein are also envisioned.
[36]      Examples
[37]      The present disclosure is further illustrated by the following examples, which are not
to be construed in any way as imparting limitations upon the scope thereof. On the contrary,
it is to be clearly understood that resort may be had to various other embodiments,
modifications, and equivalents thereof which, after reading the description therein, may
suggest themselves to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the
appended claims.
[38]      Example 1
[39]      A first exemplary formulation was prepared including oxazoline polymers and casein
for providing the desired adhesion properties. The formulation composition is shown in
Table 1 below.
                                                   7

1002177787
               Ingredient                   Description              % (by wt)
               Aquazol 50                   oxazoline polymer        12.80
               Aquazol 200                  oxazoline polymer        17.90
                Glycerin                    humectant                5.00
               Byk 045                      defoamer                 0.20
               Deionized water              ------                   20.50
               25% casein solution          Casein solution          35.00
                                (casein)                                     (8.75)
                              (AMP 95)               (organic amine)         (3.70)
                       (deionized water)                                    (22.55)
                Sodium stearate             fatty acid               5.50
               Momentive A-i 100            adhesion promoter        0.10
                10% sodium hydroxide        caustic solution         2.00
                solution
                Carbowax 3350               slip agent for lubricity 1.00
                                                                     100.00
                Table 1: Example 1 Adhesive Formulation
[40]    This formulation was manufactured by the following exemplary process: (i) blend
Aquazol 50 and Aquazol 200 together, add deionized water and then store the resulting
premix at a high temperature (e.g., 80'C) for 6-8 hours, then mix gently until the mixture is
substantially homogeneous; (ii) add glycerin and defoamer and mix gently; (iii) separately,
prepare the casein solution by combining the organic amine and water together and adding
the casein, then mix the solution until it is a homogeneous solution; (iv) add the casein
solution to the batch and mix the solution; (v) add the sodium stearate and Carbowax
powders together and add to the batch; (vi) maintain the heat at 75-80'C and mix at a low
spread for about 15-30 minutes or until it is homogeneous; (vii) add the silane coupling agent
(Momentive A- 1100) while mixing at a low speed and mix for about 5 minutes; (viii) add the
10% caustic solution and mix 10-15 minutes at a low speed, maintaining the mixing
temperature at 85 0 C; and (ix) mix an additional 10-15 minutes under vacuum.
[41]    This process yielded a formulation suitable for use in a glue stick and displaying the
desired high adhesion, non-toxicity, ease of application from a suitable dispenser, and water
based clean-up properties.
                                                   8

1002177787
[42]    Example 2
[43]    A second exemplary formulation was prepared including polyurethane dispersions
(PUD) in the formulation for further enhancing adhesion to various surfaces. The
formulation composition is shown in Table 2 below.
               Ingredient                   Description              % (by wt)
               Aquazol 50                   oxazoline polymer        10.76
               Aquazol 200                  oxazoline polymer        17.97
               Sancure 2710                 polyurethane             3.60
                                            dispersion
               Sancure 12929                polyurethane             3.60
                                            dispersion
               Sancure 20025F               polyurethane             3.60
                                            dispersion
               Glycerin                     humectant                2.97
               Byk 045                      defoamer                 0.20
               Deionized water              ------                   26.45
               25% casein solution          caustic solution         25.00
                                (casein)                                     (6.25)
                             (AMP 95)                (organic amine)         (2.64)
                      (deionized water)                                     (16.11)
               Sodium stearate              fatty acid               4.65
               Momentive A-187              adhesion promoter        0.10
               10% sodium hydroxide         caustic solution         1.10
               solution
                                                                     100.00
               Table 2: Example 2 Adhesive Formulation
[44]    This formulation was manufactured by the following exemplary process: (i) blend
Aquazol 50 and Aquazol 200 together, add deionized water and then store the resulting
premix at a high temperature (e.g., 80 C) for 6-8 hours, then mix gently until the mixture is
substantially homogeneous; (ii) add glycerin and defoamer and mix gently; (iii) separately,
prepare the casein solution by combining the organic amine and water together and adding
the casein, then mix the solution until it is a homogeneous solution; (iv) add the polyurethane
                                                   9

1002177787
dispersions to the batch and continue mixing; (v) add the casein solution to the batch and mix
the solution; (vi) add the sodium stearate to the batch; (vii) maintain the heat at about 75
80'C and mix at a low spread for about 15-30 minutes or until it is homogeneous; (viii) add
the silane coupling agent (Momentive A- 1100) while mixing at a low speed and mix for 5
minutes; (ix) add the 10% caustic solution and mix 10-15 minutes at a low speed, maintaining
the mixing temperature at 85'C; and (x) mix an additional 10-15 minutes under vacuum.
[45]    This process yielded a formulation suitable for use in a glue stick and displaying the
desired high adhesion, non-toxicity, ease of application from a suitable dispenser, and water
based clean-up properties.
[46]    Example 3
[47]    A third exemplary formulation was prepared including a lubricant in the formulation
for further enhancing the ease of application for the product. The formulation composition is
shown in Table 3 below.
               Ingredient                  Description               % (by wt)
               Aquazol 50                  oxazoline polymer         12.50
               Aquazol 200                 oxazoline polymer         17.50
                Glycerin                   humectant                 5.00
               Byk 045                     defoamer                  0.20
               Deionized water             ------                    21.20
               25% casein soln.            caustic solution          35.00
                                (casein)                                     (8.75)
                              (AMP 95)              (organic amine)          (3.70)
                       (deionized water)                                    (22.55)
                Sodium stearate            fatty acid                5.50
               Momentive A-i 100           adhesion promoter         0.10
                10% sodium hydroxide       caustic solution          2.00
                solution
               Paragum 500                 slip agent for lubricity  1.00
                                                                     100.00
                Table 3: Example 3 Adhesive Formulation
                                                  10

1002177787
[48]    This formulation was manufactured by the following exemplary process: (i) blend the
Aquazol 50 and Aquazol 200 together, add deionized water and then store the resulting
premix at a high temperature (e.g., 80 C) for 6-8 hours and mix gently until the mixture is
found to be homogeneous; (ii) add glycerin and the defoamer and mix gently; (iii) separately,
prepare the casein solution by combining the organic amine and water together and adding
the casein and mix the solution until it is a homogeneous solution; (iv) add the casein solution
to the batch and mix the solution; (v) add the sodium stearate and Paragum 500 together and
add to the batch; (vi) maintain the heat at 75-80' C and mix at a low spread for 15-30 minutes
or until it is homogeneous; (vii) add the silane coupling agent (Momentive A-i 100) while
mixing at a low speed and mix for 5 minutes; (viii) add the 10% caustic solution and mix 10
15 minutes at a low speed, maintaining the mixing temperature at 85' C; (ix) mix an
additional 10-15 minutes under vacuum.
[49]    This process yielded a formulation suitable for use in a glue stick and displaying the
desired high adhesion, non-toxicity, ease of application from a suitable dispenser, and water
based clean-up properties.
[50]    Example 4: Comparative Strength Testing of Adhesive Formulations
[51]    The lap shear strength of a glue stick having the formulation of Example 1 was tested
and compared to the lap shear strength of commercially available PVP based glue sticks,
using various substrate material combinations. Specifically, one inch by three inch substrate
specimens (having 3/16" thickness) of the specified materials (maple/maple, maple/plastic,
maple/anodized aluminum) were prepared and used to glue a one square inch overlapped
section. After a set dry time, the adhered specimen was placed in a Universal Testing
Machine and pulled apart to obtain a tensile strength in psi. The results of the lap shear
strength tests for a representative sample of currently available Elmer's All-Purpose and
Elmer's Extra-Strength glue sticks (both PVP based) compared to an oxazoline-based glue
stick made using the adhesive formulation of Example 1 are show below in Table 4.
                                                11

1002177787
                                  maple/maple      maple/plastic    maple/anodized
                                                                    aluminum
                Elmer's All-      250 psi           106 psi*        220 psi
                Purpose Glue
                Stick
                Elmer's           385 psi           108 psi *       389 psi
                Extra
                Strength Glue
                Stick
                Formulation       641 psi           124 psi*        641 psi
                of Example 1
                                                   *plastic
                                                   substrate broke
                                                   when tested
                Table 4: Example 4 Lap Shear Strength Test Results
[52]    As can be seen from the results, the oxazoline based glue stick formulation provided
significantly better adhesive strength for the sample materials, especially the wood to wood
and wood to metal samples. Current commercially available glue stick products
predominantly use PVP in their formulations have good properties regarding paper and
simple substrate adhesion. However, as can be seen from the results, more difficult
substrates, such as wood, plastic, and metal substrates like those common in DIY
applications, pose a challenge.
[53]    Thus, the presently described adhesive formulations display enhanced adhesion,
especially to non-wood or non-paper substrates, compared with current PVP and PVA based
technologies, while still maintaining good package stability and ease of lubricity, while also
allowing for water based clean-up due to the waterborne nature of the formulations.
Moreover, the present formulations overcome known limitations associated with storing
casein based products. Specifically, casein products commonly must be stored at cooler
temperatures to maintain shelf life, because these formulations are compromised over time at
warmer temperatures. The presently described glue formulations, which combine casein in
an oxazoline based formulation, provide a strong, versatile glue stick without compromising
the package stability of the formulation.
[54]    While the disclosure has been described with reference to a number of example
embodiments, it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the invention is not limited
to such embodiments. Rather, the invention can be modified to incorporate any number of
variations, alterations, substitutions, or equivalent arrangements not described herein, but
which are commensurate with the spirit and scope of the invention. Additionally, while
                                                 12

1002177787
various example embodiments of the invention have been described, it is to be understood
that aspects of the invention may include only some of the described embodiments.
Accordingly, the invention is not to be seen as limited by the foregoing description, but is
only limited by the scope of the appended claims.
                                               13

1002177787
                                           CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
1.      An adhesive formulation, comprising:
        at least one oxazoline polymer; and
        casein.
2.      The adhesive formulation of claim 1, further comprising a polyurethane.
3.      The adhesive formulation of claim 2, wherein the polyurethane is in the form of a
dispersion.
4.      The adhesive formulation of claim 3, wherein the polyurethane dispersion comprises
an aliphatic urethane polymer dispersion.
5.      The adhesive formulation of claim 1, wherein the at least one oxazoline polymer
comprises poly(2-ethyl-2-oxazoline).
6.      The adhesive formulation of claim 1, wherein the at least one oxazoline polymer is
present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about 5 percent to about 50 percent,
by weight of the formulation.
7.      The adhesive formulation of claim 1, wherein the at least one oxazoline polymer is
present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about 15 percent to about 35
percent, by weight of the formulation.
8.      The adhesive formulation of claim 1, wherein the casein is present in the adhesive
formulation in an amount of from about 1 percent to about 20 percent, by weight of the
formulation.
9.      The adhesive formulation of claim 1, wherein the casein is present in the adhesive
formulation in an amount of from about 4 percent to about 10 percent, by weight of the
formulation.
                                              14

1002177787
10.     The adhesive formulation of claim 1, further comprising at least one additive selected
from the group consisting of: humectants, defoamers, caustic solutions, fatty acids, adhesion
promoters, and slip agents.
11.     The adhesive formulation of claim 1, further comprising a humectant that comprises
glycerin.
12.     The adhesive formulation of claim 1, further comprising a defoamer that comprises a
mineral oil-free silicone defoamer.
13.     The adhesive formulation of claim 1, further comprising a caustic solution comprising
a 10% sodium hydroxide solution.
14.     The adhesive formulation of claim 1, further comprising a fatty acid that comprises
sodium stearate.
15.     The adhesive formulation of claim 1, further comprising an adhesion promoter that
comprises gamma-aminopropyltrimethoxy silane, gamma-glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane,
or a combination thereof.
16.     The adhesive formulation of claim 1, further comprising a slip agent that comprises
polyethylene glycol, an alkali-swellable polyacrylate, or a combination thereof.
17.     A glue stick comprising the adhesive formulation of any one of claims 1 to 16.
18.     A method of making an adhesive formulation, comprising:
        combining at least one oxazoline polymer and casein to form an adhesive formulation.
19.     The method of claim 18, wherein the at least one oxazoline polymer comprises
poly(2-ethyl-2-oxazoline).
                                              15

1002177787
20.     The method of claim 18, wherein the at least one oxazoline polymer is combined in an
amount such that the at least one oxazoline polymer is present in the adhesive formulation in
an amount of from about 5 percent to about 50 percent, by weight of the formulation.
21.     The method of claim 18, wherein the at least one oxazoline polymer is combined in an
amount such that the at least one oxazoline polymer is present in the adhesive formulation in
an amount of from about 15 percent to about 35 percent, by weight of the formulation.
22.     The method of claim 18, wherein at least two oxazoline polymers are mixed with
deionized water, stored at a temperature between 70 and 90 'C for a period of at least 4 hours,
and then mixed to form a substantially homogenous mixture, prior to combination with the
casein.
23.     The method of claim 18, further comprising combining one or more of a humectant
and a defoamer with the at least one oxazoline polymer, prior to combination with the casein.
24.     The method of claim 18, further comprising combining a humectant that comprises
glycerin and a defoamer that comprises a mineral oil-free silicone defoamer with the at least
one oxazoline polymer, prior to combination with the casein.
25.     The method of claim 18, further comprising combining a polyurethane dispersion
with the at least one oxazoline polymer, prior to combination with the casein.
26.     The method of claim 25, wherein the polyurethane dispersion comprises an aliphatic
urethane polymer dispersion.
27.     The method of claim 18, wherein the casein is in the form of a casein solution
comprising casein in an amount from about 10 percent to about 40 percent, by weight of the
solution.
28.     The method of claim 27, wherein the casein solution further comprises an organic
amine and deionized water.
                                               16

1002177787
29.     The method of claim 28, wherein the organic amine comprises 2-amino-2-methyl-1
propanol.
30.     The method of claim 18, wherein the casein is combined in an amount such that
casein is present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about 1 percent to about
20 percent, by weight of the formulation.
31.     The method of claim 18, wherein the casein is combined in an amount such that
casein is present in the adhesive formulation in an amount of from about 4 percent to about
10 percent, by weight of the formulation.
32.     The method of claim 18, further comprising combining one or more of a fatty acid
and a slip agent with the at least one oxazoline polymer and the casein, to form the adhesive
formulation.
33.     The method of claim 18, further comprising combining a fatty acid that comprises
sodium stearate and a slip agent that comprises polyethylene glycol, an alkali-swellable
polyacrylate, or a combination thereof, with the at least one oxazoline polymer and the
casein, to form the adhesive formulation.
34.     The method of claim 18, further comprising combining an adhesion promoter that
comprises gamma-aminopropyltrimethoxy silane, gamma-glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane,
or a combination thereof, with the at least one oxazoline polymer and the casein, to form the
adhesive formulation.
35.     The method of claim 18, further comprising combining a caustic solution comprising
a 10% sodium hydroxide solution with the at least one oxazoline polymer and the casein, to
form the adhesive formulation.
36.     The method of claim 18, further comprising:
        combining one or more of a humectant and a defoamer with the at least one oxazoline
polymer, prior to combination with the casein; and
        combining a fatty acid that comprises sodium stearate, an adhesion promoter that
comprises gamma-aminopropyltrimethoxy silane, gamma-glycidoxypropyltrimethoxysilane,
                                                17

1002177787
or a combination thereof, and a caustic solution comprising a 10% sodium hydroxide solution
 with the at least one oxazoline polymer and the casein, to form the adhesive formulation,
        wherein the casein is in the form of a casein solution comprising an organic amine,
water, and casein in an amount from about 10 percent to about 40 percent, by weight of the
solution .
37.     The method of claim 36, further comprising combining a polyurethane dispersion
with the at least one oxazoline polymer, prior to combination with the casein.
38.     The method of any one of claims 19 to 37, further comprising loading the adhesive
formulation into a glue stick dispenser.
                                                18

