Abstract
The present invention provides a vent valve (11) particularly suited for venting gases
from a pipeline. The vent valve comprises a body (23) movable in a housing (13),
between a first position and a second position. The body is adapted to close an
outlet (21) when the body is in the second position. The housing is in fluid
communication with a pipeline, having an inlet (19) towards its lower end, and the
outlet in the upper portion. The outlet is offset from a longitudinal axis of the body.
The valve also comprises a valve assembly (27) supported in the upper portion of
the housing. The valve assembly is movable between a closed position, in which it
is in sealing engagement with the outlet, and an open position, in which it is out of
sealing engagement with the outlet. The valve assembly is responsive to the level of
liquid in the housing.
                                            23

    21
6v-

VENT VALVE
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] This invention relates to vent valves which are utilised in pipelines for
releasing air and other gases from the pipeline. This prevents the formation of air
pockets within the pipeline which would otherwise restrict the flow of fluid through the
pipeline, affecting the efficiency of the pipeline and pumping system.
BACKGROUND ART
[0002]         Air release valves are well known in various industries. One type of
valve is secured to a pipeline to vent any gas which accumulates under-pressure
during normal operating conditions. This type of valve comprises a float member
which is located in a housing. The housing has a venting aperture at its upper end,
while a lower end is adapted to be mounted to a pipeline.
[0003]         During normal operation of the valve, fluid enters the housing which
buoys the float member upwardly to seal the outlet aperture. As gas migrates into
the housing from the pipeline, fluid is displaced from the housing. When sufficient
gas has migrated into the housing the float member is caused to move downwardly
thereby opening the outlet aperture and allowing the gas to vent from the housing.
When sufficient gas has vented, the float member returns to a position which blocks
the outlet aperture. This cycle continues based on the rate of gas migration from the
pipeline into the housing.
[0004]         In this type of valve the float is typically associated with a bearing
member, which moves as a result of movement of the float. The bearing member
acts upon a valve member to open and close the aperture. As a result it is critical
that the valve member aligns correctly with the aperture and engages with the
aperture with sufficient force to ensure sealing of the valve. Currently, to ensure the
                                               1

valve member correctly aligns with the aperture the valve needs to be tested, and if
the aperture does not properly seal, the valve needs to be disassembled, adjusted
and reassembled before being tested again. This is a tedious task and usually takes
a skilled operator three or more adjustments before the valve is correctly set. The
multiple assembling and disassembling of the valve to make the adjustment also
wears the components of the vent valve, potentially reducing the life of the valve.
[0005]         Another problem associated with current vent valves is that they are
constantly venting and closing in rapid succession, or they remain open and vent
constantly, suggesting that the gas is not able to completely vent. This is caused by
the vent valve having a relatively small vent aperture, typically 1.5mm. In these
valves the float acts directly to close and open the vent aperture. If the aperture was
bigger atmospheric pressure would adversely affect the operation of the valve.
[0006]         Also, in those valves having a float exposed to atmosphere, high
pressure and/or high velocity in the pipeline creates a pressure differential across the
float which will keep the float in an uppermost position, keeping the aperture closed
and preventing the discharge of gas through the valve.
[0007]         Vent valves are used in pipelines across a number of industries,
including the coal seam gas industry. In these applications it is essential that the
valves are able to withstand fire should one occur in the vicinity of the pipeline.
Currently vent valves are made from a combination of metal and polymer based
materials which can melt, rendering the valve in effective, and may also allow the
pipeline to leak.
[0008]         The preceding discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate
an understanding of the present invention only. The discussion is not an
acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred to is or was part of
the common general knowledge as at the priority date of the application.
                                             2

DISCLOSURE OF THE INVENTION
[0009]            It is an object of the present invention to overcome at least some of the
problems referred to above or at least reduce the likelihood of at least one of the
difficulties referred to above arising.
[00010]           Accordingly, the invention further resides in a vent valve comprising:
               a housing for housing a body movable between a first position and a
           second position, the body being adapted to close an outlet when the body is
           in the second position, the housing adapted to be in fluid communication with
           a pipeline, the housing having an inlet towards its lower end, and the outlet
           in an upper portion, the outlet being offset from a longitudinal axis of the
           body;
               a valve assembly supported in the upper portion of the housing to be
           movable between a closed position, in which it is in sealing engagement with
           the outlet, and an open position, in which it is out of sealing engagement with
           the outlet, the valve assembly being responsive to the level of liquid in the
           housing.
[00011]           The present invention further resides in a vent valve comprising:
             a housing, housing a body movable between a first position and a second
         position, the body being adapted to affect the close of an outlet in an upper
         end of the housing when the body is in the second position, the housing
         adapted to be in fluid communication with a pipeline, the housing having an
         inlet towards its lower end, and the outlet being offset from a longitudinal axis
         of the body;
             a valve assembly supported by the upper end of the housing, including a
         securing means, and an arm to be movable between a closed position, in
        which the valve assembly is in sealing engagement with the outlet, and an
                                                 3

        open position, in which the valve assembly is out of sealing engagement with
        the outlet, the valve assembly being responsive to the level of liquid in the
        housing; and
        wherein the securing means is attached to the upper end and includes an arm
        receiving recess secured to the arm, the profile of the arm receiving recess
        being such that the arm is restricted to move in only one plane relative to the
        outlet.
[00012]         Preferably the valve assembly comprises an arm wherein the arm is
secured such that it is substantially restricted to move in only one plane relative to
the outlet.
[00013]         In contrast to the prior art the configuration of the valve assembly
provides more accurate seating of the arm in the closed position, negating the need
to undergo multiple tests and re-adjustments to ensure the vent valve operates in the
desired manner. In addition the valve assembly improves the sealing of the outlet.
Also as the float does not act directly upon the outlet it is not exposed to
atmosphere, ensuring the operation of the vent valve is independent of atmospheric
conditions.
[00014]         Preferably when the body is in the first position the outlet is closed and
fluid and gas is able to migrate into the housing. Preferably when the body is in the
first position the body is in its upper most position, as may be constrained by the
configuration of the vent valve.
[00015]         Preferably the body is in the form of a float.
[00016]         The float may cause the movement of the valve assembly between the
closed and open positions as a result of the change in fluid level in the housing.
                                               4

[00017]        The housing may be in the form of a cylinder having an upper cap and
a lower cap
[00018]        The valve assembly may further comprise a post. The post may be
secured to the planar surface of the upper cap. The post may have two screws
which fasten the post to the upper cap. The post may be secured to the upper cap
at a position adjacent the outlet which is located therein.
[00019]        The post may have two extending supports between which the arm is
pivotally retained. The arm may be retained at a first end thereof. A pin may pass
through the first support, through the first end of the arm and through the second
support. With this arrangement the arm is restricted to move in a plane substantially
orthogonal to the upper cap.
[00020]        The arm may incorporate a sealing means to seal the outlet when in
the closed position. The sealing means may be located adjacent the first end. The
sealing means may be in the form of a resilient material vulcanised or otherwise
attached to the arm.
[00021]        A portion at the second end of the arm may be adapted to engage the
float. The portion may be adapted to support a bobbin wherein the bobbin engages
the float as the float moves upwardly.
[00022]        The portion of the arm at the second end may incorporate a slot in
which the bobbin is variably supported.
[00023]         Preferably the outlet allows for large venting capacity. Preferably the
diameter of the outlet is greater than 5mm. Preferably the diameter of the outlet is in
the range of 7mm to 9mm.
                                              5

[00024]        Preferably the levering configuration of the valve assembly provides
the arm with a 6:1 mechanical advantage. This results in an increased force per unit
area of the sealing means on the outlet, thereby reducing the chance of leaks during
periods of low pressure transients. Valves that use direct acting floats (i.e. floats that
engage the outlet to close the outlet) tend to leak at low pressure when associated
with a large outlet as there is less force per unit area applied by the float on the
outlet.
[00025]        Preferably the float is isolated from atmosphere. Preferably the fluid in
the housing, and/or the gas which accumulates in the upper part of the housing
surrounds the float such that the only pressure exerted upon the float is that of the
gas and/or fluid. In the vent valve of the present invention, the float is isolated from
the atmosphere by the valve assembly. In operation, the float is exposed to the
pressure exerted by the fluid in the housing as well as any gas - both of which are at
high pressure. As the gas increases in volume due to more gas entering the vent
valve from the pipeline, the level of liquid drops, causing the float to move
downwardly. When the float has dropped sufficiently the valve assembly also moves
causing the outlet to be open. As the gas in the housing is at a higher pressure than
atmosphere, the gas will automatically vent from the valve until such time as the
volume of gas in the housing decreases, allowing the level of liquid to rise, the float
to rise and eventually the outlet to be blocked by the valve assembly, preventing
further venting, preventing the entry of gas from the atmosphere. In operation, as
the pressure in the vent valve is always higher than atmosphere, movement of
fluid/gas through the outlet is restricted to movement from the housing to
atmosphere. Atmospheric pressure has no effect on the operation of the vent valve.
As the float is isolated from atmospheric pressure there is no premature closing of
the vent valve as a result of pipeline pressure or large outflow velocity. Where the
float is subjected to atmospheric pressure, a pressure differential occurs across the
float leading to the float closing the outlet when operating at high pressure, thus
preventing venting.
                                              6

[00026]         The end cap may have a recess therein for receiving an upper end of
the bobbin. This allows the arm to move sufficiently upward to adequately seal the
outlet when in the closed position. The recess may be self-centring to increase the
stability of the valve assembly when received the bobbin is received therein.
[00027]         Preferably the valve assembly moves to its closed position upon the
liquid level in the housing exceeding a predetermined level.
[00028]         Preferably the vent valve is configured to be a one way valve, whereby
gas may only vent through the outlet. The vent valve may be configured to be a
single outlet, one way valve having a large autoventing capacity. If air was able to
flow back into the valve there is the possibility of creating explosive conditions within
the pipeline. The float may be adapted to engage a seal on the lower cap of the
housing to prevent fluid or gas entering the housing from the inlet.
[00029]         The vent valve may be fire resistant. The vent valve may be made of
metal, such as stainless steel.
[00030]         The float member and the valve housing may be separate.
[00031]         The vent valve may be configured such that the fluid level in the
housing does not approach the outlet. This prevents the possibility of any fluid being
discharged through the outlet. This negates the need to have an exhaust riser
located above the outlet.
[00032]         The present invention further resides in a pipeline vent valve
comprising a housing, the housing adapted to be connected to a pipeline to be in
fluid communication therewith, the housing having an inlet towards its lower end, and
an outlet in an upper portion, a valve assembly supported in the upper portion of the
housing to be movable between a closed position at which it is in sealing
engagement with the outlet and an open position in which it is out of sealing
                                              7

engagement with the outlet, the valve assembly being responsive to the level of
liquid in the housing, the vent valve being made from fire resistant material.
[00033]         The present invention further resides in a pipeline vent valve
comprising a housing, the housing adapted to be connected to a pipeline to be in
fluid communication therewith, the housing having an inlet towards its lower end, and
an outlet in an upper portion, a valve assembly supported in the upper portion of the
housing to be movable between a closed position at which it is in sealing
engagement with the outlet and an open position in which it is out of sealing
engagement with the outlet, the valve assembly being responsive to the level of
liquid in the housing, wherein the valve assembly is secured to a planar surface of an
upper cap of the housing so as to enable accurate assembly of the vent valve
whereby the valve assembly is able to accurately seal the outlet and improve the
operation of the vent valve.
[00034]         Preferably the vent valve is rated to 1600 kPa.
[00035]         Accordingly, the invention resides in a vent valve comprising:
             a housing adapted to be in fluid communication with a pipeline, the
          housing having an inlet towards its lower end, and an outlet in an upper
          portion, the outlet being offset from a longitudinal axis of the housing;
             a valve assembly supported in the upper portion of the housing to be
          movable between a closed position, in which it is in sealing engagement with
          the outlet, and an open position, in which it is out of sealing engagement with
          the outlet, the valve assembly being responsive to the level of liquid in the
          housing.
                                               8

[00036]          Preferably the valve assembly comprises a body movable between a
first position and a second position, the body being adapted to close the outlet when
the body is in the second position.
[00037]          Preferably the valve assembly comprises an arm wherein the arm is
secured such that it is substantially restricted to move in only one plane relative to
the outlet.
[00038]         The present invention further resides in a vent valve comprising:
            a housing, housing a body movable between a first position and a second
        position, the body being adapted to affect the close of an outlet when the body
        is in the second position, the housing adapted to be in fluid communication
        with a pipeline, the housing having an upper end and a lower end, an inlet
        towards its lower end, passing through the lower end, and the outlet in an
        upper portion, passing through the upper end, the outlet being offset from a
        longitudinal axis of the body;
            a valve assembly engaged to the upper end of the housing with an
        engaging means to be movable between a closed position, in which it is in
        sealing engagement with the outlet, and an open position, in which it is out of
        sealing engagement with the outlet, the valve assembly being responsive to
        the level of liquid in the housing;
           wherein the valve assembly includes a bobbin adapted to engage the body;
        and
           wherein the upper end includes a recess adapted to receive at least a
        portion of the bobbin to affect the closing of the outlet .
[00039]         The present invention further resides in a vent valve comprising:
            a housing, housing a body movable between a first position and a second
        position, the body being adapted to affect the close of an outlet in an upper
                                              9

      end of the housing when the body is in the second position, the housing
      adapted to be in fluid communication with a pipeline, the housing having an
      inlet towards its lower end, and the outlet being offset from a longitudinal axis
      of the body;
          a valve assembly supported by the upper end of the housing, to be
      movable between a closed position, in which the valve assembly is in sealing
      engagement with the outlet, and an open position, in which the valve
      assembly is out of sealing engagement with the outlet, the valve assembly
      being responsive to the level of liquid in the housing; and
        wherein the closed position is affected when the body is in the second
      position; and wherein the body only acts on the valve assembly when moving
      from the first to the second position, movement of the valve assembly from the
      second to the first position being affected by gravity.
[00040] The invention further resides in a vent valve comprising:
      a housing comprising a cylinder having an upper cap at one end, and a lower
      cap at an other end, the upper cap has an outlet offset from a longitudinal axis
      of the valve, the lower cap having an inlet;
      a body slidingly received in the housing, the body being responsive to the
       level of liquid in the housing;
      a valve assembly secured to the underside of the upper cap, the valve
      assembly comprises an arm which is movable between a first position
      wherein the valve is in an open position, and a second position wherein the
       body causes the arm to seal the outlet such that the valve is in a closed
       position,
      wherein the arm has a first end which is constrained to be pivotally secured to
      the upper end of the housing at a point adjacent the outlet to rotate about that
                                           10

        point, the arm is pivotally secured such that the arm is restricted to move in
        only one plane relative to the outlet.
[00041] The invention will be more fully understood in light of the following
description of several specific embodiments.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00042]         Further features of the present invention are more fully described in the
following description of a non-limiting embodiment thereof. This description is
included solely for the purposes of exemplifying the present invention. It should not
be understood as a restriction on the broad summary, disclosure or description of the
invention as set out above. The description will be made with reference to the
accompanying drawings in which:
        Figure 1 is a cross sectional side view of a vent valve in an open condition
        according to an embodiment of the present invention;
        Figure 2 is a bottom view of an end cap of the vent valve of figure 1 showing
        the valve assembly;
        Figure 3 is a side view of figure 2, additionally showing a portion of a float;
        Figure 4 is a plan view of a post of the valve assembly shown in figure 2;
        Figure 5 is a plan view of an arm of the valve assembly shown in figure 2; and
        Figure 6 is a side view of figure 5.
[00043]         In the drawings like structures are referred to by like numerals
throughout the several views. The drawings shown are not necessarily to scale, with
emphasis instead generally being placed upon illustrating the principles of the
present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF SPECIFIC EMBODIMENTS
                                              11

[00044]         In particular the invention relates to a vent valve designed to
automatically vent air/gas that accumulates within the valve's housing over time
when the pipeline is running and pressurised. The valve is typically located at high
points along a pipeline where gas accumulates, and is often referred to as a high
point vent valve.
[00045]        The embodiment is directed to a vent valve 11 which can be utilised in
a pipeline (not shown) to enable air or gases contained within the pipeline to be
autovented from the pipeline in a manner which allows the air/gas to be vented very
quickly.
[00046]        The vent valve 11 according to the embodiment also provides an
arrangement whereby the sealing action of the vent valve is more consistent and
reliable, requiring minimal or no adjustment once assembled.
[00047]        As shown in the figures, the vent valve 11 comprises a housing 13
having an upper cap 15 at an upper end, and a lower cap 17 at a lower end.
[00048]        The lower cap 17 is adapted to be secured to a pipeline so as to be in
fluid communication with the pipeline, such that an inlet 19 allows fluid and gas to
move between the pipeline and the vent valve 11.
[00049]        The upper cap 15 incorporates an outlet in the form of a venting
aperture 21 which is in fluid communication with the atmosphere. The aperture 21
allows for the movement of air between the pipeline and the vent valve 11. As shown
in figure 1, the aperture 21 is located in an off centre position.
[00050]        The upper cap 15 also comprises a central recess 22 for reasons
which are discussed below.
                                              12

[00051]        The housing 11 slidably supports a body in the form of a float 23 by
means of a set of parallel guide rods 25 to facilitate slidable movement such that it is
constrained to move along the longitudinal central axis of the housing 11.
[00052]        The vent valve 11 also comprises a valve assembly 27 which is
secured to the upper cap 15 as best shown in figures 2 and 3. The valve assembly
is movable between a closed position whereby the vent valve 11 is closed and no
gas or fluid may move through the aperture 21, and an open position whereby the
aperture 21 is open.
[00053]        The valve assembly 27 comprises a post 29 and an arm 31.
[00054]        The post 29 is adapted to be secured directly to the planar surface of
the upper cap 15, at a position adjacent the aperture 21. As shown in figure 2 the
post is secured to the upper cap 15 by screws 37 which pass through the post and
into the upper cap. Other means of securing the post to the upper cap as would be
obvious to a person skilled in the art may be used in place of screws without going
outside the scope of this invention.
[00055]        The post 29 comprises two projections 33 between which a first end 35
of the arm is received. As shown in figure 2 the arm 33 is pivotally secured to the
post 29 by a pin 39 which passes through one of the projections 33, through the arm
and through the remaining projection. With this arrangement the arm is restricted in
movement relative to the upper cap 15 to a plane which is substantially orthogonal
thereto. The arm is also adapted to fit between the projections in a manner which
substantially reduces movement of the arm in any other direction.
[00056]        The arm 31 incorporates a sealing means 41 adjacent the first end 35.
A portion adjacent a second end 43 of the arm 31 incorporates a slot 45 as shown in
figure 5. The slot is adapted to receive a bobbin 47 so as to be adjustably positioned
along the slot 45.
                                           13

[00057]         Once connected to a pipeline the vent valve 11 will automatically vent
gases there from once the vent valve opens. In operation, fluid enters the housing
13 through inlet 19. The increasing fluid level causes the float 23 to rise. As the
level of the fluid in the housing 13 rises, the float 23 is caused to engage the bobbin
47 forcing it upward. As the float and bobbin continue to move upwardly the arm 31
is caused to pivot towards the closed position in which the sealing means 41 covers
and blocks the aperture 21. The top portion of the bobbin 47 is received in the
recess 22, assisting in sealing the aperture 21.
[00058]         When the vent valve is open, the rising level of the liquid causes any
gas in the upper region of the housing to be expelled through the aperture 21. Once
the aperture is closed no more gas is able to exit the housing 23 though the aperture
21.
[00059]         As more gas migrates into the housing 13, the increase in gas causes
the level of the liquid to lower. Eventually the liquid has dropped below a
predetermined level, allowing the float 23 to move downwardly. This removes the
force acting upon the arm 31, allowing the valve assembly to move to the open
condition. The arm 31 pivots downwardly, disengaging the sealing means 41 from
the aperture 21, allowing gas in the housing 13 to be vented through aperture 21.
[00060]         As the aperture is offset from the longitudinal axis of the float, the float
is not exposed to atmospheric conditions and can therefore provide an autoventing
function independent of atmosphere. This also allows the size of the aperture to be
relatively larger than with prior art, single aperture valves. As the orifice is larger,
gas may be vented from the valve rapidly, ensuring the gas is vented before the
liquid level increases to close the valve.
[00061]         The robust nature of the valve assembly 27 and the manner in which it
is secured to the upper cap 15 ensures the sealing means 41 reliably seals the
aperture 21. Furthermore, the configuration of the valve assembly enables it to be
accurate secured to the upper cap, increasing the reliability of the vent valve 11. It
                                              14

also improves manufacture of the vent valve as only minimal adjustments are
required in order to ensure proper sealing of the aperture 21.
[00062]        Also, as the valve assembly incorporates a levering action to seal the
aperture, the aperture can be larger without compromising the sealing action. Direct
acting floats are unable to provide sufficient force to adequately seal an aperture,
particularly larger apertures.
[00063]        The vent valve components are made from stainless steel. This
ensures the vent valves 11 remain intact should they be exposed to excessive heat,
as may be expected in a fire.
[00064]        Throughout the specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the
word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be
understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the
exclusion of any other integer or group of integers.
[00065]         It should be appreciated that the scope of the present invention need
not be limited to the particular scope of the embodiments described above.
[00066]         Modifications and variations such as would be apparent to the skilled
addressee are considered to fall within the scope of the present invention. The
present invention is not to be limited in scope by any of the specific embodiments
described herein. These embodiments are intended for the purpose of
exemplification only. Functionally equivalent products, formulations and methods
are clearly within the scope of the invention as described herein.
[00067]         Reference to positional descriptions, such as lower and upper, are to
be taken in context of the embodiments depicted in the figures, and are not to be
taken as limiting the invention to the literal interpretation of the term but rather as
would be understood by the skilled addressee.
                                              15

CLAIMS
1.           A vent valve comprising:
        a housing comprising a cylinder having an upper cap at one end, and a
     lower cap at an other end, the upper cap has an outlet offset from a
     longitudinal axis of the valve, the lower cap having an inlet;
        a body slidingly received in the housing, the body being responsive to the
     level of liquid in the housing;
        a valve assembly secured to the underside of the upper cap, the valve
     assembly comprises an arm which is movable between a first position wherein
     the valve is in an open position, and a second position wherein the body
     causes the arm to seal the outlet such that the valve is in a closed position,
     the arm is restricted to move in only one plane relative to the outlet;
        wherein the arm has a first end which is pivotally secured to the upper end
     of the housing adjacent the outlet, constraining movement of the first end of
     the arm to be pivotal thereabout.
2.  A vent valve comprising:
        a housing for housing a body which is movable between a first position and
     a second position, the body being adapted to affect the close of an outlet in an
     upper portion of the housing when the body is in the second position, the
     housing is adapted to be in fluid communication with a pipeline, the housing
     having an inlet towards its lower end, and the outlet being offset from a
     longitudinal axis of the body;
        a valve assembly supported by an upper end of the housing, the valve
     assembly comprising an arm movable between a closed position, in which the
     valve assembly is in sealing engagement with the outlet, and an open
     position, in which the valve assembly is out of sealing engagement with the
     outlet, the valve assembly being responsive to the level of liquid in the
     housing; and
                                           16

       wherein the valve assembly comprises an arm, the arm has a first end
   which is pivotally constrained to the upper end of the housing directly adjacent
   the outlet , the arm is pivotally constrained such that the arm is restricted to
   move in only one plane relative to the outlet.
3.         The valve according to claim 2, wherein when the body is in the first
   position the outlet is closed and fluid and gas is able to migrate into the
   housing.
4.         The valve according to claim 1, 2 or 3 wherein the body is in the form
   of a floatwherein the float causes the movement of the valve assembly
   between the closed position and open position as a result of the change in
   fluid level in the housing.
5.         The valve according to any one of claims 2 to 4 wherein the housing is
   in the form of a cylinder having an upper cap incorporating the outlet and a
   lower cap.
6.         The valve according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
   valve assembly further comprises a post, the post being secured to a planar
   surface of the upper cap.
7. The valve according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the post is secured to the upper
   cap at a position adjacent the outlet.
8.         The valve according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the post has two
   extending supports between which the arm is pivotally constrained, the arm
   being retained at the first end thereof by a pin, the pin passing through the
   first support, through the first end of the arm and through the second support
   such that the arm is restricted to move in a plane substantially orthogonal to
   the upper cap.
                                         17

9.         The valve according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
    arm incorporates a sealing means to seal the outlet whereby the valve is in
    the closed position.
10.        The valve according to claim 9 wherein the sealing means is located
    adjacent the first end of the arm.
11.        The valve according to claim 9 or 0 wherein the sealing means is in
    the form of a resilient material vulcanised or otherwise attached to the arm.
12.        The valve according to claim 3, or any one of the claims 4 to 11 when
    dependent on claim 3 wherein a portion at the second end of the arm is
    adapted to engage the float.
13.        The valve according to claim 12 wherein the portion is adapted to
    support a bobbin wherein the bobbin engages the float as the float moves
    upwardly.
14.        The valve according to claim 13 wherein the portion of the arm at the
    second end incorporates a slot in which the bobbin is variably supported.
15.        The valve according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
    outlet allows for large venting capacity, the diameter of the outlet being
    greater than 5mm.
16.        The valve according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
    diameter of the outlet is in the range of 7mm to 9mm.
17.        The valve according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
    levering configuration of the valve assembly provides the arm with a 6:1
    mechanical advantage.
                                         18

18.         The valve according to claim 3 or any one of claims 4 to 17 when
    dependent on claim 3 wherein the float is isolated from atmosphere.
19.         The valve according to claim 3 or any one of the claims 4 to 18 wherein
    the fluid in the housing, and/or the gas which accumulates in the upper part of
    the housing surrounds the float such that the only pressure exerted upon the
    float is that of the gas and/or fluid
20.         The valve according to any one of the claims 13 to 19 wherein the
    upper cap has a recess therein for receiving an upper end of the bobbin.
21.         The valve according to claim 20 wherein the recess is self-centering to
    increase the stability of the valve assembly when the bobbin is received
    therein.
22.         The valve according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
    assembly moves to its closed position upon the liquid level in the housing
    exceeding a predetermined level.
23.         The valve according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
    vent valve is configured to be a one way valve, whereby gas only vents
    through the outlet.
24.         The valve according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
    vent valve is fire resistant.
25.         A pipeline vent valve comprising a housing, the housing adapted to be
    connected to a pipeline to be in fluid communication therewith, the housing
    having an inlet towards its lower end, and an outlet in an upper portion, a
    valve assembly in the upper portion of the housing to be movable between a
    closed position at which it is in sealing engagement with the outlet and an
                                          19

    open position in which it is out of sealing engagement with the outlet, the
    valve assembly being responsive to the level of liquid in the housing, the vent
    valve being made from fire resistant material; wherein the valve assembly
    comprises an arm having a first end which is constrained to be pivotally
    secured at a point adjacent the outlet to rotate about that point, the arm is
    pivotally secured such that the arm is restricted to move in only one plane
    relative to the outlet.
26.         A pipeline vent valve comprising a housing, the housing adapted to be
    connected to a pipeline to be in fluid communication therewith, the housing
    having an inlet in its lower portion, and an outlet in an upper portion, a valve
    assembly supported in the upper portion of the housing to be movable
    between a closed position at which it is in sealing engagement with the outlet
    and an open position in which it is out of sealing engagement with the outlet,
    the valve assembly being responsive to the level of liquid in the housing,
    wherein the valve assembly is secured to a planar surface of an upper cap of
    the housing so as to enable accurate assembly of the vent valve whereby the
    valve assembly is able to accurately seal the outlet and improve the operation
    of the vent valve, wherein the valve assembly comprises an arm having a first
    end which is constrained to be pivotally secured at a point adjacent the outlet
    to rotate about that point, the arm is pivotally secured such that the arm is
    restricted to move in only one plane relative to the outlet.
27.         The valve according to any one of the preceding claims wherein the
    vent valve is rated to 1600 kPa.
28.         A vent valve comprising:
     a housing adapted to be in fluid communication with a pipeline, the housing
    having an inlet in its lower portion, and an outlet in an upper portion, the outlet
    being offset from a longitudinal axis of the housing;
     a valve assembly supported in the upper portion of the housing to be
    movable between a closed position, in which it is in sealing engagement with
                                          20

   the outlet, and an open position, in which it is out of sealing engagement with
   the outlet, the valve assembly being responsive to the level of liquid in the
   housing, wherein the valve assembly comprises an arm having a first end
   which is constrained to be pivotally secured at a point adjacent the outlet to
   rotate about that point, the arm is pivotally secured such that the arm is
   restricted to move in only one plane relative to the outlet.
29.The valve according to claim 28 wherein the valve assembly comprises a
   body movable between a first position and a second position, the body being
   adapted to close the outlet when the body is in the second position.
30.A vent valve comprising:
       a housing, housing a body movable between a first position and a second
   position, the body being adapted to affect the close of an outlet when the body
   is in the second position, the housing adapted to be in fluid communication
   with a pipeline, the housing having an upper end and a lower end, an inlet in
   its lower end, and the outlet in the upper end, the outlet being offset from a
   longitudinal axis of the body;
       a valve assembly secured to an underside of the upper end of the housing
   to be movable between a closed position, in which it is in sealing engagement
   with the outlet, and an open position, in which it is out of sealing engagement
   with the outlet, the valve assembly comprises an arm having a first end which
   is constrained to be pivotally secured at a point adjacent the outlet to rotate
   about that point, the arm is pivotally secured such that the arm is restricted to
   move in only one plane relative to the outlet, the valve assembly being
   responsive to the level of liquid in the housing;
       wherein the valve assembly includes a bobbin adapted to engage the body;
   and
       wherein the upper end includes a recess adapted to receive at least a
   portion of the bobbin to affect the closing of the outlet.
                                         21

31.          A vent valve comprising:
       a housing, housing a body movable between a first position and a second
    position, the body being adapted to affect the close of an outlet in an upper
    end of the housing when the body is in the second position, the housing
    adapted to be in fluid communication with a pipeline, the housing having an
    inlet in its lower end, and the outlet being offset from a longitudinal axis of the
    body;
       a valve assembly supported by the upper end of the housing, to be
    movable between a closed position, in which the valve assembly is in sealing
    engagement with the outlet, and an open position, in which the valve
    assembly is out of sealing engagement with the outlet, the valve assembly
    being responsive to the level of liquid in the housing; the valve assembly
    comprises an arm having a first end which is constrained to be pivotally
    secured at a point adjacent the outlet to rotate about that point, the arm is
    pivotally secured such that the arm is restricted to move in only one plane
    relative to the outlet; and
       wherein the closed position is affected when the body is in the second
    position; and wherein the body only acts on the valve assembly when moving
    from the first to the second position, movement of the valve assembly from the
    second to the first position being affected by its own weight under gravity.
                                          22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
