CALCITONIN MIMETICS FOR TREATING DISEASES AND DISORDERS
ABSTRACT
Calcitonin mimetic peptides having an amino acid sequence in accordance with SEQ ID NO: 8
or SEQ ID NO: 53, each of which may be carboxylated at its N-terminal or otherwise modified
to reduce the positive charge of the first amino acid and independently of that may be amidated
at its C-terminal, and in each of which the 1 and 7 position cysteine residues may together be
replaced by a-aminosuberic acid (Asu) are useful as medicaments for treating diabetes (Type I
and/or Type II), excess bodyweight, excessive food consumption, metabolic syndrome,
rheumatoid arthritis, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, osteoporosis, or osteoarthritis, poorly
regulated blood glucose levels, poorly regulated response to glucose tolerance tests, or poorly
regulated of food intake.

                   Calcitonin Mimetics for Treating Diseases and Disorders
        The present application claims priority to United Kingdom (GB) application
1320112.4, filed 14 November 2013 and United Kingdom (GB) application 1414706.0, filed
19 August 2014. The present application is a divisional application of AU 2014350328,
which is the Australian National Phase application of PCT/EP2014/074207. The entire
content of each of these applications is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
        The present invention relates to mimetics of calcitonin, and extends to their use as
medicaments in the treatment of various diseases and disorders, including, but not limited to
diabetes (Type I and Type II), excess bodyweight, excessive food consumption and metabolic
syndrome, the regulation of blood glucose levels, the regulation of response to glucose
tolerance tests, the regulation of food intake, the treatment of osteoporosis and the treatment
of osteoarthritis.
        Worldwide, there are about 250 million diabetics and the number is projected to
double in the next two decades. Over 90% of this population suffers from type 2 diabetes
mellitus (T2DM) . It is estimated that only 50-60% of persons affected with T2DM or in
stages preceding overt T2DM are currently diagnosed.
        T2DM is a heterogeneous disease characterized by abnormalities in carbohydrate and
fat metabolism. The causes of T2DM are multi-factorial and include both genetic and
environmental elements that affect P-cell function and insulin sensitivity in tissues such as
muscle, liver, pancreas and adipose tissue. As a consequence impaired insulin secretion is
observed and paralleled by a progressive decline in p-cell function and chronic insulin
resistance. The inability of the endocrine pancreas to compensate for peripheral insulin
resistance leads to hyperglycaemia and onset of clinical diabetes. Tissue resistance to insulin
mediated glucose uptake is now recognized as a major pathophysiologic determinant of
T2DM.
        A success criterion for an optimal T2DM intervention is the lowering of blood
glucose levels, which can be both chronic lowering of blood glucose levels and increased
                                                  1

   ability to tolerate high glucose levels after food intake,
   described by lower peak glucose     levels and faster clearance.
   Both of these situations exert less strain on       -cell insulin
   output and function.
 5        Type I diabetes is  characterised by a loss of the
   ability to produce insulin in response to food intake and
   hence an inability to regulate blood glucose to a normal
   physiological level.
          The physical structure of bone may be compromised by a
10 variety of factors,    including disease and injury.     One of the
   most common bone diseases is     osteoporosis, which is
   characterized by low bone mass and structural deterioration
   of bone tissue, leading to bone fragility and an increased
   susceptibility to fractures, particularly of the hip, spine
15 and wrist.     Osteoporosis develops when there is    an imbalance
   such that the rate of bone resorption exceeds the rate of
   bone formation.     Administering an effective amount of an
   anti-resorptive agent, such as calcitonin, has      shown to
   prevent resorption of bone.
20        Inflammatory or degenerative diseases,    including
   diseases of the joints, e.g. osteoarthritis      (OA),  rheumatoid
   arthritis    (RA) or juvenile rheumatoid arthritis    (JRA), and
   including inflammation that results from autoimmune response,
   e.g. lupus, ankylosing spondylitis      (AS) or multiple sclerosis
25  (MS),  can lead to substantial loss of mobility due to pain
   and joint destruction.     Cartilage that covers and cushions
   bone within joints may become degraded over time thus
   undesirably permitting direct contact of two bones that can
   limit motion of one bone relative to the other and/or cause
30 damage to one by the other during motion of the joint.
   Subchondral bone just beneath the cartilage may also degrade.
                                   2

   Administering an effective amount of an anti-resorptive
   agent, such as calcitonin, may prevent resorption of bone.
         W02013/067357 discloses   synthetic variants of natural
   calcitonins having modified amino acid sequences which are
 5 intended to provide improved properties.
       Calcitonins are highly conserved over a wide range of
   species.   Full-length native calcitonin is   32 amino acids  in
   length.   The sequences of examples of natural calcitonins are
   set out below   (in each case the sequence has a C-terminal
10 amidation -  not shown):
   Salmon     CSNLSTCVLGKLSQELHKLQTYPRTNTGSGTP SEQ ID NO:1
   Eel        CSNLSTCVLGKLSQELHKLQTYPRTDVGAGTP SEQ ID NO:2
   Chicken    CASLSTCVLGKLSQELHKLQTYPRTDVGAGTP SEQ ID NO:3
   Mouse      CGNLSTCMLGTYTQDLNKFHTFPQTSIGVEAP SEQ ID NO:13
15 Rat        CGNLSTCMLGTYTQDLNKFHTFPQTSIGVGAP SEQ ID NO:14
   Horse      CSNLSTCVLGTYTQDLNKFHTFPQTAIGVGAP SEQ ID NO:15
   Canine-1   CSNLSTCVLGTYSKDLNNFHTFSGIGFGAETP SEQ ID NO:16
   Canine-2   CSNLSTCVLGTYTQDLNKFHTFPQTAIGVGAP SEQ ID NO:17
   Porcine    CSNLSTCVLSAYWRNLNNFHRFSGMGFGPETP SEQ ID NO:18
20 Human      CGNLSTCMLGTYTQDFNKFHTFPQTAIGVGAP SEQ ID NO:19
         A comparison of the amino acid sequences of various
   natural calcitonins and UGP302 from W02013/067357 is    as
   follows:
                                  3

   cn
   0
   CIOU
   t0
    N4
   IfO
    Nl
    N4
   0~
   H
   H
   to
    H      EY        EN       E0      E
   LOC\                                       c
               0     U      U U        U
        LI co        c        u            N
                                           co  f
                                               mo   co
    q.0                                          0 0 0
r-  0j                 0      CO0
             -H         H        H,   P
                 rd ~  (d ~ A    rdL
                                    ~ 0  0

        Peptide UGP302 of W02013/067357 is also referred to
   herein under the name KBP-042.
        There is a continuing need to develop calcitonin
 5 analogues having still further improved properties, or at
   least providing alternative artificial sequences improving on
   the properties of the naturally occurring calcitonins,
   particularly in respect of amylin and calcitonin receptor
   agonism, while eliminating CGRP-Receptor agonism, and thereby
10 ensuring the optimal in vivo efficacy to safety ratio.
                                5

                           (NN
                     N                  -H                         (N              El  El    El      p    p    p     El
                           (nj
                 N                                                  N
                 N,                                                 N          ~      ~ ~    (9   U  (      9  (      9 (
                        (-N
                                         oN-N
                                                  0        d        ---                         --        -
                     N D 4         l
                                 42L                                N       4l   ><l   ><    >< 4l   ><   ><   ><
          >
                 N
                 SN0 -- ---
                ---                              w---
                                                 C)O
                                                                     N
                                                                               - ---            --     --   --   -
                                                         --H
                --                                         H
                           ~            -H       O1)
                                                      X
                   ----                          2
                 N                                         co
                                                          O-N
    o(N                                                            (    CN       <     <  cA cA   G   c     pA C   <
                                                    0    -H                                      o    o    o
                                 - -- -                                                                -     -
          C)                                     e       -H
          CH                                  - H          Q  cdCo                           0  0           0    0   00 0
n-|                                                      n-H
                              -4
        rd    ) 0>                                         C          -cd-
                                                                    --     -        -           -   -     -
                >        -                 -    -H       o0
            0                            >9(1)  L                                  -              -    -
                                                       cm6
       (Uo                                       Ca6

                      -H
CD     o       co
            Cd )       ud
                       C
                       -H
       H      -H1C
       4-      CO      CO
    - -H                I
       (1)    4-)       C
    u    f    -HI
                I
       Cd     4-)
       (C )   4-)      CdA
    0 4-)D            r
               -H      Q
                      4-)-~
0-     -       Cd
           4-)    4)
                       0
    H d        >1      C
    co CO 4
   H           5-
               ad   ~    i) Cd
               0
               0
       4f d-) -       -H
       4I-)    CO
H      0H              (1)c
            u          0o
              4-))     0d

   (    >N >      >           >      >    >    >         >   >     >       >   >   >      >        >    >
2n       p E       l          E        l E l             E     d &          d   & d &                 d E
        Nl        El          El
                              (9     (9
                                     El                  &d  &d    &d      &d  &d  &d     (9
                                                                                          &d       (&d       D  (9     9  (9    9
        N,          ,         C,        , C,      ,          N,,           N,,     N,,              N,,   ,        ,  N,  N,   N
NO
        N,        C             ,    C       , C           , C        ,    C   C      ,   C           , C          ,  C     ,  C
   (    N                                                          ElE                                  zD  NlD       AA
        N
                         (N       ~ ~~~~                                   <<             <         <           CO    CO  CO   CO
     cN )    p c:           c::)     c::) c::) c::)     c::) c::)  c::)   c::) c:)    c:)    c:)   c:)  cA  p      pi  pi   pi   p
      C      N   N          C CO     CO             C    CO      C        CO   CO     CO            CO  CO  N         CO  CO   C
  N l      l   l          l           l    l    l     l       l     l   l       l   l      l     l          l    l
        ND ND     ND                      ND   ND                  ND
                                                                   U     D zD  U     D      D               ND  zD
                   CD (9    (9(9     (9   (9   (9        (9  (9    (9      (9  (9  (9     (9        (9  (9  CD  (9    (9  (98

(N                                                                                     N
                                 (N                                                                    N    N      N
                                                                                      (N
 N                                                                                                              E       EL
                                                                                        -N
        m,    m,   m    m     m     m   m    m   m   m        m   m   m             c
                                                                                           N    _)   _   (_)    (_)     (_)
      n    E-   E-   E-  E-   E-    E-  E-   E-  E-    E-     E-  E-      E-E&E1                         E-      -
        N     o    o    o     o     o   o    o   o   o        o   o   o                        C
(N N                                                      NOOONOM                     >0
                                                                                       N
                                                                                           N
                        Ll                -        )
                                                                                 9N
                                                                                      NN                             CA    CA CAC N N 0 0 CA CA
       f)l
        rI               1     11     1   1    1   1 1         1   1   1
   '-4               D  U     U       D U      D UD  U          D U      D                   D     U          D         U
                            CACA C CACA   AA CA  CA    C      CA    A          9

            N         N     N           N(
(N
(N                  N   NN     N                                    NN
 SN                                                          N                        (N    (N
               (
               (                                             N                              (N
                                                 CjC
                                       (N  N   N     N    N   N     N   N     NN            (N         N
(N                                      N                                                    N
                              (NN
      N     l cp      l    El cN                      l  El  El    El  El   cA    cA     cN      &d  &
                                                                                     44
                                                                                     -HQ
               mm                                             o(                               2  m o
                                       (N  LO              o    o                           (
                       P-     P-     -      H 4       4    4     4 4     4     4
        LO      L                                                                    -P
                                                                                -     (I
                           (L9
                           ol     on       (9  (9    (9   (   (      9    9
   0>    0>       0
                                                        100

(N
(N
(N
     C   C, C   C    C   C
 (N      C
     N      >        >
     NN  N  N   N    N   N
            cY cY cy     cY
    (N  (0  00l 00   00  0
                   (N(N1((N (N (N

        Accordingly the present invention now provides a peptide
   having any one of the amino acid sequences of Table 2a or
   Table 4a each of which may be carboxylated at its N-terminal
   or otherwise modified to reduce the positive charge of the
 5 first amino acid and independently of that may be amidated at
   its C-terminal, and in each of which the  1 and 7 position
   cysteine residues may together be replaced by a-aminosuberic
   acid   (Asu).
        The invention includes a peptide having any one of the
10 amino acid sequences of Table 3.
        The invention also includes a peptide having any one of
   the amino acid sequences of Table 2b or Table 4b each of
   which may be carboxylated at its N-terminal or otherwise
   modified to reduce the positive charge of the first amino
15 acid and independently of that may be amidated at its C
   terminal, and in each of which the 1 and 7 position cysteine
   residues may together be replaced by a-aminosuberic acid
    (Asu).
     Having investigated the acivity of numerous 32 amino acid
20 analogs of natural calcitonins particulalrly looking into
   which amino acids  are needed for the potent activation of the
   receptor-mediated responses, we have found that the amino
   acids numbered:  11,15,18,22,24,30 and 31 are more stringent
   in terms of amino acid type, with preferred values for 11
25 being a K or an R,  15 a D or an E, 18 a K or an R, 22  a Y or
   an F, 24 preferably a K although an R works, 30  an N  and 31
   an A.
        The peptide may be formulated for administration as a
   pharmaceutical and may be formulated for enteral or
30 parenteral administration.   Preferred formulations are
   injectable, preferably for subcutaneous injection, however
   the peptide may be formulated with a carrier for oral
   administration, and optionally wherein the carrier increases
                                 12

   the oral bioavailability of the peptide.    Suitable carriers
   include ones that comprise 5-CNAC, SNAD, or SNAC.
       Optionally, the peptide is   formulated in a pharmaceutical
   composition for oral administration comprising coated citric
 5 acid particles, and wherein the coated citric acid particles
   increases the oral bioavailability of the peptide.
       The invention includes a peptide of the invention for use
   as a medicament.   The peptide may be for use in treating
   diabetes  (Type I and/or Type II),  excess bodyweight,
10 excessive food consumption, metabolic syndrome, rheumatoid
   arthritis, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, osteoporosis,
   or osteoarthritis, poorly regulated blood glucose levels,
   poorly regulated response to glucose tolerance tests,         or
   poorly regulated of food intake.    In particular, the peptides
15 may be used to lower an undesirably high fasting blood
   glucose level or to lower an undesirably high HbAlc or to
   reduce an undesirably high response to a glucose tolerance
   test.
         In some embodiments, the N-terminal side of the
20 calcitonin mimetics discussed supra is modified to reduce the
   positive charge of the first amino acid.    For example, an
   acetyl, propionyl, or succinyl group may be substituted on
   cysteine-1.   In Table 3, "Ac" refers to an acetyl group
   modification.   Each  'Ac' in Table 3 may be replaced by "Pr"
25 referring to a propionyl group modification, or by "Succ"
   referring to a succinyl group modification.    "NH 2 " refers    to
   an amidated C-terminal carboxylic acid group.     Alternative
   ways of reducing positive charge include, but are not limited
   to, polyethylene glycol-based PEGylation, or the addition of
30 another amino acid such as glutamic acid or aspartic acid at
   the N-terminus.   Alternatively, other amino acids may be
   added to the N-terminus of peptides discussed supra
   including, but not limited to,   lysine, glycine,
                                 13

   formylglycine, leucine, alanine, acetyl alanine, and
   dialanyl.   As those of skill in the art will appreciate,
   peptides having a plurality of cysteine residues frequently
   form a disulfide bridge between two such cysteine residues.
 5 All such peptides set forth herein are defined as optionally
   including one or more such disulphide bridges, particularly
   at the Cysl-Cys7  locations.   Mimicking this, the cysteines at
   positions 1 and 7 may jointly be replaced by an a
   aminosuberic acid linkage.   All peptides disclosed herein
10 that have KBP-0## numbers have such a disulphide bridge.
           While calcitonin mimetics of the present disclosure
   may exist in free acid form, it is preferred that the C
   terminal amino acid be amidated.    Applicants expect that   such
   amidation may contribute to the effectiveness and/or
15 bioavailability of the peptide.    A preferred technique for
   manufacturing amidated versions of the calcitonin mimetics of
   the present disclosure is to react precursors     (having glycine
   in place of the C-terminal amino group of the desired
   amidated product) in the presence of peptidylglycine alpha
20 amidating monooxygenase in accordance with known techniques
   wherein the precursors are converted to amidated products in
   reactions described, for example, in US4708934 and EP0308067
   and EP0382403.
        Recombinant production is preferred for both the
25 precursor and the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of the
   precursor to salmon calcitonin.    Such recombinant production
   is discussed in Biotechnology, Vol.   11  (1993) pp.  64-70, by
   Ray MV, Van Duyne P, Bertelsen AH, Jackson-Matthews DE,
   Sturmer AM, Merkler DJ, Consalvo AP, Young SD, Gilligan JP,
30 Shields  PP. which further describes a conversion of a
   precursor to an amidated product.    The recombinant product
   reported there is  identical to natural salmon calcitonin, and
                                 14

   to salmon calcitonin produced using solution and solid phase
   chemical peptide synthesis.
         Production of amidated products may also be accomplished
   using the process and amidating enzyme set forth by Consalvo,
 5 et al in US7445911; Miller et al, US2006/0292672; Ray et al,
   2002,  Protein Expression and Purification, 26:249-259;      and
   Mehta, 2004,   Biopharm. International, July, pp. 44-46.
         The production of the preferred amidated peptides may
   proceed, for example, by producing glycine-extended precursor
10 in E.  coli as a soluble fusion protein with glutathione-S
   transferase, or by direct expression of the precursor in
   accordance with the technique described in US6103495.        Such a
   glycine extended precursor has a molecular structure that is
   identical to the desired amidated product except at the C
15 terminus   (where the product terminates  -- X--NH 2 , while the
   precursor terminates -- X-gly, X being the C-terminal amino
   acid residue of the product).     An alpha-amidating enzyme
   described in the publications above catalyzes conversion of
   precursors to product.    That enzyme is preferably
20 recombinantly produced, for example,    in Chinese Hamster Ovary
    (CHO) cells),  as described in the Biotechnology and Biopharm.
   articles cited above.
         Free acid forms of peptide active agents of the present
   disclosure may be produced in like manner, except without
25 including a C-terminal glycine on the "precursor", which
   precursor is   instead the final peptide product and does not
   require the amidation step.
         Except where otherwise stated, the preferred dosage of
   the calcitonin mimetics of the present disclosure is
30 identical for both therapeutic and prophylactic purposes.
   Desired dosages are discussed in more detail, infra, and
   differ depending on mode of administration.
                                  15

        Except where otherwise noted or where apparent from
   context, dosages herein refer to weight of active compounds
   unaffected by or discounting pharmaceutical excipients,
   diluents, carriers or other ingredients, although such
 5 additional ingredients  are desirably included.   Any dosage
   form  (capsule, tablet, injection or the like) commonly used
   in the pharmaceutical industry for delivery of peptide active
   agents is appropriate for use herein, and the terms
   "excipient", "diluent", or "carrier" includes such non-active
10 ingredients as are typically included, together with active
   ingredients  in such dosage form in the industry.   A preferred
   oral dosage form is discussed in more detail, infra, but is
   not to be considered the exclusive mode of administering the
   active agents of the present disclosure.
15      The calcitonin mimetics of the present disclosure can be
   administered to a patient to treat a number of diseases or
   disorders.   As used herein, the term "patient" means any
   organism belonging to the kingdom Animalia.   In an
   embodiment, the term "patient" refers to vertebrates, more
20 preferably, mammals including humans.
        Accordingly, the present disclosure includes the use of
   the peptides in a method of treatment of type   I diabetes,
   Type II diabetes or metabolic syndrome, obesity, or of
   appetite suppression, or for mitigating insulin resistance,
25 or for reducing an undesirably high fasting serum glucose
   level, or for reducing an undesirably high peak serum glucose
   level, or for reducing an undesirably high peak serum insulin
   level, or for reducing an undesirably large response to a
   glucose tolerance test, or for treating osteoporosis, or for
30 treating osteoarthritis.
        There are a number of art-recognized measures of normal
   range for body weight  in view of a number of factors  such as
   gender, age and height.   A patient in need of treatment or
                                 16

   prevention regimens set forth herein include patients whose
   body weight exceeds recognized norms or who,  due to heredity,
   environmental factors or other recognized risk factor, are at
   higher risk than the general population of becoming
 5 overweight or obese.   In accordance with the present
   disclosure, it is  contemplated that the calcitonin mimetics
   may be used to treat diabetes where weight control is   an
   aspect of the treatment.
        In an embodiment, the method includes enteral
10 administration to a patient in need thereof for treatment of
   a said condition of a pharmaceutically effective amount of
   any one of the peptides described herein.
        In an embodiment, the method includes parenteral
   administration to a patient in need thereof for treatment of
15 a said condition of a pharmaceutically effective amount of
   any one of the peptides described herein.   For parenteral
   administration  (including intraperitoneal, subcutaneous,
   intravenous, intradermal or intramuscular injection),
   solutions of a peptide of the present disclosure in either
20 sesame or peanut oil or in aqueous propylene glycol may be
   employed, for example.   The aqueous solutions should be
   suitably buffered  (preferably pH greater than 8) if necessary
   and the liquid diluent first rendered isotonic.   These
   aqueous solutions are suitable for intravenous  injection
25 purposes.  The oily solutions are suitable for
   intraarticular, intramuscular and subcutaneous injection
   purposes.  The preparation of all these solutions under
   sterile conditions is readily accomplished by standard
   pharmaceutical techniques well known to those skilled in the
30 art.  For parenteral application, examples  of suitable
   preparations include solutions, preferably oily or aqueous
   solutions as well as suspensions, emulsions,  or implants,
   including suppositories.   Peptides may be formulated in
                                17

   sterile form in multiple or single dose formats  such as being
   dispersed in a fluid carrier such as sterile physiological
   saline or 5% saline dextrose solutions commonly used with
   injectables.
 5      Said method may include a preliminary step of
   determining whether the patient suffers from a said
   condition, and/or a subsequent step of determining to what
   extent said treatment is effective in mitigating the
   condition in said patient, e.g. in each case, carrying out an
10 oral glucose tolerance test or a resting blood sugar level.
        For improved control over the weight of the patient, to
   produce a loss of weight or an avoidance of weight gain, the
   active compound is preferably administered once daily or more
   such as at least twice per day, e.g. from 2-4 times per day.
15 Formulations of the active compound may contain a unit dosage
   appropriate for such an administration schedule.   The active
   compounds may be administered with a view to controlling the
   weight of a patient undergoing treatment for diabetes or
   metabolic syndrome.
20      Oral enteral formulations are for ingestion by
   swallowing for subsequent release in the intestine below the
   stomach, and hence delivery via the portal vein to the liver,
   as opposed to formulations to be held in the mouth to allow
   transfer to the bloodstream via the sublingual or buccal
25 routes.
        Suitable dosage forms for use in the present disclosure
   include tablets, mini-tablets, capsules, granules, pellets,
   powders, effervescent solids and chewable solid formulations.
   Such formulations may include gelatin which is preferably
30 hydrolysed gelatin or low molecular weight gelatin.   Such
   formulations may be obtainable by freeze drying a homogeneous
   aqueous solution comprising calcitonin or a fragment or
                                18

   conjugate thereof and hydrolysed gelatin or low molecular
   weight gelatin and further processing the resulting solid
   material into said oral pharmaceutical formulation, and
   wherein the gelatin may have a mean molecular weight from
 5 1000 to 15000  Daltons.  Such formulations may include a
   protective carrier compound such as 5-CNAC or others as
   disclosed herein.
        Whilst oral  formulations such as tablets and capsules
   are preferred, compositions for use in the present disclosure
10 may take the form of syrups, elixirs or the like and
   suppositories or the like. Oral delivery is generally the
   delivery route of choice since it is convenient, relatively
   easy and generally painless, resulting in greater patient
   compliance relative to other modes of delivery.   However,
15 biological, chemical and physical barriers such as varying pH
   in the gastrointestinal tract, powerful digestive enzymes,
   and active agent impermeable gastrointestinal membranes,
   makes oral delivery of calcitonin like peptides to mammals
   problematic, e.g. the oral delivery of calcitonins, which are
20 long-chain polypeptide hormones  secreted by the
   parafollicular cells of the thyroid gland in mammals and by
   the ultimobranchial gland of birds and fish, originally
   proved difficult due, at least in part, to the insufficient
   stability of calcitonin in the gastrointestinal tract as well
25 as the inability of calcitonin to be readily transported
   through the intestinal walls into the blood stream.
        Suitable oral formulations are however described below.
   Treatment of Patients
        In an embodiment, a calcitonin mimetic of the present
30 disclosure is  administered at adequate dosage to maintain
   serum levels  of the mimetic in patients between 5 picograms
   and 500 nanograms per milliliter, preferably between 50
                                 19

   picograms and 250 nanograms, e.g. between 1 and 100 nanograms
   per milliliter.   The serum levels may be measured by
   radioimmunoassay techniques   known in the art.   The attending
   physician may monitor patient response, and may then alter
 5 the dosage somewhat to account for individual patient
   metabolism and response. Near simultaneous release is best
   achieved by administering all components of the present
   disclosure as a single pill or capsule. However, the
   disclosure also includes, for example, dividing the required
10 amount of the calcitonin mimetic among two or more tablets or
   capsules which may be administered together such that they
   together provide the necessary amount of all ingredients.
   "Pharmaceutical composition,"    as used herein includes but is
   not limited to a complete dosage appropriate to a particular
15 administration to a patient regardless of whether one or more
   tablets or capsules   (or other dosage forms) are recommended
   at a given administration.
        A calcitonin mimetic of the present disclosure may be
   formulated for oral administration using the methods employed
20 in the Unigene Enteripep@ products.     These may include the
   methods as described in US   Patent No.  5,912,014, US Patent
   No. 6,086,918, US  Patent No.  6,673,574, US  Patent No.
   7,316,819, US Patent No.   8,093,207,  and US Publication No.
   2009/0317462.   In particular, it may include the use of
25 conjugation of the compound to a membrane translocator such
   as the protein transduction domain of the HIV TAT protein,
   co-formulation with one or more protease inhibitors,     and/or a
   pH lowering agent which may be coated and/or an acid
   resistant protective vehicle and/or an absorption enhancer
30 which may be a surfactant.
        In an embodiment, a calcitonin mimetic of the present
   disclosure is preferably formulated for oral delivery in a
   manner known in U.S. Patent Publication No.    2009/0317462.
                                 20

   One preferred oral dosage form in accordance with the present
   disclosure is  set forth in Table 5 below:
   TABLE 5 -  COMPONENTS OF A SOLID DOSAGE FORMULATION
        ACTIVE AGENT OR             FUNCTION
        EXCIPIENT
        A Calcitonin Mimetic        Active agent
        selected from one of SEQ
        ID NO:1-8
        Coated Citric Acid          Protease Inhibitor
        Particles
        Lauroylcarnitine            Absorption Enhancer
        Nonionic Polymer            Subcoat
        Eudragit L30D-55            Enteric Coat
 5       In an embodiment, a calcitonin mimetic of the present
   disclosure may be formulated for enteral, especially oral,
   administration by admixture with a suitable carrier compound.
   Suitable carrier compounds  include those described in US
   Patent No. 5,773,647 and US  Patent No.   5866536 and amongst
10 these, 5-CNAC  (N-(5-chlorosalicyloyl)-8-aminocaprylic acid,
   commonly as its disodium salt) is particularly effective.
   Other preferred carriers or delivery agents are SNAD     (sodium
   salt of 10-(2-Hydroxybenzamido)decanoic acid) and SNAC
    (sodium salt of N-(8-[2-hydroxybenzoyl]amino)caprylic acid).
15 In an embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition of the present
   disclosure comprises a delivery effective amount of carrier
   such as 5-CNAC, i.e.  an amount sufficient to deliver the
   compound for the desired effect.    Generally, the carrier such
   as 5-CNAC is present in an amount of 2.5%    to 99.4% by weight,
20 more preferably 25%  to 50% by weight of the total
   composition.
                                 21

             In addition, WO 00/059863 discloses the disodium salts
   of formula I
                   R4          O
       R3                            N11R 5Y       OH
                                     H         O
             R  2
   R
                              OH
                   Ri
   wherein
 5 R ,    R 2,   R  ,  and R4 are independently hydrogen, -OH, -NR R',
   halogen,         Ci-C4 alkyl,       or Ci-C4 alkoxy;
   R 5 is      a substituted         or unsubstituted      C2-C16   alkylene,
   substituted or unsubstituted C2-C16 alkenylene, substituted or
   unsubstituted             C1-C12 alkyl (arylene),      or substituted     or
10 unsubstituted             aryl  (Ci-C12  alkylene) ;   and R6 and R 7 are
   independently hydrogen,                 oxygen,    or Ci-C4 alkyl;    and hydrates
   and solvates thereof as particularly efficacious for the oral
   delivery of active agents,                   such as calcitonins, e.g. salmon
   calcitonin, and these may be used in the present disclosure.
15           Preferred enteric formulations using optionally
   micronised 5-CNAC may be generally as described in
   W02005/014031.
             The compound may be formulated for oral administration
   using the methods employed in the Capsitonin product of Bone
20 Medical Limited.               These may include the methods incorporated
   in Axcess formulations.                  More particularly, the active
   ingredient may be encapsulated in an enteric capsule capable
   of withstanding transit through the stomach. This may contain
   the active compound together with a hydrophilic aromatic
25 alcohol absorption enhancer, for instance as described in
   W002/028436.              In a known manner the enteric coating may
                                                  22

   become permeable in a pH sensitive manner, e.g. at a pH of
   from 3 to 7.   W02004/091584 also describes  suitable
   formulation methods using aromatic alcohol absorption
   enhancers.
 5       The compound may be formulated using the methods seen in
   the Oramed products, which may include formulation with
   omega-3 fatty acid as seen in W02007/029238 or as described
   in US5,102,666.
         Generally, the pharmaceutically acceptable salts
10  (especially mono or di sodium salts),  solvates  (e.g. alcohol
   solvates) and hydrates  of these carriers or delivery agents
   may be used.
         Oral administration of the pharmaceutical compositions
   according to the disclosure can be accomplished regularly,
15 e.g. once or more on a daily or weekly basis;    intermittently,
   e.g. irregularly during a day or week;   or cyclically, e.g.
   regularly for a period of days or weeks followed by a period
   without administration.   The dosage form of the
   pharmaceutical compositions of the presently disclosed
20 embodiments can be any known form, e.g. liquid or solid
   dosage forms.   The liquid dosage forms include solution
   emulsions, suspensions,  syrups and elixirs.   In addition to
   the active compound and carrier such as 5-CNAC, the liquid
   formulations may also  include inert excipients commonly used
25 in the art such as,  solubilizing agents e.g. ethanol;   oils
   such as cottonseed, castor and sesame oils; wetting agents;
   emulsifying agents;  suspending agents;  sweeteners;
   flavourings;  and solvents such as water.   The solid dosage
   forms include capsules, soft-gel capsules, tablets, caplets,
30 powders, granules  or other solid oral dosage forms, all of
   which can be prepared by methods well known in the art.     The
   pharmaceutical compositions may additionally comprise
   additives in amounts customarily employed including, but not
                                23

   limited to, a pH adjuster, a preservative, a flavorant, a
   taste-masking agent, a fragrance, a humectant, a tonicifier,
   a colorant, a surfactant, a plasticizer, a lubricant such as
   magnesium stearate, a flow aid, a compression aid, a
 5 solubilizer, an excipient, a diluent              such as microcrystalline
   cellulose, e.g. Avicel         PH 102 supplied by FMC corporation, or
   any combination thereof.             Other additives may include
   phosphate buffer salts, citric acid, glycols, and other
   dispersing agents.       The composition may also include one or
10 more enzyme inhibitors, such as actinonin or epiactinonin and
   derivatives thereof;        aprotinin, Trasylol and Bowman-Birk
   inhibitor.   Further, a transport inhibitor, i.e.              a [rho]
   glycoprotein such as Ketoprofin, may be present in the
   compositions of the present disclosure.               The solid
15 pharmaceutical compositions of the instant disclosure can be
   prepared by conventional methods e.g. by blending a mixture
   of the active compound, the carrier such as 5-CNAC, and any
   other ingredients,    kneading, and filling into capsules or,
   instead of filling into capsules, molding followed by further
20 tableting or compression-molding to give tablets.                In
   addition, a solid dispersion may be formed by known methods
   followed by further processing to form a tablet or capsule.
   Preferably, the ingredients              in the pharmaceutical
   compositions of the instant disclosure are homogeneously or
25 uniformly mixed throughout the solid dosage form.
        Alternatively, the active compound may be formulated as
   a conjugate with said carrier, which may be an oligomer as
   described in US2003/0069170, e.g.
               O
   compoun-[-C       (CH 2 )7 (OC 2 H4 )7 0CH 3] 2
30   Such conjugates may be administered in combination with a
   fatty acid and a bile salt as described there.
                                            24

        Conujugates with polyethylene glycol     (PEG) may be used,
   as described for instance in Mansoor et al.
        Alternatively, active compounds may be admixed with
   nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine    (SNAP) and Carbopol
 5 solution or with taurocholate and Carbapol     solution to form a
   mucoadhesive emulsion.
        The active compound may be formulated by loading into
   chitosan nanocapsules as disclosed in Prego et al      (optionally
   PEG modified as in Prego Prego C,   Torres D,   Fernandez-Megia
10 E, Novoa-Carballal R,  Quifnon E, Alonso MJ.)   or chitosan or
   PEG coated lipid nanoparticles as disclosed in Garcia-Fuentes
   et al.  Chitosan nanoparticles for this purpose may be
   iminothiolane modified as described in Guggi et al.       They may
   be formulated in water/oil/water emulsions     as described in
15 Dogru et al.  The bioavailability of active compounds may be
   increased by the use of taurodeoxycholate or lauroyl
   carnitine as described in Sinko et al or in Song et al.
   Generally, suitable nanoparticles as carriers are discussed
   in de la Fuente et al and may be used in the present
20 disclosure.
        Other suitable strategies for oral formulation include
   the use of a transient permeability enhancer      (TPE) system as
   described in W02005/094785 of Chiasma Ltd.      TPE makes use of
   an oily suspension of solid hydrophilic particles in a
25 hydrophobic medium to protect the drug molecule from
   inactivation by the hostile gastrointestinal      (GI) environment
   and at the same time acts on the GI wall to induce permeation
   of its cargo drug molecules.
        Further included is the use of glutathione or compounds
30 containing numerous thiol groups as described in
   US2008/0200563 to inhibit the action of efflux pumps on the
   mucous membrane.  Practical examples of such techniques are
                                 25

   described also in Caliceti,     P. Salmaso, S.,   Walker, G.  and
   Bernkop-Schnirch, A.    (2004)  'Development and in vivo
   evaluation of an oral    insulin-PEG delivery system.'     Eur. J.
   Pharm. Sci.,  22,  315-323, in Guggi, D.,    Krauland, A.H.,   and
 5 Bernkop-Schnirch, A.    (2003)  'Systemic peptide delivery via
   the stomach:  in vivo evaluation of an oral dosage form for
   salmon calcitonin'.   J. Control. Rel.   92,125-135,   and in
   Bernkop-Schnirch, A.,    Pinter, Y.,  Guggi, D.,   Kahlbacher, H.,
   Schoffmann, G.,   Schuh, M.,   Schmerold, I.,  Del Curto, M.D.,
10 D'Antonio, M.,  Esposito, P.    and Huck, Ch.   (2005)  'The use of
   thiolated polymers as carrier matrix in oral peptide
   delivery' -  Proof of concept. J. Control. Release, 106, 26
   33.
        The active compound may be formulated in seamless micro
15 spheres as described in W02004/084870 where the active
   pharmaceutical ingredient is     solubilised as an emulsion,
   microemulsion or suspension formulated into mini-spheres;         and
   variably coated either by conventional or novel coating
   technologies.    The result is   an encapsulated drug in "pre
20 solubilised" form which when administered orally provides for
   predetermined instant or sustained release of the active drug
   to specific locations and at specific rates along the
   gastrointestinal tract.     In essence, pre-solubilization of
   the drug enhances   the predictability of its kinetic profile
25 while simultaneously enhancing permeability and drug
   stability.
        One may employ chitosan coated nanocapsules as described
   in US2009/0074824.    The active molecule administered with
   this technology is protected inside the nanocapsules since
30 they are stable against the action of the gastric fluid.          In
   addition, the mucoadhesive properties of the system enhances
   the time of adhesion to the intestine walls       (it has been
   verified that there is    a delay in the gastrointestinal
                                   26

   transit of these systems) facilitating a more effective
   absorption of the active molecule.
        Methods developed by TSR1   Inc. may be used. These
   include Hydrophilic Solubilization Technology    (HST) in which
 5 gelatin, a naturally derived collagen extract carrying both
   positive and negative charges, coats the particles of the
   active ingredient contained in lecithin micelles and prevents
   their aggregation or clumping.    This results in an improved
   wettability of hydrophobic drug particles through polar
10 interactions.  In addition, the amphiphilic lecithin reduces
   surface tension between the dissolution fluid and the
   particle surface.
        The active ingredient may be formulated with
   cucurbiturils as excipients.
15      Alternatively, one may employ the GIPET technology of
   Merrion Pharmaceuticals to produce enteric coated tablets
   containing the active ingredient with an absorption enhancer
   which may be a medium chain fatty acid or a medium chain
   fatty acid derivative as described in US2007/0238707 or a
20 membrane translocating peptide as described in US7268214.
        One may employ GIREST " technology which consists of a
   controlled-release dosage form inside an inflatable pouch,
   which is placed in a drug capsule for oral administration.
   Upon dissolution of the capsule, a gas-generating system
25 inflates the pouch in the stomach.    In clinical trials the
   pouch has been shown to be retained in the stomach for 16-24
   hours.
        Alternatively, the active may be conjugated to a
   protective modifier that allows it to withstand enzymatic
30 degradation in the stomach and facilitate   its absorption.
   The active may be conjugated covalently with a monodisperse,
   short-chain methoxy polyethylene glycol glycolipids
                                 27

   derivative that is  crystallized and lyophilized into the dry
   active pharmaceutical ingredient after purification.     Such
   methods are described in US5438040   and at www.biocon.com.
        One may also employ a hepatic-directed vesicle    (HDV) for
 5 active delivery.   An HDV may consist of liposomes   ( 150 nm
   diameter) encapsulating the active, which also contain a
   hepatocyte-targeting molecule in their lipid bilayer.     The
   targeting molecule directs the delivery of the encapsulated
   active to the liver cells and therefore relatively minute
10 amounts of active are required for effect.    Such technology
   is described in US2009/0087479 and further at
   www.diasome.com.
        The active may be incorporated into a composition
   containing additionally a substantially non-aqueous
15 hydrophilic medium comprising an alcohol and a cosolvent,     in
   association with a medium chain partial glyceride, optionally
   in admixture with a long-chain PEG species   as described in
   US2002/0115592 in relation to insulin.
        Alternatively, use may be made of intestinal patches as
20 described in Shen Z, Mitragotri  S, Pharm Res. 2002
   Apr;19(4):391-5  'Intestinal patches for oral drug delivery'.
        The active may be incorporated into an erodible matrix
   formed from a hydrogel blended with a hydrophobic polymer as
   described in US Patent No.  7189414.
25      Suitable oral dosage levels  for adult humans to be
   treated may be in the range of 0.05 to 5mg, preferably about
   0.1 to 2.5mg.
        The frequency of dosage treatment of patients may be
   from 1 to six times daily, for instance from two to four
30 times daily.  Treatment will desirably be maintained over a
   prolonged period of at least 6 weeks, preferably at least 6
   months, preferably at least a year, and optionally for life.
                                28

        Combination treatments   for relevant conditions may be
   carried out using a composition according to the present
   disclosure and separate administration of one or more other
   therapeutics.   Alternatively, the composition according to
 5 the present disclosure may incorporate one or more other
   therapeutics for combined administration.
        Combination therapies according to the present
   disclsoure include combinations of an active compound as
   described with insulin, GLP-2,   GLP-1, GIP, or amylin, or
10 generally with other anti-diabetics. Thus combination
   therapies including co-formulations may be made with insulin
   sensitizers  including biguanides such as Metformin, Buformin
   and Phenformin, TZD's   (PPAR) such as Balaglitazone,
   Pioglitazone, Rivoglitazone, Rosiglitazone and Troglitazone,
15 dual PPAR agonists such as Aleglitazar, Muraglitazar and
   Tesaglitazar, or secretagogues including sulphonylureas such
   as Carbutamide, Chloropropamide, Gliclazide, Tolbutamide,
   Tolazamide, Glipizide, Glibenclamide, Glyburide, Gliquidone,
   Glyclopyramide and Glimepriride, Meglitinides/glinides     (K+)
20 such as Nateglinide, Repaglinide and Mitiglinide, GLP-1
   analogs such as Exenatide, Liraglutide and Albiglutide, DPP-4
   inhibitors such as Alogliptin, Linagliptin, Saxagliptin,
   Sitagliptin and Vildagliptin, insulin analogs or special
   formulations such as   (fast acting) Insulin lispro,  Insulin
25 aspart, Insulin glulisine,   (long acting) Insulin glargine,
   Insulin detemir),  inhalable insulin -  Exubra and NPH insulin,
   and others including alpha-glucosidase inhibitors such as
   Acarbose, Miglitol and Voglibose, amylin analogues such as
   Pramlintide, SGLT2 inhibitors such as Dapagliflozin,
30 Remogliflozin and Sergliflozin as well as miscellaneous ones
   including Benfluorex and Tolrestat.
        Further combinations include co-administration or co
   formulation with leptins.    Leptin resistance is a well
                                 29

   established component of type 2 diabetes;   however, injections
   of leptin have so far failed to improve upon this condition.
   In contrast, there is evidence supporting that amylin, and
   thereby molecules with amylin-like abilities, as the salmon
 5 calcitonin mimetics, are able to improve leptin sensitivity.
   Amylin/leptin combination has shown a synergistic effect on
   body weight and food intake,   and also insulin resistance
   [Kusakabe  T et al].
        The presently disclosed embodiments is described in the
10 following Examples, which are set forth to aid in the
   understanding of the disclosure, and should not be construed
   to limit in any way the scope of the disclosure as defined in
   the claims which follow thereafter.    The following examples
   are put forth so as to provide those of ordinary skill in the
15 art with a complete disclosure and description of how to make
   and use the described embodiments, and are not    intended to
   limit the scope of the present disclosure nor are they
   intended to represent that the experiments below are all or
   the only experiments performed.    Efforts have been made to
20 ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used    (e.g. amounts,
   temperature, etc.)   but some experimental errors and
   deviations should be accounted for.    Unless indicated
   otherwise, parts are parts by weight, molecular weight is
   weight average molecular weight,   temperature is  in degrees
25 Centigrade, and pressure is   at or near atmospheric.
   Results  are shown in the accompanying drawings,   as follows:
   Figure 1: Raw data showing the activity of KBPs of Table 3 on
   the CTR head to head with sCT and UGP302/KBP-042 at different
   timepoints.
30 Figure 2:  Activation of the CTR as a function of time, by
   fixed concentrations of the different ligands.
                                 30

   Figure 3:  Dose-response activation of the AMY-R for the
   different ligands when added to a cell-line expressing the
   AMY-R.
   Figure 4:  Competitive binding of tested compounds on cells
 5 expressing the CTR   (left panel) and AMY-R   (right panel),  with
   pIC50 figures  in the table.
   Figure 5:  Dose-response activation of the CGRP-R for the
   different ligands.
   Figure 6:  The effect of a single dose of KBP-056 on food
10 intake, bodyweight and PPG.
   Figure 7:  The effect of three weeks of treatment with
   UGP302/KBP-042, KBP-023, KBP-056 and KBP.088 on FPG and
   HbAlc.
   Figure 8:  The effect of the KBP compounds on resorption of
15 type I collagen, top panel,   and on resorption of type II
   collagen, bottom panel.
   Figure 9 shows results obtained in Example 7 of a comparison
   between the effects of compounds KBP-088 and KBP-089 on food
   intake in obese rats.
20 Figure 10 shows short term food intake measurements obtained
   in Example 7 in a comparison between peptide KBP-089 of the
   invention and known peptide KBP-042.
   Figure 11 shows long term food intake measurements      (upper
   panel) and body weight change    (lower panel) for these
25 peptides.
   Figures 12A-12F show further results obtained in Example 1
   for cAMP induction by action on the calcitonin receptor
    (Figures 12A, B and E)  and on the amylin receptor    (Figures D
   and E)  and show further results obtained in Example 7 in food
30 intake measurements   (Figure 12F).
                                 31

   Examples
   In the following examples, the following materials and
 5 methods were employed.
   Cells and Cell Lines
      The following cell lines expressing the calcitonin, amylin
   and  CGRP   receptors   were   purchased    and   cultured    according   to
   the manufacturer's instructions.
10    1. Calcitonin     Receptor    (CTR):   U2OS-CALCR      from    DiscoveRx
         (Cat. No.:    93-0566C3).
      2. Amylin    Receptor    (AMY-R)     CHO-K1     CALCR   +   RAMP3   from
         DiscoveRx    (Cat. No.:   93-0268C2).
      3. CGRP   Receptor    (CGRP-R):      CHO-K1     CALCRL   +   RAMP1  from
15       DiscoveRx    (Cat. No.:   93-0269C2).
      In independent bioassays, CTR, AMY-R and CGRP-R cells were
   treated   with    for  the   indicated    timepoints     with    increasing
   doses   of   sCT,   UGP-302/KBP-042      or   the   KBPs   identified     in
20 Table3   (0, 0.001,   0.01,   0.1,  1, 10,   and 100 nM).
   Example 1:    B-Arrestin   Assay
         PathHunter    B-Arrestin   GPCR assays are whole cell,
   functional assays that directly measure the ability of a
25 ligand to activate a GPCR by detecting the interaction of                B
   Arrestin with the activated GPCR.           Because Arrestin
   recruitment is independent of G-protein signaling, these
   assays offer a powerful and universal screening and profiling
   platform that can be used for virtually any Gi-, Gs,               or Gq
30 coupled receptor.
                                      32

         In this system, the GPCR is    fused in frame with the
   small enzyme fragment ProLinkTM and co-expressed in cells
   stably expressing a fusion protein of     B-Arrestin  and the
   larger, N-terminal deletion mutant of     B-gal  (called enzyme
 5 acceptor or EA).    Activation of the GPCR stimulates binding
   of  B-Arrestin  to the ProLink-tagged GPCR and forces
   complementation of the two enzyme fragments, resulting in the
   formation of an active   B-gal   enzyme.  This interaction leads
   to an increase in enzyme activity that can be measured using
10 chemiluminescent PathHunter Detection Reagents.
         The assay was performed in white 384 well plates
    (Greiner Bio-One, 784080).    Cells were seeded 2500 cells per
   well in 10 pL cell-type specific medium the day prior to the
   experiment.    To quantify the GPCR-mediated    B-arrestin
                               m
15 recruitment the Pathhunter      Detection Kit  (93-0001,
   DiscoverX) was used and assay performed accordingly to the
   manufacturer's instructions.
         Results  are seen in Figures 1, 2 and 3.     As seen in
   Figure 1, the peptides are quite similar in activity;
20 however, with increasing time KBP-056 shows a superior
   ability to activate and maintain activation of the CTR.       This
   is even better illustrated in Figure 2, where the individual
   ligands  are plotted at one given concentration and as a
   function of time. Here it is     apparent that KBP-056 is
25 superior to the other peptides in terms of calcitonin
   receptor activation.
         Another important trait of this class     of molecules is
   the ability to activate the amylin receptor AMY-R, and as
   seen in Figure 3,   the KBPs are fully capable of activating
30 this receptor, and KBP-088    is more potent that the classical
   AMY-R agonist sCT.
         In a subset of the figures,    the beta-arrestin assay was
   used to assess prolonged receptor activation. This was done
                                  33

   using the Calcitonin Receptor      (CTR): U2OS-CALCR from
   DiscoveRx    (Cat. No.:  93-0566C3) cell  line, and as opposed to
   the classical 3 hour output, beta-arrestin accumulation was
   conducted over 24,     48 and 72 hour and then analyzed.
 5       Peptides for use in the invention were ranked in terms
   of their ability to activate the CTR and AMY-R in vitro in
   decreasing order, as follows:
                                              RANK      RANK      RANK
    Intervention      4h     24h      48h     (4h)      (24h)     (48h)
       KBP-089       1,8      0,7     5,4       +         +         +
       KBP-021       2,1      0,6     6,9       +         +         +
       KBP-019       1,3      0,2     11,8      +         +         +
       KBP-088       1,9      0,4     11,4      +         +         +
      KBP-042*       2,2      1,2     14,3      +         +         0
       nf-hCT*       2,7     15,9     15,9      +         0         0
      Vehicle*       8,5     16,6     19,3      0         0         0
         *  Comparative
10 Example 2:    Competitive ligand binding
         In this Example we demonstrate the relative abilities of
   test compounds to bind the calcitonin and amylin receptors.
   Corresponding to the beta-arrestin induction experiments, we
   performed competitive ligand binding experiments using the
15 cells expressing the CTR and the AMY-R.         In studying ligand
   binding on cells,     15.000 CTR or AMY-R cells were seeded in
   96-well plate and cells were treated with 0.1 nM 125
   conjugated sCT with or without the presence of unlabelled KBP
   in increasing doses for 60 min at 370 C.       After incubation the
20 supernatant was removed and cells were washed twice in 200 p1
   PBS.    The cells were lysed using RIPAt buffer       (30 mM M NaCl,
   50 mM Tris-HCl,     5 mM EDTA, 1 % Deoxycholic acid, 10      % SDS,
   Protease inhibitor tablet mini      (1 tablet:10 ml))     and lysates
   as well were collected for measurement on a y-counter.
25       Results   are seen in Figure 4.    Firstly, we     found that
   all ligands bound potently to both receptors;        however, in
                                   34

   terms of affinity KBP-088 was better than the other ligands,
   particularly on the AMY-R.
   Example 3:  B-arrestin recruitment tested on the CGRP-receptor
 5            As peptides with the ability to activate the amylin
   receptor have been shown to activate the CGRP-R, an effect
   which may be detrimental to the overall effect of the
   compounds, we assessed whether the KBPs activated the CGRP
   receptor. As  seen in Figure 5, unlike salmon calcitonin, none
10 of the KBP compounds activated the CGRP-R.
   Example 4:  In vivo activity test on bodyweight.
        To ensure the in vivo activity of this class of
   peptides, an acute test of the ability of KBP-056 to reduce
15 food intake, bodyweight and post-prandial glucose compared to
   UGP302/KBP-042 was  conducted.   Male Sprague-Dawley rats were
   fed high fat diet for 8 weeks to induce obesity, and were
   then exposed to a single subcutaneous dose of 5pg/kg KBP-056,
   UGP302/KBP-042 or vehicle   (saline) (5 rats per group),  and the
20 effect on food intake, bodyweight and blood glucose was
   assessed.   Blood was collected from the tail vein after 18
   hours of dosing. Whole blood glucose    levels were determined
   with an ACCU-CHEK@ Avia blood glucose meter    (Roche
   Diagnostics, Rotkreuz,  Switzerland).
25      As seen in Figure 6, KBP-056 strongly reduced food
   intake over an 18-hour period, which is also manifested in a
   significant weight loss.   Interestingly, the weight    loss
   appears to exceed that caused by UGP302/KBP-042.     Finally, a
   prominent reduction in post-prandial glucose levels was
30 observed, thereby confirming that this novel class of
   peptides shows substantial   in vivo activity.
                                 35

   Example  5:   In   vivo  activity     test on  fasting     plasma  glucose
   and HbAlc
         To assess the effects of the peptides in relation to
   regulation of blood glucose levels, male ZDF rats, which are
 5 the gold standard model of Type 2 Diabetes were treated for 3
   weeks with the 3 most promising KBPs          (023, 056 and 088)      and
   an active comparator       (UGP302/KBP-042).      Male ZDF    (fa/fa) rats
   were obtained at the age of 7 weeks from Charles River
   Laboratories     (Kisslegg, Deutschland).      All animals were housed
10 at the animal facility at Nordic Bioscience with a constant
   temperature    (21-23'C) and relative humidity          (55-65%) on a 12
   h  light/dark cycle with free access to Purina 5008 rat chow
    (Brogaarden, Lynge, Denmark) and tap water.             At the age of 8
   weeks, the animals were randomized into five groups of 8 rats
15 each based upon fasting blood glucose and body weight
    (Vehicle (saline),     UGP302/KBP-042 5pg/kg/day, KBP-023 5
   pg/kg/day, KBP-056 5 pg/kg/day and KBP-088             5 pg/kg/day) and
   dosing was done subcutaneously once daily.              The animals were
   treated for a total of 3 weeks to assess the effect of the
20 peptides on fasting blood glucose.          Blood glucose was
   monitored using the Accu-Check Avia monitoring system               (Roche
   Diagnostics, Rotkreuz,        Switzerland) and HbAlc levels by the
   DCA VantageT m Analyzer       (Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics,
   Deerfield, IL).
25       Fasting blood glucose and HbAlc were assessed after
   three weeks, and as seen in Figure 7, both KBP-056 and KBP
   088 were highly active with respect to reduction of FPG and
   HbAlc, and interestingly they appeared superior to
   UGP302/KBP-042, indicating that the aminoacid substitutions
30 improve efficacy, as also seen in the in vitro data.
   Example 6:  The effect of KBP-056 on bone resorption and
   cartilage degradation.
                                       36

        In view of the relationship between the KBPs and
   different calcitonins, and the well-known bone and cartilage
   protective effects of salmon calcitonin, the effects of KBP
   056 on bone resorption   (measured by CTX-I)  and cartilage
 5 degradation  (Assessed by CTX-II) were analyzed in male rats
   on HFD. As seen in Figure 8 KBP-056 dose and time-dependently
   reduced both CTX-I  and CTX-II,  with maximum inhibition
   reached three hours after dosing and at doses exceeding
   1pg/kg/day.   This confirmed that the KBPs maintain their
10 beneficial effects on bone and cartilage despite the amino
   acid changes. Furthermore, based on their superiority in
   other tests, we expect these effects to be superior as well.
   Example 7:  comparative effect of KBP 088 and KBP 089 on food
15 intake in obese rats.
        Rats were fed a High-Fat-Diet for 14 weeks prior to the
   experiment to induce obesity.    They were then randomized into
   7 groups  (Vehicle (0.9% NaCl),  KBP-089  (doses: 1.25, 2.5,
   5pg/kg) and KBP-088   (doses: 1.25, 2.5, 5pg/kg).   They were
20 fasted overnight and then treated with a single dose of
   peptide or vehicle in the morning using subcutaneous
   administration.   The food intake was monitored in the
   following intervals   (0-4hours, 4-24 hours and 24-48 hours).
   As seen in Figure 9, both KBP-088 and KBP-089 led to a
25 reduction in food intake within the 4 hour interval, and the
   effect was maintained to 24 hours.    In the interval between
   24 and 48 hours only KBP-089 led to a reduction in food
   intake indicating that this molecule is superior to KBP-088.
        In Figure 12F, similar test results are shown for a
30 wider range of peptides according to the invention.
        Further similar studies were undertaken over different
   time periods and with different peptides and the results are
   seen in Figure 10  and Figure 11.   The ability of KBP089 to
                                 37

   suppress food intake over 72 hours was    compared to that of
   KBPO42 as control and the results are seen in Figure 10.
         To further investigate the potency of KBP-089 against
   KBP-042  obese rats were dosed with 2.5pg/kg/day given as
 5 subcutaneous injection of either KBP-089 or KBP-042 and then
   two control groups, a vehicle and a calorie restriction
   group, in which the food intake was matched to the food
   intake of the KBP-089 group to shed light on whether effects
   independent of food intake could be observed.
10       In Figure 11;  the effect of the peptides on food intake
   and bodyweight during the eight week treatment period is
   shown in the upper and lower panels respectively. As     can be
   seen both peptides reduce food intake dramatically in the
   beginning as expected, after which the effect is    reduced and
15 the food intake gradually normalizes. The effect on
   bodyweight is  shown in Figure 11,   lower panel, where it is
   clearly seen that both peptides cause a substantial weight
   loss;  however, the weight loss introduced by KBP-089 is
   greater than that introduced by KBP-042 showing superiority.
20 Additionally, when comparing KBP-089 to the calorie
   restricted control group    (pair-fed), which has received
   exactly the same amount of food as the KBP-089 group over the
   study period, it is clear that the weight reduction is not
   only mediated by a restriction of food intake, but also by
25 other effects.
         In this specification, unless expressly otherwise
   indicated, the word   'or' is used in the sense of an operator
   that returns a true value when either or both of the stated
   conditions is met, as opposed to the operator    'exclusive or'
30 which requires that only one of the conditions    is met. The
   word  'comprising' is used in the sense of   'including' rather
   than in to mean   'consisting of'.   All prior teachings
   acknowledged above are hereby incorporated by reference. No
                                  38

  acknowledgement of any prior published document herein should
  be taken to be an admission or representation that the
  teaching thereof was common general knowledge in Australia or
  elsewhere at the date hereof.
5
                              39

   CLAIMS
   1.     A peptide having an amino acid sequence in accordance
 5        with SEQ ID NO:8 or SEQ ID NO:53, each of which may be
          carboxylated at its N-terminal or otherwise modified to
          reduce the positive charge of the first amino acid and
          independently of that may be amidated at its C
          terminal, and in each of which the 1 and 7 position
10        cysteine residues may together be replaced by a
          aminosuberic acid  (Asu).
   2.     A peptide as claimed in claim 1, having an amino acid
          sequence of any of SEQ ID NO: 5-8, or 54-59, each of
          which may be carboxylated at its N-terminal or
15        otherwise modified to reduce the positive charge of the
          first amino acid and independently of that may be
          amidated at its C-terminal, and in each of which the 1
          and 7 position cysteine residues may together be
          replaced by a-aminosuberic acid  (Asu).
20
   3.     A peptide as claimed in claim 1, having an amino acid
          sequence of any of SEQ ID NO: 28-43,  or 60-77 each of
          which may be carboxylated at its N-terminal or
          otherwise modified to reduce the positive charge of the
25        first amino acid and independently of that may be
          amidated at its C-terminal, and in each of which the 1
          and 7 position cysteine residues may together be
          replaced by a-aminosuberic acid  (Asu).
   4.     A peptide as claimed in claim 1, having an amino acid
30        sequence of any of SEQ ID NO:45-52,  or 20-27; each of
          which may be carboxylated at its N-terminal or
          otherwise modified to reduce the positive charge of the
          first amino acid and independently of that may be
                                 40

       amidated at its C-terminal, and in each of which the 1
       and 7 position cysteine residues may together be
       replaced by a-aminosuberic acid    (Asu).
   5.  A peptide as claimed in claim 1, having an amino acid
 5     sequence of any of SEQ ID NO:9, 78,    79, 10, 11, 80,  12,
       or 44.
   6.  A peptide as claimed in any preceding claim, formulated
       for enteral administration.
   7.  A peptide as claimed in any preceding claim, formulated
10     for parenteral administration.
   8.  A peptide as claimed in claim 5, formulated for
       injection.
   9.  A peptide as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3,
       formulated with a carrier for oral administration.
15 10. A peptide as claimed in claim 7, wherein the carrier
       comprises  5-CNAC, SNAD, or SNAC.
   11. A peptide as claimed in claim 7, wherein the peptide is
       formulated in a pharmaceutical composition for oral
       administration comprising coated citric acid particles,
20     and wherein the coated citric acid particles increase
       the oral bioavailability of the peptide.
   12. A peptide as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3,     for
       use as a medicament.
   13. A peptide as claimed in claim 10,    for use in treating
25     diabetes  (Type I and/or Type II),   excess bodyweight,
       excessive food consumption, metabolic syndrome,
                               41

        rheumatoid arthritis, non-alcoholic fatty liver
        disease, osteoporosis, or osteoarthritis, poorly
        regulated blood glucose levels, poorly regulated
        response to glucose tolerance tests, or poorly
 5      regulated of food intake.
   14.  A peptide for use as a medicament as claimed in claim
         11 or claim 12, wherein the peptide is for
        administration in conjunction with treatment with
10      metformin or another insulin sensitizer.
                        KeyBioscience AG
       Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                42

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                            11268579_1
<removed-date>
                                    SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110> Key Bi os c i enc e AG
              <120> Cal c i t oni n Mi met i c s f or Tr eat i ng Di s eas es and Di s or der s
              <130> PJ S/ P18961WO
              <150>   GB1320112. 4
              <151>   2013- 11- 14
              <150>   GB1414706. 0
              <151>   2014- 08- 19
<removed-apn>
              <160> 80
              <170> Bi SSAP 1. 2
              <210>   1
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Sal mo s p.
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 1
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                     15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As n Thr Gl y Ser Gl y Thr Pr o
                            20                      25                    30
              <210>   2
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Angui l l a s p.
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 2
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a Gl y Thr Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   3
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Gal l us s p.
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n
              <220>
                                                               Page 1

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 3
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a Gl y Thr Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
<removed-apn>
              <210>   4
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 1
              <223> Ac et y l at i on
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 4
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   5
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <400> 5
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   6
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                          Page 2

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
<removed-apn>
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <400> 6
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   7
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <400> 7
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   8
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
                                                         Page 3

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <222> 21
              <223> Thr or Ser
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 32
              <223> Pr o or Ty r
              <400> 8
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
<removed-apn>
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   9
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 1
              <223> Ac et y l at i on
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 9
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   10
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 1
              <223> Ac et y l at i on
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 10
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
                                                         Page 4

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   11
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 1
              <223> Ac et y l at i on
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 11
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   12
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 1
              <223> Ac et y l at i on
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 12
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   13
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Mus s p.
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 13
              Cy s Gl y As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Thr Ty r Thr Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                    10                     15
                                                       Page 5

                                                      11268579_1
<removed-date>
              As n Ly s Phe Hi s Thr Phe Pr o Gl n Thr Ser I l e Gl y Val Gl u Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   14
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Rat t us s p.
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t i oni n
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 14
              Cy s Gl y As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Thr Ty r Thr Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              As n Ly s Phe Hi s Thr Phe Pr o Gl n Thr Ser I l e Gl y Val Gl y Al a Pr o
                             20                    25                     30
              <210>   15
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Equus s p.
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 15
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Thr Ty r Thr Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                       15
              As n Ly s Phe Hi s Thr Phe Pr o Gl n Thr Al a I l e Gl y Val Gl y Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                      30
              <210>   16
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Cani s s p.
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n v ar i ant 1
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 16
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Thr Ty r Ser Ly s As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              As n As n Phe Hi s Thr Phe Ser Gl y I l e Gl y Phe Gl y Al a Gl u Thr Pr o
                            20                    25                       30
                                                          Page 6

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   17
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Cani s s p.
              <220>
              <223> Var i ant 2
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
<removed-apn>
              <400> 17
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Thr Ty r Thr Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                       15
              As n Ly s Phe Hi s Thr Phe Pr o Gl n Thr Al a I l e Gl y Val Gl y Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                      30
              <210>   18
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Sus s p.
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 18
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Ser Al a Ty r Tr p Ar g As n Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              As n As n Phe Hi s Ar g Phe Ser Gl y Met Gl y Phe Gl y Pr o Gl u Thr Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   19
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 19
              Cy s Gl y As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Thr Ty r Thr Gl n As p Phe
              1                  5                     10                       15
              As n Ly s Phe Hi s Thr Phe Pr o Gl n Thr Al a I l e Gl y Val Gl y Al a Pr o
                             20                    25                      30
              <210>   20
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                          Page 7

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 20
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   21
<removed-apn>
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 21
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   22
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 22
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   23
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 23
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   24
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 24
                                                         Page 8

                                                      11268579_1
<removed-date>
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   25
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 25
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   26
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 26
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   27
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 27
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   28
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 28
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
                                                        Page 9

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   29
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 29
<removed-apn>
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   30
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 30
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   31
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 31
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   32
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 32
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210> 33
                                                         Page 10

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <211> 32
              <212> PRT
              <213> Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 33
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
<removed-apn>
              <210>   34
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 34
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   35
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 35
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   36
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 36
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   37
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                         Page 11

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 37
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   38
<removed-apn>
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 38
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   39
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 39
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   40
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 40
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   41
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 41
                                                         Page 12

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   42
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 42
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   43
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 43
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   44
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 1
              <223> Ac et y l at i on
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 44
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210> 45
              <211> 32
              <212> PRT
                                                         Page 13

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <213> Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
<removed-apn>
              <222> 22
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <400> 45
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   46
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <400> 46
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   47
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <400> 47
                                                         Page 14

                                                      11268579_1
<removed-date>
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   48
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <400> 48
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   49
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <400> 49
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   50
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
                                                         Page 15

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <400> 50
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
<removed-apn>
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Ty r
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   51
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <400> 51
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   52
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> c al c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> Xaa i s As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Xaa i s Phe or Ty r
              <400> 52
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
                                                         Page 16

                                                     11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   53
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 8
<removed-apn>
              <223> Val or Met
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 11
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 18
              <223> Ly s or Ar g
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 21
              <223> Ser or Thr
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Phe or Ty r
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 24
              <223> Ly s or Ar g
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 32
              <223> Pr o or Ty r
              <400> 53
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Xaa Leu Gl y Xaa Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                 5                    10                      15
              Hi s Xaa Leu Gl n Xaa Xaa Pr o Xaa Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Xaa
                            20                   25                     30
              <210>   54
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> As p or Gl u
                                                       Page 17

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Phe or Ty r
              <400> 54
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
<removed-apn>
              <210>   55
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Phe or Ty r
              <400> 55
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   56
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Phy or Ty r
              <400> 56
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210> 57
              <211> 32
                                                         Page 18

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <212> PRT
              <213> Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> As p or Gl u
              <220>
<removed-apn>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Phe or Ty r
              <400> 57
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   58
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Phe or Ty r
              <400> 58
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Ser Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   59
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 15
              <223> As p or Gl u
              <220>
              <221> SI TE
              <222> 22
              <223> Phe or Ty r
                                                         Page 19

                                                      11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <400> 59
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Xaa Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Xaa Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   60
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 60
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Ser Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   61
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 61
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Ser Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   62
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 62
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Ser Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   63
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 63
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Ser Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                                                        Page 20

                                                         11268579_1
<removed-date>
                              20                    25                     30
              <210>   64
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
<removed-apn>
              <400> 64
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Ser Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   65
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 65
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Ser Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   66
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 66
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Ser Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   67
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c s
              <400> 67
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Ser Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
                                                          Page 21

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <210>   68
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 68
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Ser Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
<removed-apn>
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   69
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 69
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Ser Phe Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   70
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 70
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Ser Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   71
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 71
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Ser Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   72
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
                                                         Page 22

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 72
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Ser Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
<removed-apn>
              <210>   73
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 73
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Thr Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Ser Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   74
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 74
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Ser Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   75
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 75
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Ser Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   76
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
                                                         Page 23

                                                       11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <400> 76
              Cy s Ser As n Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ar g Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   77
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <400> 77
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Met Leu Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ar g Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   78
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 1
              <223> Ac et y l at i on
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 78
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Ser Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
              <210>   79
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 1
              <223> Ac et y l at i on
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
                                                         Page 24

                                                      11268579_1
<removed-date>
              <400> 79
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n Gl u Leu
              1                  5                     10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Phe Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                     25                     30
              <210>   80
              <211>   32
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
<removed-apn>
              <220>
              <223> Cal c i t oni n mi met i c
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 1
              <223> Ac et y l y at i on
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> 32
              <223> Ami dat i on
              <400> 80
              Cy s Al a Ser Leu Ser Thr Cy s Val Leu Gl y Ly s Leu Ser Gl n As p Leu
              1                  5                      10                      15
              Hi s Ly s Leu Gl n Thr Ty r Pr o Ly s Thr As p Val Gl y Al a As n Al a Pr o
                            20                      25                     30
                                                         Page 25

