                                          ABSTRACT
                  The invention relates to a device for grounding an overhead line of a
segment of rail track. According to one aspect of the invention, the device comprises
a first electrical conductor, which is configured for connecting electrically to the
overhead line of the segment of rail track, a second electrical conductor, which is
configured for connecting electrically to ground and/or a return line of the segment of
rail track, a switch, which is configured to enable and disable a connection between
the first and second electrical conductors, control means, which are configured to
activate and deactivate the switch; and communication means, which are configured
for wireless communication with a remote communication device, for receiving a
control signal from the remote communication device and for accordingly actuating the
control means for activating and deactivating the switch, or for blocking the switch,
wherein the communication means are configured for communication over a public
telecommunication network.

                    1/1
   10
           22         21         12
      11
31 J
         32
 30
                         88         1
                             <51
                          42
              40
             52  Fig. 1

                                                   1
   Title:              Device for the remote deactivation of an overhead line
                       Description
                       The invention relates to a device for the remote deactivation of an
 5 overhead line of part of a railway network.
                       The Dutch railway network as well as railway networks in other
   countries consist of numerous sections of line and rail yards with multiple tracks.
   Regular maintenance must be performed on this extensive rail network, which carries
   many passengers.
10                     To ensure the safety of the people who work on the railway, also
   known as maintenance workers or track workers, or rail workers for short, a particular
   section of the track is often taken out of service or secured. A single segment, multiple
   segments or an entire section or block of track may be taken out of service at the same
   time.
15                     An existing method that has already long been in use to take a track
   out of service is that of short-circuiting the two rails within a so-called low-frequency
   track circuit. In this way, each segment of the track in question has a power supply
   that is connected to a relay through the rails of the track. In an idle state, when no train
   is present, the voltage between the rails keeps the relay "on". When a train enters the
20 segment, the axles of the train briefly cause a short circuit between the two rails, as a
   result of which the relay is deactivated and the relevant signal turns red.
                       In addition to track circuit systems, other systems are also used to
   take part of the track out of service and to prevent a train from entering that part of the
   track. The applicant of the present invention therefore provides a device with which
25 those parts (segments) of the track may be removed from service remotely, both by
   short-circuiting the rails in a part of the track protected by a track circuit system and
   also by engaging directly with the train safety systems and requesting deactivation in
   this location, for example by generating/simulating a red signal.
                       When a part of the track is taken out of service, trains are prohibited
30 from entering that part of the track. In this way, the safety of railway workers performing
   on-site work (such as regular maintenance work) is regulated with respect to
   approaching trains.
                       Nevertheless, the part of the track that has been taken out of service
   is actually still operational, and so a train could enter the section or segment and ignore

                                                   2
   the track closure, which is technically possible in principle. For instance, if a track is
   deactivated without further measures being taken, the overhead line remains live. To
   protect the railway workers and keep them safe from possible accidents due to
   electrified components, among other considerations, these components are preferably
 5 de-energised before the work is carried out.
                      In order to prevent the undesirable situation of an un-electrified
   overhead line being inadvertently re-energised, this overhead line is usually grounded
   or short-circuited with the return conductor of the circuit before the work commences
   and after having been de-energised. In practice, with trains, this is normally one of the
10 two rails.
                     Thus, it is known to electrically connect the unpowered overhead line
   to one of the rails with the aid of a long short-circuit lance prior to performing the work.
   In the context of the invention, mention is made of a short-circuit lance, which is often
   also referred to as an grounding lance or grounding device.
15                   Various disadvantages are associated with the use of this currently
   known short-circuit lance. For example, the overhead line may not yet have been de
   energised at the moment when the railroad worker or safety employee wishes to install
   the lance. This can pose a safety risk. Currently known short-circuit lances also have
   the disadvantage that the work (the short-circuiting) is to be performed in an
20 environment that is not yet secure, since the overhead line has not yet been grounded
   or short-circuited. This also poses a safety risk. A further disadvantage is that currently
   known short-circuit lances provide little or no information about the status of the short
   circuit. Some short-circuit lances or short-circuit devices are provided with a test
   circuit, by means of which the short-circuit lance may perform a self-test to determine
25 whether the lance is working properly. Occasionally, the lance may also be equipped
   with a test circuit to test the short circuit. It is usually impossible or nearly impossible
   to determine whether or not the lance has been provided with test circuits of this kind
   or whether the short circuit has been suspended for some reason. All in all, currently
   known short-circuit lances of this type are associated with numerous disadvantages
30 that affect not only safety but also the net amount of time the contractor spends
   working on the track.
                     There is therefore a need to perform better, safer, faster and more
   efficient work on the track. More specifically, there is a need to provide means that
   permit this (at least in part) or that are better in this regard than currently known

                                                 3
   solutions. Even more in particular, there is a need to provide means for deactivating
   an overhead line in a safe, robust and flexible manner, thus increasing the net working
   time of the contractor on the track.
                      In light of the ever-increasing density of the rail network and the rise
 5 in the use of the railway network, the need for rail components that are more reliable,
   less susceptible to failure, more flexible and maintenance-friendly continues to grow.
                      The invention seeks to meet the aforementioned need. It is therefore
   an object of the invention to provide an improved device for short-circuiting an
   overhead train line.
10                    A further object of the invention is to providean improved device for
   short-circuiting an overhead train line that does not have any of the aforementioned
   disadvantages of currently known short-circuit lances for overhead lines.
                      Another object of the invention is to provide an improved device for
   short-circuiting an overhead train line that exhibits at least one of the characteristics
15 more robust, more reliable, less susceptible to failure, safer, more flexible or more
   maintenance-friendly than currently known short-circuit lances for overhead lines and
   that preferably ensures more net working time on the track for the contractor.
                      In a first aspect of the invention, the aforementioned object is
   achieved by a device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track, said
20 device comprising:
                      a first electrical conductor, which is configured for connecting
   electrically to the overhead line of the segment of rail track;
                      a second electrical conductor, which is configured for connecting
   electrically to ground and/or a return line of the segment of rail track;
25 -                  a switch, which is configured to enable and disable a connection
   between the first and second electrical conductors;
                      control means, which are configured to activate and deactivate the
   switch; and
                      communication      means,     which   are    configured    for   wireless
30 communication with a remote communication device, for receiving a control signal from
   the remote communication device and for accordingly actuating the control means for
   activating and deactivating the switch, and/or for blocking the switch, wherein the
   communication        means      are  configured   for  communication       over   a   public
   telecommunication network.

                                                  4
                       As was mentioned previously, the railway network is utilised more and
   more intensively, and the density of the rail network is constantly increasing. Single
   track sections are expanded to multiple-track sections, new routes are established and
   new villages and cities are made accessible.
 5                     Track sections are rail segments between two, often relatively large,
   stations. These track sections may consist of one track but usually comprise multiple
   tracks. When there are multiple tracks, also known as a multi-track railway, trains
   travelling in opposite directions occupy their own track, e.g. in the case of a double
   track. This is in contrast to a single track, where trains are forced to use the same
10 track in both directions.
                       Apart from single and double tracks, there are also track sections in
   which three or occasionally four tracks run parallel to each other; at least in the
   Netherlands, six-track sections also exist in some areas. The track sections can be
   sub-divided into so-called blocks in accordance with the block system. Only one rail
15 vehicle is allowed to be present in each block, and a section of track normally consists
   of several interconnected blocks, but in principle a short track section may also contain
   a single block.
                       An overhead line is a part of the electrical installation of the rail
   infrastructure that is used to electrically power the vehicles on the track, namely the
20 trains. The overhead line is the voltage-conducting part here, and one of the rails of
   the rail line is often used as a return line. Alternatively, the electrical installation may
   also include a third or fourth rail to conduct the voltage. This approach is not
   recommended for safety reasons, however, and is therefore not widely used.
                       The voltage between the return line and the overhead line (or another
25 live line, such as the third or fourth rail) is usually either 700 volts, 1,500 volts, 3,000
   volts or even 25,000 volts. This may be direct current (DC) or alternating current (AC).
   When the return line is provided in the form of rails, it is usually insulated from ground,
   and the voltage difference between the return line and the ground can be as much as
   several hundred volts.
30                     The track sections are usually electrically separated from each other,
   i.e. electrically insulated. Therefore, short-circuiting a voltage-conducting component
   with a return line by no means ensures that a track can be assumed to be electrically
   safe for work to be performed. According to the prior art, when an area where work is
   to be carried out includes a plurality of track sections, each track section must be

                                                 5
   disconnected separately (de-energised). For each individual track section, the voltage
   conducting line has to be short-circuited with the return line in at least one place within
   the track section. In this way, the voltage-conducting line, e.g. the overhead line, is
   prevented from short-circuiting with the return line and potentially with the ground if it
 5 is still live for any reason. The present invention currently makes reference to the short
   circuiting of the voltage-conducting line. This refers to the short-circuiting of the
   voltage-conducting line with the return line and/or with the ground.
                        A known means for short-circuiting a voltage-conducting line with the
   return line is a short-circuit lance (also called short-circuiting or grounding device).
10 This can be installed on-site between the two lines by a track worker.
                        Various disadvantages are associated with the use of this currently
   known short-circuit lance. For example, the overhead line may not yet have been de
   energised at the moment when the railroad worker or safety employee wishes to install
   the lance, which may pose a safety risk. Currently known short-circuit lances also have
15 the disadvantage that the work (the short-circuiting) is to be performed in an
   environment that is not yet secure, since the overhead line may not yet have been
   grounded or short-circuited. This constitutes a safety risk. Moreover, it reduces the net
   working time available for carrying out the work; in other words, it increases the gross
   working time. A further disadvantage is that currently known short-circuit lances
20 provide little or no information about the status of the short circuit. If the short-circuit
   has been suspended for some reason, it is usually impossible or nearly impossible to
   determine this.
                        The device according to a first aspect of the invention does not have
   these disadvantages and is configured to ground or short-circuit an overhead line of a
25 segment of rail track or a track section. The device comprises a first and a second
   electrical conductor. The first conductor is configured to establish an electrical
   connection with the overhead line of the segment of rail track or the track section. The
   second electrical conductor is configured to establish an electrical connection with the
   ground and/or a return line of the segment of rail track or the track section.
30                      The device further comprises a switch, which is configured to enable
   and disable, i.e. deactivate, a connection between the first and second electrical
   conductor and control means. The switch may additionally be configured such that it
   can be blocked. The control means are configured to activate and deactivate the switch
   and/or to block it. The device is further characterized by the fact that it comprises

                                                6
   communication means that are designed for wireless communication with a remote
   communication device, for receiving a control signal from the remote communication
   device and for correspondingly actuating the control means to activate and deactivate
   the switch, respectively, and/or to block it, wherein the communication means are
 5 configured for communication over a public telecommunication network.
                     The device is thus capable of connecting the voltage-conducting line
   to the return line and/or to the ground and of discontinuing this connection or of
   blocking or preventing this connection or disconnection based on a command sent
   from a remote location, such as by the foreman (on-site or at a distance from the track)
10 who is responsible for the work in/for the un-electrified part of the track. This command
   may be sent wirelessly, e.g. by telephone, tablet or dedicated control device.
                     The device according to the invention is at least capable of blocking
   the remote activation or deactivation of the overhead line. This means that a person,
   in this case the on-site foreman or work manager, can ensure that the overhead line
15 can be activated and/or deactivated only if said person lifts the block on the circuit. If
   the block instituted by the foreman is active, then the line cannot be switched on
   remotely by another party. This is possible only once the foreman removes the block.
   In this way, a system of giving and taking is created. This means that a command to
   perform activities locally can be prepared centrally by a control centre, such as the
20 Operational Control Centre Infra (giving). This command results in the deactivation of
   the live overhead line. The contractor or foreman present on-site ensures that it
   accepts (taking) the command and blocks the deactivation of the overhead line. This
   block prevents the foreman and his/her colleagues (track workers) from ever being
   able to work in a section of track where the overhead line can be live, for instance
25 because the control centre has inadvertently switched on the overhead line or
   rendered it live again. In fact, the switch can be actuated only with the coordinated
   control of both an on-site manager (the foreman) and a person responsible centrally
   (the control centre employee or other employee fulfilling this role). This principle of
   giving and taking can therefore also be carried out from the same location, wherein
30 the process is configured wirelessly by the two responsible parties from a remote
   location. In this case, it is also possible for those responsible to be two colleagues
   from the same authority, e.g. neither of whom are present at the control centre but
   both of whom are located at the track site, or one person at the track site and another
   colleague located at some distance from the track.

                                                 7
                     According to the invention, the activation and deactivation may be
   carried out centrally via wire, but it may also occur wirelessly, with the control
   preferably being exercised wirelessly on-site. This may be effected by means of a
   public telecommunication network, such as a 3G, 4G (data) network.
 5                   This is significantly different from known short-circuiting means.
   Those have to be installed on-site at a location that has not yet been rendered
   completely safe prior to the installation. The present device can already be installed in
   advance and can thus be activated remotely. Accordingly, a rail worker does not have
   to enter the track until a time when safety has been ensured. The net working time of
10 the railway worker(s) is thereby increased. On the other hand, the time during which
   the system is out of service can be reduced, while the working time of the railway
   worker(s) remains the same.
                      Since the communication means are configured for communication
   over a public telecommunication network, and since public telecommunication
15 networks of this type ensure good coverage, stability and speed, communication
   between a person wishing to establish the short circuit and the device on site is robust.
   Moreover, this type of communication via a public telecommunication network makes
   it possible to communicate with the device from any remote location. All that is required
   is a connection to the remote communication device. In particular, a remote
20 communication device refers to a server. This may be a server that is incorporated
   into one of the locations that form part of the track, such as a rail house or central
   command post. Preferably, however, it is a location in a data centre. The server may
   be a single server but also a plurality of servers in a cluster, or else one or more
   physical servers and/or one or more virtual servers. A person skilled in the art will
25 understand     that   multiple  possibilities exist for  embodiments    of the     remote
   communication device.
                      In one example, the communication means are configured for
   wireless and wired communication with a remote, preferably wireless, communication
   device for use near the overhead line that is to be grounded and for communication
30 with the communication device of a central control centre.
                     The communication means are preferably provided with hardware to
   communicate with external communication devices both in a wireless and in a wired
   manner     . These     external   communication     devices  may   be   locally   present
   communication devices, such as a dedicated handheld device or a universal tablet,

                                                 8
   smartphone, laptop or other mobile communication means that is provided with a
   software application to communicate with the communication means of the grounding
   device.    These   external   communication     devices may    also be   one    or  more
   communication devices of a central control centre, or more specifically an operational
 5 control centre for infrastructure. This is preferably wired communication but it can also
   be carried out wirelessly. More preferably, the communication            is carried   out
   redundantly via wired and/or wireless redundant communication means.
                     In one example, the communication means are configured to receive
   a control signal from the communication device of the central control centre and to
10 correspondingly actuate the control means only to enable and disable the switch, as
   well as to receive a control signal from the remote communication device and
   correspondingly actuate the control means only to block the enabling and disabling of
   the switch.
                     Preferably, the control signals from the remote communication
15 device, which is located near the overhead line that is to be grounded, are not identical
   to the control signals originating from the communication device of the central control
   centre. Centrally, the switch can be switched only to an on and off position, but locally
   the switch can be locked or blocked, thereby preventing the switch from being switched
   on or off.
20                   In one example, the communication means are configured for wired
   communication, but preferably for wireless communication with the communication
   means of a central control centre. The communication means are further configured
   for wired communication,       but preferably for wireless communication with the
   communication means of the remote communication device, for example a tablet used
25 by managers at the track. According to the invention, the central control centre may
   be a physical central control centre in which, for instance, overhead lines can be
   switched, faults are reported and assignments for contractors are prepared. In
   particular, this may be so-called central or local Switching and Reporting Centres
   (SMC) in the Netherlands, or a central national Operational Control Centre for
30 Infrastructure (OBI). However, the invention is not limited to this arrangement.
   According to the invention, the central control centre may thus also be understood in
   such a way that the communication means communicate (by wire, but preferably
   wirelessly) with a communication device of a person present at the track, or of a

                                                9
   colleague at another location, who is not physically present at the central control or in
   the control centre.
                     In one example, the switch has three positions, wherein the first
   position corresponds to interrupting a connection between the first and second
 5 electrical conductors, the second position corresponds to preparing to activate a
   connection between the first and second electrical conductors, and the third position
   corresponds to actually activating the connection between the first and second
   electrical conductors.
                     A practical embodiment comprises a switch with three positions.
10 Position one indicates that the grounding is deactivated; position three indicates that
   the grounding is activated; and position two prevents or blocks the transition between
   position one and position three.
                     In one example, the communication means are configured to actuate
   the control means so as to turn the switch between the first and the second positions
15 in response to a control signal received by the communication means from the central
   control centre, and to actuate the control means so as to turn the switch between the
   second and the third positions in response to a control signal received wirelessly by
   the communication means from the wireless communication device for use near the
   overhead line that is to be grounded.
20                   With the aid of the switch according to the example, a control signal
   is required from both the on-site railway worker(s) and from the central control
   employee (an employee of the operational control centre for infrastructure, for
   example). Only once both control signals have been received is the grounding
   activated or deactivated. Because the switch has three positions, it is possible for the
25 central control employee to prepare or set up an activation or deactivation, but only
   after the release by the on-site track worker can it actually be performed (the activation
   or deactivation itself). This ensures an extremely safe workplace for the railway
   worker(s), reduces the risk of incorrect or undesired activation or deactivation of the
   grounding and increases the net working time of the railway worker(s).
30                   In the examples described in the present application, the grounding
   of the overhead line is often discussed by way of example. As was indicated earlier,
   this is not intended to be an exhaustive explanation. In all examples, grounding is
   understood to mean the actually electrically connecting with the ground, but this can
   also or alternatively refer to connecting to a return line of the segment of the rail track.

                                               10
                     In  one example, the device for grounding           an overhead    line
   additionally includes monitoring means configured to monitor the electrical connection
   between the first and second conductors and to emit an alarm signal to the control
   means when an active electrical connection is interrupted.
 5                   Optionally,   the device   also comprises    verification  means for
   determining whether the short circuit of the voltage-conducting (overhead) line with
   the return line has been achieved in a satisfactory manner. If this is not the case, and
   if low resistance between the two lines cannot be detected, for example, then an alarm
   signal is transmitted to the control means, which communicates this fact locally and/or
10 remotely to the server.
                     In one example, the device for the grounding of an overhead line also
   has a battery, which is configured to power the device.
                     The device preferably has one or more built-in batteries. These may
   be lithium-ion or lithium-ion-polymer batteries, for example. In one embodiment, the
15 battery may be used to power the communication unit so that it is not dependent on
   an external power supply from a signal box or the like. It may also be a power supply
   serving as an auxiliary power supply if the primary power supply from another source
   is no longer available, such as from a signal box or a switch box next to the track. The
   power supply provides electricity to at least the communication means/unit, but
20 preferably to all parts of the device.
                     In one example, the device for grounding an overhead line further
   comprises a charging unit that is configured to charge the battery, wherein said
   charging unit is preferably configured to be connected to an external solar panel in
   order to charge the battery with sunlight.
25                   Providing the device with a charging unit allows the battery to be
   charged continuously. Preferably, the charging unit also has an external solar panel,
   which makes it possible to charge the device without external power provided from a
   fixed network connection.
                     In  one example, the device for grounding           an overhead    line
30 additionally comprises a charging unit, which is configured to be connected with an
   external solar panel to charge the battery with sunlight, and in which the housing of
   the device also includes an integrated solar panel that is connected with the charging
   unit.

                                               11
                     Integrating the solar panel into the housing of the device produces a
   completely independent unit that no longer requires external power. Alternatively, the
   solar panel may also be replaced by or additionally provided with other forms of
   sustainable power supply. An example thereof is an energy-generating device that
 5 converts kinetic energy from the movement of the track into electrical energy and
   transforms this into a voltage suitable for charging the battery. Other possibilities in
   which magnetic induction is converted into electrical energy by a passing train, for
   example, are also suitable for charging the battery.
                     In one example, the communication           means of the device for
10 grounding an overhead line are configured for wireless cellular communication over a
   cellular mobile network, in particular a 2G GSM, 2.5G GPRS or EDGE, 3G UMTS,
   HSDPA or LTE, 4G LTE Advanced, GSM-R or FRMCS network.
                     The wireless communication preferably takes place over a cellular
   mobile network. This may be a conventional UMTS, LTE or LTE Advanced network,
15 but may also be a rail-specific network such as GSM-R or the future FRMCS network
   or a similar network.
                     In one example, the communication means of the device for
   grounding an overhead line are implemented redundantly and are configured to
   establish at least two simultaneous wireless connections to the remote communication
20 device. In particular, the at least two simultaneous wireless connections are
   established over different cellular mobile networks.
                     In the interest of reliability and operational safety, the wireless
   communication unit is configured to establish a redundant connection. This preferably
   occurs simultaneously via different networks, preferably via two separate commercial
25 telecommunication networks. This guarantees that control signals as well as
   commands for activating the switching means to impose or suspend the short circuit
   are received effectively and can be carried out this at all times.
                     The invention will be described in greater detail on the basis of a
   figure, in which:
30                   Figure 1 shows a device according to an aspect of the invention.
                     Figure 1 shows a schematic view of an embodiment of the device 30
   according to the invention illustrated within an element of rail infrastructure 10.
                     The device 30 makes it possible to short-circuit an overhead line 12
   of a segment of a rail track (for example, a section of track or several sections of track)

                                                12
   with the return line 11. In the example shown, the return line is one of the rails. In
   practice, for most of the tracks in use, at least in the Netherlands, the overhead line
   12 of the track is the voltage-conducting component and one of the rails 11 is used as
   the return line. Other embodiments are also possible, wherein the voltage-conducting
 5 component is configured as an extra third or fourth rail, for example, which is located
   below rather than above the train 20.
                      The train 20 makes electrical contact with the overhead line 12 by
   means of a so-called current collector 21, 22, also known as a pantograph. The upper
   side of the current collector comprises a slider or sliding contact and usually has a
10 carbon component that ensures a good connection with the overhead line. Said
   component is subject to wear and must be replaced over time.
                      The train 20 makes electrical contact with the return line 11 by means
   of the wheels. In so doing, the train completes the electrical circuit between the
   overhead line 12 and the return line 11.
15                    At times when maintenance is being performed, for example, the live
   overhead line is de-energised, primarily in the interest of safety. This may also be done
   in order to perform a test, for example to check whether an overvoltage protection of
   the overhead line is still functioning satisfactorily. For this purpose, the device
   according to the invention has a first electrical conductor 31, which is configured for
20 connecting electrically to the overhead line 12 of the segment of rail track. The device
   30 also has a second electrical conductor 32, which is configured for connecting
   electrically to the ground and/or a return line 11 of the segment of rail track.
                      The device 30 further comprises a switch or relay or another means
   for electrically connecting the two conductors 31, 32, and it comprises control means
25 that are configured to activate and deactivate the switch.
                      In addition, the device has communication means 30, which are
   configured for wireless communication 41 with a remote communication device 40
   such as a remote server. Thus a control signal or message to actuate the control
   means in the device 30 can be received from the remote communication device 40.
30 The control means of the device 30 can thereby turn the switch on or off.
   Communication 41 between the remote server 40 and the device 30 involves a public
   telecommunication network. With the device 30 according to the invention, it is
   possible to exercise control by means of commands received from the wireless

                                                13
   communication means in the device via every possible means that can communicate
   with the server 40.
                     The power for the device 30 is preferably provided by an internal
   power supply, such as in the form of a battery. In practice, this will usually be a plurality
 5 of batteries, depending upon the capacity required and the reliability required in the
   event that one of the batteries or one of the cells of the batteries fails. The batteries
   are preferably lithium-ion or lithium-ion-polymer batteries, due to their favourable
   weight/capacity ratio and their ability to provide a high peak current.
                     The  battery preferably has the capacity to           power all of the
10 components of the device 30 so that it is completely autonomous. The battery or
   batteries are preferably rechargeable by means of different connectors, e.g. via an
   external power connector, via which the battery can be supplied from the signal box
   or by means of a solar panel (not shown), or any other external power source. This
   may be a separate solar panel or power source connected to a charging unit (not
15 shown). Preferably, however, the solar panel is an integral part of the housing, thereby
   reducing the likelihood of theft and damage.
                     The communication unit in the device 30 preferably communicates via
   a wireless cellular mobile network, such as the 2G GSM, 2.5G GPRS or EDGE, 3G
   UMTS, HSDPA or LTE, 4G LTE Advanced, GSM-R or FRMCS network. There are
20 preferably even multiple connections with the central server 40 at the same time and
   preferably via different networks. This makes the connection particularly robust.
   Moreover, it becomes possible both to reliably enable the operation of the short circuit
   or grounding on-site and/or to check the status thereof, for example by authorising an
   assignment to on-site railway workers, safety employees or other locally present and
25 authorised persons 51. However, these options may also be made available to people
   52 who are not present on-site but remotely monitor the status or who establish,
   authorise and/or release to (on-site) track workers instructions to activate a short
   circuit or grounding.
30

                                                14
   CLAIMS
   1.                 Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track, said
   device comprising:
 5 -                  a first electrical conductor, which is configured for connecting
   electrically to the overhead line of the segment of rail track;
                      a second electrical conductor, which is configured for connecting
   electrically to ground and/or a return line of the segment of rail track;
                      a switch, which is configured to enable and disable a connection
10 between the first and second electrical conductors;
                      control means, which are configured to activate and deactivate the
   switch; and
                      communication     means,     which   are   configured     for   wireless
   communication with a remote communication device, for receiving a control signal from
15 the remote communication device and for accordingly controlling the control means
   for activating and deactivating the switch, or for blocking the switch, wherein the
   communication       means    are    configured   for  communication       over   a   public
   telecommunication network.
   2.                 Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
20 according to Claim 1, wherein the communication means are configured for wireless
   and wired communication with a remote, preferably wireless, communication device
   for use near the overhead line that is to be grounded and for communication with the
   communication device of a central control centre.
   3.                 Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
25 according to Claim 2, wherein the communication means are configured to receive a
   control signal from the communication device of the central control centre and to
   correspondingly actuate the control means only to enable and disable the switch, as
   well as to receive a control signal from the remote communication device and
   correspondingly actuate the control means only to block the enabling and disabling of
30 the switch.
   4.                 Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
   according to Claim 3, wherein the communication means are configured for wired and
   preferably wireless communication with the communication means of the central
   control centre, and wherein the communication means are further configured for wired

                                              15
   and preferably wireless communication with the communication device of the remote
   communication means.
   5.               Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
   according to Claim 3 or 4, wherein the switch has three positions, wherein the first
 5 position corresponds to interrupting a connection between the first and second
   electrical conductors, the second position corresponds to preparing to activate a
   connection between the first and second electrical conductors, and the third position
   corresponds to actually activating the connection between the first and second
   electrical conductors.
10 6.               Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
   according to Claim 5, wherein the communication means are configured to actuate the
   control means so as to turn the switch between the first and the second positions in
   response to a control signal received by the communication means from the central
   control centre, and to actuate the control means so as to turn the switch between the
15 second and the third positions in response to a control signal received wirelessly by
   the communication means from the wireless communication device for use near the
   overhead line that is to be grounded.
   7.               Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
   according to one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
20 -                monitoring means configured to monitor the electrical connection
   between the first and second conductors and to emit an alarm signal to the control
   means when an active electrical connection is interrupted.
   8.               Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
   according to one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
25 -                a battery, which is configured to power the device.
   9.               Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
   according to one of the preceding claims, further comprising:
                    a charging unit that is configured to charge the battery, wherein said
   charging unit is preferably configured to be connected to an external solar panel in
30 order to charge the battery with sunlight.
   10.              Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
   according to Claim 4, further comprising:

                                              16
                    a charging unit, which is configured to be connected with an external
   solar panel to charge the battery with sunlight, and wherein the housing of the device
   also includes an integrated solar panel that is connected with the charging unit.
   11.              Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
 5 according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the communication means are
   configured for wireless cellular communication over a cellular mobile network, in
   particular a 2G GSM, 2.5G GPRS or EDGE, 3G UMTS, HSDPA or LTE, 4G LTE
   Advanced, GSM-R or FRMCS network.
   12.              Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
10 according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the communication means are
   implemented redundantly and are configured to establish at least two simultaneous
   wireless connections to the remote communication device.
   13.              Device for grounding an overhead line of a segment of rail track
   according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least two simultaneous
15 wireless connections are established over different cellular mobile networks.

<removed-date>
                                              <U+260E><U+2706><U+260E>
<removed-apn>
                   <U+271D><U+271E>
                              <U+271F><U+271F>                <U+271F><U+271D>         <U+271D><U+271F>
                                        <U+271F><U+271E>
                        <U+271D><U+271D>
              <U+2720><U+271D>
                             <U+2720><U+271F>
              <U+2720><U+271E>
                                                          <U+261B><U+271D>
                              <U+2721><U+271D>
                                                     <U+2721><U+271F>
                                   <U+2721><U+271E>
                                  <U+261B><U+271F>         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E>

