                            ABSTRACT
   An electric lawn mower contains a chassis and a motor
   attached to the chassis. The chassis contains a battery
 5 receptacle, and a DC circuit attached to the chassis. The
   battery receptacle contains a cavity which receives a
   plurality of batteries. The motor is operatively-connected
   to a cutting blade, so as to rotate the blade to cut the
   grass. The DC circuit operatively-connects the cavity with
10 the motor, and when the batteries are received within the
   cavity, the batteries are operatively-connected to the DC
   circuit.
                                            9910123_1 (GHMatters) P105777.AU.1 24/01/18

                              - 1
                       ELECTRIC LAWN MOWER
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
   The present invention relates to an electric lawn mower.
 5 More specifically, the present invention relates to an
   electric lawn mower having a plurality of batteries.
   BACKGROUND
   Electric lawn mowers are known in the art and may possess
10 a single or multiple batteries, depending on the design
   and specifications of the lawn mower. Electric lawn mowers
   may possess either AC or DC circuits, but those containing
   batteries typically contain a DC circuit so that they may
   run directly off of the battery.
15 Electric lawn mowers which possess a plurality of
   batteries typically either stack them together to save
   space and to make the connections easier and closer
   together, or separate the batteries to far ends of the
   mower so as to more evenly distribute the battery weight
20 around the chassis. However, stacking the batteries
   together tends to increase the overall height of the lawn
   mower as the batteries tend to stick straight up.
   In contrast, when the batteries are distributed around the
   chassis, additional wiring is needed, additional spaces
25 need to be designed into the housing, and/or additional
   waterproof components may need to be provided, all of
   which increases manufacturing complexity and/or cost.
   Accordingly, there remains a need for a lawn mower having
   an electric lawn mower having a battery arrangement which
30 reduces the height and dimensions of the lawn mower. There
   also remains the need for an electric lawn mower having a
                                            9910123_1 (GHMatters) P105777.AU.1 24/01/18

                              - 2
   battery arrangement which is easier to manufacture and/or
   has a lower manufacturing cost.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 5 According to one form, the present invention provides an
   electric lawn mower comprising:
        A.   a chassis comprising:
             i.   a battery receptacle comprising a cavity
   for receiving a plurality of batteries; and
10           ii.  a DC circuit; and
        B. a motor attached to the chassis, the motor
   operatively-connected to a cutting blade,
        wherein the DC circuit operatively-connects the
   cavity with the motor, and when the batteries are received
15 within the cavity the batteries are operatively-connected
   to a DC circuit.
   The present invention relates to an electric lawn mower
   containing a chassis and a motor attached to the chassis.
   The chassis contains a battery receptacle, and a DC
20 circuit attached to the chassis. The battery receptacle
   contains a cavity which receives a plurality of batteries.
   The motor is operatively-connected to a cutting blade, so
   as to rotate the blade to cut the grass. The DC circuit
   operatively-connects the cavity with the motor, and when
25 the batteries are received within the cavity, the
   batteries are operatively-connected to the DC circuit.
   Without intending to be limited by theory it is believed
   that the invention herein possesses one or more advantages
   such as a reduced height as compared to when the battery
30 is stacked, a reduced manufacturing complexity, a reduced
                                            9910123_1 (GHMatters) P105777.AU.1 24/01/18

                              - 3
   manufacturing cost, reduced need for wiring, improved
   battery access, easier battery replacement, etc.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 5 Fig. 1 shows a perspective, partially cut-away view of an
   embodiment of the present invention.
   The figure herein is for illustrative purposes only and is
   not necessarily drawn to scale.
10 DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, all tests herein
   are conducted at standard conditions which include a room
   and testing temperature of 25'C, sea level      (1    atm.)
   pressure, and pH 7, and all measurements are made in
15 metric units. Furthermore, all percentages, ratios, etc.
   herein are by weight, unless specifically indicated
   otherwise.
   An electric lawn mower contains a chassis and a motor
   attached to the chassis. The chassis contains a battery
20 receptacle, and a DC circuit attached to the chassis. The
   battery receptacle contains a cavity which receives a
   plurality of batteries. The motor is operatively connected
   to a cutting blade, so as to rotate the blade to cut the
   grass. The DC circuit operatively-connects the cavity with
25 the motor, and when the batteries are received within the
   cavity, the batteries are operatively-connected to the DC
   circuit.
   The chassis is typically a wheeled chassis;        or a chassis
   having from about 2 to about 6 wheels, or from about 3 to
30 about 5 wheels; or about 4 wheels. The chassis and the
   components attached thereto may be designed to maximize
                                              9910123_1 (GHMatters) P105777.AU.1 24/01/18

                              - 4
   stability and/ or balance during the operation of the
   electric lawn mower. The chassis may be made from
   materials known in the art such as plastic, metal,
   fiberglass, a resin, etc.
 5 The motor is typically a DC motor, but may also be, for
   example, a AC/DC motor, a dual commutator AC/DC motor,
   etc. as desired. The motor, or the motor output, is
   operatively connected to a cutting blade, typically either
   directly or via a shaft, chain, or other connector. As the
10 motor turns, the blade turns, which cuts the grass. The
   cutting blade typically contains from about 2 to about 4
   cutting edges, or about 2 cutting edges, or about 3
   cutting edges, or about 4 cutting edges. Such motors and
   cutting blades are widely known and available to those
15 skilled in the art.
   The chassis herein contains a battery receptacle which is
   typically formed integrally with the chassis. However, the
   battery receptacle may also be formed separately from the
   chassis and then later attached or fixed thereto. The
20 battery receptacle may contain, for example, a removable
   and/or movable cover to prevent grass or other debris from
   fouling the battery receptacle. The battery receptacle
   further contains a cavity for receiving a plurality of
   batteries. The cavity may be a single cavity for receiving
25 a plurality of batteries, or may be sub-divided into a
   plurality of cavities each for receiving one or more
   batteries. In an embodiment herein the number of cavities
   equals the number of batteries. In an embodiment herein
   the cavity is divided into a plurality of step-like
30 cavities. In an embodiment herein the cavity is slanted at
   an angle of from about 150 to about 750;  or from about 200
   to about 600, or from about 250 to about 55      0 from the
   horizontal. Without intending to be limited by theory, it
   is believed that such an angle serves a variety of
35 purposes, such as allowing easier placement of the
                                            9910123_1 (GHMatters) P105777.AU.1 24/01/18

                              - 5
   batteries as they may slide into place down the slope
   fanned by the slanted side of the cavity. Such a benefit
   may be especially useful as batteries can be quite dense
   and heavy, and the area where they are replaced may be
 5 slick and/or slippery.
   In an embodiment herein, the cavity, or the plurality of
   cavities, receives the batteries in a staggered manner. In
   an embodiment herein, a plurality of cavities receive the
   batteries in a staggered manner and the cavities are both
10 parallel and slanted at an angle of from about 150 to
   about 750; or from about 200 to about 600,    or from about
   250 to about 55 0 from the horizontal. Without intending
   to be limited by theoly, it is believed that such an
   arrangement allows the electric lawn mower to receive
15 multiple batteries in a space-efficient manner which
   reduces the overall height of the lawn mower, especially
   as compared to a vertical battely arrangement, or a
   horizontal arrangement where the batteries are stacked
   one-upon-the-other.
20 In an embodiment herein, the battery has a handle, or a
   handle distal from the electrical connection. Without
   intending to be limited by theory, it is believed that
   such a handle may make it easier to hold and carry the
   battery, especially if it is heavy. Furthermore, by having
25 the handle distal from the electrical connection, it is
   believed that the battery may be easily lowered into the
   connection so as to be ready for use.
   In an embodiment herein the plurality of batteries is from
   about 2 batteries to about 10 batteries, or from about 2
30 to about 4 batteries, or about 2 to about 3 batteries, or
   about 2 batteries. Without intending to be limited by
   theory, it is believed that too many batteries becomes too
   much of a hassle for the user to keep track of, recharge,
   etc. It is further believed that too few batteries, or a
35 single battery becomes too heavy, unwieldy, and/or may be
                                            9910123_1 (GHMatters) P105777.AU.1 24/01/18

                              - 6
   too slow to recharge. Alternatively, it is also believed
   that a single large voltage battely can run afoul of
   certain safety regulations in various countries, and
   accordingly a plurality of lower voltage batteries
 5 connected by the DC circuit in series is sometimes
   preferred. Thus in an embodiment herein, the DC circuit
   connects a plurality of batteries in series. Such a design
   increases total voltage.
   In an embodiment herein, the DC circuit connects a
10 plurality of batteries in parallel. Such a design is
   useful when, for example, greater overall battery capacity
   is desired.
   In an embodiment herein each of the plurality of batteries
   is of the same voltage and shape. It is believed that such
15 a design allows the batteries to be easily interchanged in
   the cavity and/or cavities so as to reduce complexity. In
   an embodiment herein, each of the plurality of batteries
   has a voltage of from about 9 volts to about 36 volts, or
   from about 16 volts to about 24 volts, or about 18 volts.
20 In the present invention, the chassis further contains a
   DC circuit which operatively connects the plurality of
   batteries with the motor. In an embodiment herein, the DC
   circuit further includes typical lawn mower circuitry such
   as, but not limited to, controls, safety circuitry, drive
25 and timing circuitry, additional motors for driving one or
   more wheels, etc. More specifically, the cavity or
   cavities that receive the batteries are operatively
   connected to the DC circuit, so that when the plurality of
   batteries are placed within the cavity or cavities, the
30 plurality of batteries connect to and power the DC
   circuit.
   Fig. I shows a perspective, partially cut-away view of an
   embodiment of a lawn mower, 10, of the present invention,
   where a chassis, 100, showing a battery receptacle, 102.
                                            9910123_1 (GHMatters) P105777.AU.1 24/01/18

   The battery receptacle, 102, in Fig. I is formed
   integrally with the chassis, 100. The battery receptacle,
   102, contains two cavities, 104 and 104',     which each
   receive a battery, 106 and 106',   respectively, which
 5 partially overlap each other in a staggered formation.
   When the batteries, 106 and 106',   are placed into and
   received within the cavities, 104 and 104',       then the
   batteries, 104 and 104',   connect to and power the DC
   circuit  (not shown).  More specifically, in Fig. 1, each
10 battery, 106, contains an electrical connection             (not
   shown), at the bottom face of battery end, 108. It is here
   at the electrical connection where the battery, 106,
   connects to and engages the DC circuit.
   In Fig. I, the cavities, 104, are designed such that the
15 cavities, 104, receive the batteries, 106, in an alignment
   wherein the batteries, 106, are both staggered and slanted
   at an angle of about 300 from the horizontal. As can be
   seen, the batteries are arranged in parallel. As noted
   above, it is believed that such a cavity and battery
20 receptacle design reduces the overall height of the lawn
   mower as compared to, for example, if the batteries were
   aligned perpendicular to the horizontal. Also as
   previously noted, such an alignment makes it easier for a
   user to insert the batteries, especially if they are heavy
25 and/or the ground is slippery, such as when it is newly
   cut grass or covered with grass clippings. Furthermore, an
   optional cover   (not shown) may close over the battery
   receptacle, 102, and batteries, 106, so as to reduce or
   prevent fouling of the battery receptacle, 102 with dirt,
30 dust, grass clippings, etc.
   It should be understood that the above only illustrates
   and describes examples whereby the present invention may
   be carried out, and that modifications and/or alterations
   may be made thereto without depailing from the spirit of
35 the invention.
                                              9910123_1 (GHMatters) P105777.AU.1 24/01/18

                              - 8
   It should also be understood that certain features of the
   invention, which are, for clarity, described in the
   context of separate embodiments, may also be provided in
   combination in a single embodiment. Conversely, various
 5 features of the invention which are, for brevity,
   described in the context of a single embodiment, may also
   be provided or separately or in any suitable
   subcombination.
   In the claims which follow and in the preceding
10 description of the invention, except where the context
   requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
15 not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication
   is referred to herein, such reference does not constitute
   an admission that the publication forms a part of the
20 common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any
   other country.
                                            9910123_1 (GHMatters) P105777.AU.1 24/01/18

                              - 9
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.   An electric lawn mower comprising:
        A.   a chassis comprising:
 5           i.   a battery receptacle comprising a cavity
   for receiving a plurality of batteries; and
             ii.  a DC circuit; and
        B. a motor attached to the chassis, the motor
   operatively-connected to a cutting blade,
10      wherein the DC circuit operatively-connects the
   cavity with the motor, and when the batteries are received
   within the cavity the batteries are operatively-connected
   to a DC circuit.
   2.   The electric lawn mower according to claim 1, wherein
15 the plurality of batteries is from 2 to 4 batteries.
   3.   The electric lawn mower according to claim 1 or 2,
   wherein the cavity receives the plurality of batteries in
   a slanted manner.
   4.   The electric lawn mower according to claim 1, 2 or 3,
20 wherein the plurality of batteries are received in the
   cavity in parallel.
   5.   The electric lawn mower according to any one of
   claims 1 to 4, wherein each of the plurality of batteries
   is of the same voltage and same shape.
                                            9910123_1 (GHMatters) P105777.AU.1 24/01/18

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
