                                           ABSTRACT
          The present disclosure relates to sensor systems for electronic ophthalmic
   devices. In certain embodiments, the sensor systems may comprise a first electrode
 5 configured to be selectively overlaid by one or more of an upper eyelid and a lower
   eyelid of a user, a second electrode configured to be selectively overlaid by one or more
   of an upper eyelid and a lower eyelid of a user, and a system controller cooperatively
   associated with the first electrode and the second electrode to receive a capacitance
   measurement therefrom, the system controller configured to determine a position of one
.0 or more of the upper eyelid and the lower eyelid in spatial coordinates based on the
   capacitance measurement received from the first electrode and the second electrode.

                 FIG. 3
             300
        304
    306
      310
                  FIG. 4
                    406
         410                    412
                                408
                             404
                         414
402
                   400

       CAPACITIVE SENSING CIRCUITS AND METHODS FOR DETERMINING EYELID
                                    POSITION USING THE SAME
    BACKGROUND OF THE DISCLOSURE
  5
           1. Field of the Disclosure
           The present disclosure relates to electronic ophthalmic devices, such as
    wearable lenses, including contact lenses, implantable lenses, including intraocular
 .0 lenses (IOLs) and any other type of device comprising optical components, and more
    particularly, to sensors and associated hardware and software for determining eyelid
    position in an individual to activate and control electronic ophthalmic devices.
           2. Discussion of the Related Art
 .5
           Lenses, such as contact lenses and intraocular lenses, currently are utilized to
    correct vision defects such as myopia (nearsightedness), hyperopia (farsightedness),
    presbyopia and astigmatism. However, properly designed lenses incorporating
    additional components may be utilized to enhance vision as well as to correct vision
 .0 defects.
           Conventional contact lenses are polymeric structures with specific shapes to
    correct various vision problems as briefly set forth above. To achieve enhanced
    functionality, various circuits and components have to be integrated into these polymeric
25  structures. For example, control circuits, microprocessors, communication devices,
    power supplies, sensors, actuators, light-emitting diodes, and miniature antennas may
    be integrated into contact lenses via custom-built optoelectronic components to not only
    correct vision, but to enhance vision as well as provide additional functionality as is
    explained herein.
30
                                                  1

            Electronic and/or powered contract lenses may be designed to provide enhanced
    vision via zoom-in and zoom-out capabilities, or simply modify the refractive capabilities
    of the lenses. Electronic and/or powered contact lenses may be designed to enhance
    color and resolution, to display textural information, to translate speech into captions in
  5 real time, to offer visual cues from a navigation system, and to provide image
    processing and internet access. The lenses may be designed to allow the wearer to see
    in low-light conditions. The properly designed electronics and/or arrangement of
    electronics on lenses may allow for projecting an image onto the retina, for example,
    without a variable-focus optic lens, provide novelty image displays and even provide
 .0 wakeup alerts.
            Additionally or alternately, eyelid position, eye gaze, and/or pupil convergence
    may be utilized to control the functionality of a contact lens in certain circumstances.
    When an individual focuses on a near object, for example when reading, his/her pupils
 .5 converge to fix the gaze of both eyes on the same location. This phenomena is based
    on the geometry of the system, a triangle being formed by the two eyes and the area of
    focus, and attention being brought to a specific, nearby object. This effect is used in the
    design of spectacles, stereoscopes, and related instruments to ensure clear and
    comfortable vision when gazing at nearby objects. This effect may also be monitored in
 .0 a clinical setting, for example by recording a user's pupil positions by observing them
    with a camera and performing pattern recognition functions. Pupil convergence could
    also be detected by a similar camera and detection system implemented in spectacle
    lenses. However, such clinical methods may not be suitable for non-clinical settings,
    such as a everyday wear.
25
            Accordingly, there exists a need for a means and method for detecting certain
    physiological functions, such as eyelid position, pupil convergence, and gaze direction,
    and utilizing them to activate and/or control an electronic or powered ophthalmic lens.
30  SUMMARY OF THE DISCLOSURE
                                                    2

           The present disclosure relates to powered ophthalmic devices that comprise an
    electronic system and performs a number of functions, including actuating a variable
    focus optic if included. The electronic system includes one or more batteries or other
    power sources, power management circuitry, one or more sensors, sensor
  5 configurations, control algorithms, circuitry comprising a capacitive sensor, and lens
    driver circuitry.
            In accordance with another aspect, the present disclosure is directed to powered
    ophthalmic lenses. Such lenses comprise a contact lens and an eye gaze tracking
 .0 system incorporated into the contact lens, the eye gaze tracking system including a
    sensor to determine and track eye position, a system controller cooperatively
    associated with the sensor, the system controller configured to determine and track
    gaze direction in spatial coordinates based on information from the sensor output a
    control signal, and at least one actuator configured to receive the output control signal
 .5 and implement a predetermined function.
            In accordance with yet another aspect, the present disclosure is directed to an
    eyelid position sensing system for a powered ophthalmic device. The eyelid position
    sensing system may comprise a first electrode configured to be selectively overlaid by
 .0 one or more of an upper eyelid and a lower eyelid of a user. The eyelid position sensing
    system may comprise a second electrode configured to be selectively overlaid by one or
    more of an upper eyelid and a lower eyelid of a user. The eyelid position sensing
    system may comprise a system controller cooperatively associated with the first
    electrode and the second electrode to receive a capacitance measurement therefrom,
25  the system controller configured to determine a position of one or more of the upper
    eyelid and the lower eyelid in spatial coordinates based on the capacitance
    measurement received from the first electrode and the second electrode.
            In accordance with yet another aspect, the present disclosure is directed to a
30  powered ophthalmic device. The powered ophthalmic device may comprise a lens
    including an optic zone and a peripheral zone. The powered ophthalmic device may
                                                   3

    comprise an eye gaze tracking system incorporated into the peripheral zone of the
    contact lens, the eye gaze tracking system including a capacitive touch sensor to detect
    a capacitance based at least on a position of one or more of an upper eyelid and a
    lower eyelid, a system controller cooperatively associated with the capacitive touch
  5 sensor, the system controller configured to determine gaze direction in spatial
    coordinates based on information received from the sensor, and at least one actuator
    configured to receive the output control signal and implement a predetermined function.
            Eye tracking is the process of determining either or both where an individual is
 .0 looking, point of gaze, or the motion of an eye relative to the head. An individual's gaze
    direction is determined by the orientation of the head and the orientation of the eyes
    and/or configuration of eyelid position. More specifically, the orientation of an
    individual's head determines the overall direction of the gaze while the orientation of the
    individual's eyes determines the exact gaze direction which in turn is limited by the
 .5 orientation of the head. Information of where an individual is gazing provides the ability
    to determine the individual's focus of attention and this information may be utilized in
    any number of disciplines or application, including cognitive science, psychology,
    human-computer interaction, marketing research and medical research. For example,
    eye gaze direction may be utilized as a direct input into a controller or computer to
  o control another action. In other words, simple eye movements may be utilized to control
    the actions of other devices, including highly complex functions. Simple eye movements
    may be utilized in a manner similar to "swipes" which have become common in touch
    screen and smartphone applications, for example, swiping to unlock a device, change
    applications, change pages, zoom in or out and the like. Eye gaze tracking systems are
25  presently utilized to restore communication and functionality to those who are
    paralyzed, for example, using eye movements to operate computers. Eye tracking or
    gaze tracking may also be utilized in any number of commercial applications, for
    example, what individuals are paying attention to when they are watching television,
    browsing websites and the like. The data collected from this tracking may be statistically
30  analyzed to provide evidence of specific visual patterns. Accordingly, information
    garnered from detecting eye or pupil movement may be utilized in a wide range
                                                  4

    applications. There are a number of currently available devices for tracking eye
    movement, including video-based eye trackers, search coils and arrangements for
    generating electrooculograms. Search coils or inductive sensors are devices which
    measure the variations of the surrounding magnetic fields. Essentially, a number of coils
  5 may be imbedded into a contact lens type device and the polarity and amplitude of the
    current generated in the coils varies with the direction and angular displacement of the
    eye. An electrooculogram is generated by a device for the detection of eye movement
    and eye position based on the difference in electrical potential between electrodes
    placed on either side of the eye. All of these devices are not suitable for use with a
 .0 wearable, comfortable electronic ophthalmic lens or powered contact lens. Therefore, in
    accordance with another exemplary embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to a
    powered contact lens comprising a gaze sensor incorporated directly into the contact
    lens.
 .5 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           The foregoing and other features and advantages of the disclosure will be
    apparent from the following, more particular description of preferred embodiments of the
    disclosure, as illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
 '0
    Figure 1 illustrates an exemplary ophthalmic device comprising a sensor system in
    accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure.
    Figure 2 illustrates an exemplary ophthalmic device comprising a sensor system in
25  accordance with some embodiments of the present disclosure.
    Figure 3 is a planar view of an ophthalmic device comprising electronic components,
    including a sensor system and a variable-optic element in accordance with the present
    disclosure.
30
                                                  5

    Figure 4 is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic insert, including a
    combined blink detection and communication system positioned in a powered or
    electronic ophthalmic device in accordance with some embodiments of the present
    disclosure.
  5
    Figure 5A is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
    incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
    present disclosure.
 .o Figure 5B is an enlarged view of the exemplary electronic system of Figure 5A
    Figure 6 is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
    incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
    present disclosure.
 .5
    Figure 7 is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
    incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
    present disclosure.
  o Figure 8 is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
    incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
    present disclosure.
    Figure 9A is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
25  incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
    present disclosure.
    Figure 9B is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
    incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
30  present disclosure.
                                                  6

    Figure 9C is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
    incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
    present disclosure.
  5 Figure 1CA is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
    incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
    present disclosure.
    Figure 1OB is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
 .0 incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
    present disclosure.
    Figure 11 A is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
    incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
 .s present disclosure.
    Figure 11 B is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
    incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
    present disclosure.
 'o
    Figure 11C is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic system
    incorporated into a contact lens for detecting eyelid position in accordance with the
    present disclosure.
25  Figure 12A is a diagrammatic, front perspective representation of the eyes of an
    individual gazing at a distant object.
    Figure 12B is a diagrammatic, top perspective representation of the eyes of Figure 12A.
30  Figure 13A is a diagrammatic, front perspective representation of the eyes of an
    individual gazing at a near object.
                                                  7

    Figure 13B is a diagrammatic, top perspective representation of the eyes of 15 Figure
    13A.
  5 Figure 14 is a diagrammatic representation of two exemplary pupil position and
    convergence sensors having a communication channel for synchronizing operation
    between two eyes in accordance with the present disclosure.
    Figure 15A is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary pupil position and
 .0 convergence detection system incorporated into a contact lens in accordance with the
    present disclosure.
    Figure 15B is an enlarged view of the exemplary pupil position and convergence
    detection system of Figure 15A.
 .5
    Figure 16 is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary plot of the correlation
    between pupil convergence and focal distance.
    Figure 17A is a diagrammatic, front perspective representation of the eyes of an
  o individual gazing to the right.
    Figure 17B is a diagrammatic, top perspective representation of the eyes of Figure 17A.
    Figure 18 is a diagrammatic representation of the geometry associated with various
25  gaze directions in two dimensions in accordance with the present disclosure.
    DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
            Ophthalmic devices may include contact lenses. Conventional contact lenses are
30  polymeric structures with specific shapes to correct various vision problems as briefly
    set forth above. To achieve enhanced functionality, various circuits and components
                                                8

    may be integrated into these polymeric structures. For example, control circuits,
    microprocessors, communication devices, power supplies, sensors, actuators, light
    emitting diodes, and miniature antennas may be integrated into contact lenses via
    custom-built optoelectronic components to not only correct vision, but to enhance vision
  5 as well as provide additional functionality as is explained herein. Electronic and/or
    powered contact lenses may be designed to provide enhanced vision via zoom-in and
    zoom-out capabilities, or simply to modify the refractive capabilities of the lenses.
    Electronic and/or powered contact lenses may be designed to enhance color and
    resolution, to display textural information, to translate speech into captions in real time,
 .o to offer visual cues from a navigation system, and to provide image processing and
    internet access. The lenses may be designed to allow the wearer to see in low light
    conditions. The properly designed electronics and/or arrangement of electronics on
    lenses may allow for projecting an image onto the retina, for example, without a variable
    focus optic lens, provide novelty image displays and even provide wakeup alerts.
 .5 Alternately, or in addition to any of these functions or similar functions, the contact
    lenses may incorporate components for the noninvasive monitoring of the wearer's
    biomarkers and health indicators. For example, sensors built into the lenses may allow
    a diabetic patient to keep tabs on blood sugar levels by analyzing components of the
    tear film without the need for drawing blood. In addition, an appropriately configured
 .0 lens may incorporate sensors for monitoring cholesterol, sodium, and potassium levels,
    as well as other biological markers. This coupled with a wireless data transmitter could
    allow a physician to have almost immediate access to a patient's blood chemistry
    without the need for the patient to waste time getting to a laboratory and having blood
    drawn.
25
            The electronic contact lens of the present disclosure comprises the necessary
    elements to correct and/or enhance the vision of patients with one or more of the above
    described vision defects or otherwise perform a useful ophthalmic function. In addition,
    the electronic contact lens may be utilized simply to enhance normal vision or provide a
30  wide variety of functionality as described above. The electronic contact lens may
    comprise a variable focus optic lens, an assembled front optic embedded into a contact
                                                   9

    lens or just simply embedding electronics without a lens for any suitable functionality.
    The electronic lens of the present disclosure may be incorporated into any number of
    contact lenses as described above. In addition, intraocular lenses may also incorporate
    the various components and functionality described herein. However, for ease of
  5 explanation, the disclosure will focus on an electronic contact lens to correct vision
    defects intended for single-use daily disposability.
            The present disclosure may be employed in a powered ophthalmic lens or
    powered contact lens comprising an electronic system, which actuates a variable-focus
 .0 optic or any other device or devices configured to implement any number of numerous
    functions that may be performed. The electronic system includes one or more batteries
    or other power sources, power management circuitry, one or more sensors, clock
    generation circuitry, control algorithms and circuitry, and lens driver circuitry. The
    complexity of these components may vary depending on the required or desired
 .5 functionality of the lens.
            A sensor, the components of which may be embedded in a powered contact
    lens, may detect characteristics of different eye or eyelid position. For example, various
    signals may include one or more of when an eye is moving up or down, focusing up
 .0 close, and adjusting to a change in ambient light levels, such as from light to dark, dark
    to light or any other light condition. As an example, a capacitive sensor may be
    positioned to detect a position of an eyelid of a user and thereby determine an eye
    gaze. It is important to note that this list of conditions is exemplary and not exhaustive.
    In certain embodiments, ophthalmic devices may comprise one or more sensor
25  systems, such as circuits. The sensor systems may be configured with one or more
    capacitive sensors configured to detect position of an eyelid.
            Figure 1 illustrates, in block diagram form, an ophthalmic device 100 disposed on
    the front surface of the eye or cornea, in accordance with one exemplary embodiment of
30  the present disclosure. Although the ophthalmic device 100 is shown and described as
    a being disposed on the front surface of the eye, it is understood that other
                                                     10

    configurations, such as those including intraocular lens configuration may be used. In
    this exemplary embodiment, the sensor system may comprise one or more of a sensor
    102, a sensor circuit 104, an analog-to-digital converter 106, a digital signal processor
    108, a power source 116, an actuator 118, and a system controller 114. As illustrated,
  5 the ophthalmic device 100 may be disposed adjacent an upper eyelid 110 and a lower
    eyelid 112, such as adjacent the front eye surface or cornea, wherein the electronic
    circuitry of the sensor system or circuit 104 may be utilized to implement the sensing of
    the present disclosure. The sensor 102 as well as the other circuitry is configured to
    sense various electrical characteristics relating to the eye and the surrounding area,
 .0 such as the eyelids 110, 112.
            In this exemplary embodiment, the sensor 102 may be at least partially
    embedded into the ophthalmic device 100. The sensor 102 may be or comprise one or
    more electrodes configured to sense a capacitance and/or a change in capacitance as
 .s the conditions of the eye and/or eyelid change. For example, when various portions of
    the electrodes comprised by the sensor 102 may be in proximity to the eyelids 110, 112,
    as illustrated in FIG. 2 and described below. The sensor 102 may be configured to
    provide a measurable capacitance. As such, when the position of the upper eyelid 110
    and/or the lower eyelid 112, relative to the sensor 102, changes, the measurable
  o capacitance may change. Therefore, various capacitance signals may be used to
    represent positions of the eyelids 110, 112, which may operate as a representation of
    eye position and/or eye gaze.
            The sensor circuit 104 or sensor system may be configured to process signals
25  received by the sensor 102. As an example, the sensor circuit 104 may be configured to
    amplify a signal to facilitate detection of small changes in signal level. As a further
    example, the sensor circuit 104 may be configured to amplify a signal to a useable level
    for the remainder of the system, such as giving a signal enough power to be acquired
    by various components of the sensor circuit 104 and/or the analog-to-digital converter
30  106.
                                                  11

            In this exemplary embodiment, the analog-to-digital converter 106 may be used
    to convert an analog signal output from the amplifier into a digital signal for processing.
    For example, the analog-to-digital converter 106 may convert an analog signal output
    from the sensor circuit 104 into a digital signal that may be useable by subsequent or
  5 downstream circuits, such as a digital signal processing system 108 or microprocessor.
    A digital signal processing system or digital signal processor 108 may be utilized for
    digital signal processing, including one or more of filtering, processing, detecting, and
    otherwise manipulating/processing sampled data to discern a ciliary muscle signal from
    noise and interference. The digital signal processor 108 may be preprogrammed with
 .o the ciliary muscle responses described above. The digital signal processor 108 may be
    implemented utilizing analog circuitry, digital circuitry, software and/or preferably a
    combination thereof.
            A power source 116 supplies power for numerous components comprising the
 .s sensor system. The power may be supplied from a battery, energy harvester, or other
    suitable means as is known to one of ordinary skill in the art. Essentially, any type of
    power source may be utilized to provide reliable power for all other components of the
    system. The system controller 114 may control other aspects of a powered contact lens
    depending on input from the digital signal processor 108, for example, changing the
  o focus or refractive power of an electronically controlled lens through an actuator 118.
    Other functions and operations may be controlled by the system controller 114 based
    on various inputs.
            In further alternate exemplary embodiments, the system controller 114 may
25  receive input from sources including one or more of a contact sensor, a blink detector,
    and a fob control. By way of generalization, it may be obvious to one skilled in the art
    that the method of activating and/or controlling the system controller 114 may require
    the use of one or more activation methods. For example, an electronic or powered
    contact lens may be programmable specific to an individual user, such as programming
30  a lens to recognize both of an individual's ciliary muscle signals when performing
    various actions, for example, focusing on an object far away, or focusing on an object
                                                  12

    that is near, and an individual's blink patterns. In some exemplary embodiments, using
    more than one method to activate an electronic contact lens, such as eyelid position,
    gaze, and blink detection, may give the ability for each method to crosscheck
    with another before activation of the contact lens occurs. An advantage of
  5 crosschecking may include mitigation of false positives, such as minimizing the chance
    of unintentionally triggering a lens to activate.
            Figure 2 illustrates an ophthalmic device 200, comprising a sensor system,
    shown on the front surface of the eye 201 or cornea in accordance with another
 .0 exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. In this exemplary embodiment, the
    sensor system may be similar to the components described and shown in FIG. 1. A
    sensor 202 may be disposed on or in the ophthalmic device 200 and may comprise one
    or more electrodes 203 configured to provide a measurable capacitance. Accordingly,
    as an upper eyelid 210 and/or lower eyelid 212 changes position, the eyelids 210, 212
 .5 may cause a capacitance in the sensor 202 to fluctuate, thereby indicating a position of
    the eyelids 210, 212. As the eyelids 210, 212 move to another position, the capacitance
    at the sensor 202 may change and indicate a new position. As shown in FIG. 2, the
    electrodes 203 may have a generally curvilinear shape and may be configured in a
    generally annular configuration about the eye 201. As shown, the sensor 202 comprises
 .0 four electrodes 203; however, any number of electrodes may be used. As an illustrative
    example, the electrodes 203 may be spaced from each other. As shown, electrode
    203a is disposed between electrode 203b and electrode 203d, opposite electrode 203c.
    Electrode 203b is disposed between electrode 203a and electrode 203c, opposite
    electrode 203d. Electrode 203c is disposed between electrode 203b and electrode
25  203d, opposite electrode 203a. Electrode 203d is disposed between electrode 203a and
    electrode 203c, opposite electrode 203b. Various configurations may be used. As a
    further example, the sensor 202 may comprise two electrodes 203 such as electrodes
    configured in opposite quartile regions of the ophthalmic device 200, such as electrode
    pair 203a and 203c; or electrode pair 203b and 203d. Various configurations of the
30  electrodes 203 may allow detection of various positions of the eyelids 210, 212, even as
    the rotation of the ophthalmic device may change relative to the eyelids 201, 212.
                                                   13

            Referring now to Figure 3, there is illustrated, in planar view, a wearable
    electronic ophthalmic device comprising a sensor in accordance with the present
    disclosure. The ophthalmic device 300 comprises an optic zone 302 and a peripheral
  5 zone 304. The optic zone 302 may function to provide one or more of vision correction,
    vision enhancement, other vision-related functionality, mechanical support, or even a
    void to permit clear vision. In accordance with the present disclosure, the optic zone 302
    may comprise a variable optic element configured to provide enhanced vision at near
    and distant ranges based on signals sensed from the ciliary muscle. The variable-optic
 .o element may comprise any suitable device for changing the focal length of the lens or
    the refractive power of the lens based upon activation signals from the sensing system
    described herein. For example, the variable optic element may be as simple as a piece
    of optical grade plastic incorporated into the lens with the ability to have its spherical
    curvature changed. The peripheral zone 304 comprises one or more of electrical circuits
 .5 306, a power source 308, electrical interconnects 310, mechanical support, as well as
    other functional elements.
            The electrical circuits 306 may comprise one or more integrated circuit die,
    printed electronic circuits, electrical interconnects, and/or any other suitable devices,
  o including the sensing circuitry described herein. The power source 308 may comprise
    one or more of battery, energy harvesting, and or any other suitable energy storage or
    generation devices. It is readily apparent to the skilled artisan that Figure 3 only
    represents one exemplary embodiment of an electronic ophthalmic lens and other
    geometrical arrangements beyond those illustrated may be utilized to optimize area,
25  volume, functionality, runtime, shelf life as well as other design parameters. It is
    important to note that with any type of variable optic, the fail-safe is distance vision. For
    example, if power were to be lost or if the electronics fail, the wearer is left with an optic
    that allows for distance vision.
30          Figure 4 is a diagrammatic representation of an exemplary electronic insert,
    including a combined blink detection and communication system, positioned in a
                                                    14

    powered or electronic ophthalmic device in accordance with the present disclosure. As
    shown, a contact lens 400 comprises a soft plastic portion 402 which comprises an
    electronic insert 404. This insert 404 includes a lens 406 which is activated by the
    electronics, for example, focusing near or far depending on activation. Integrated circuit
  5 408 mounts onto the insert 404 and connects to batteries 410, lens 406, and other
    components as necessary for the system. The integrated circuit 408 includes a sensor
    412 and associated signal path circuits. The sensor 412 may comprise any sensor
    configuration such as those described herein. The sensor 412 may also be
    implemented as a separate device mounted on the insert 404 and connected with wiring
 .0 traces 414.
            Figures 5A and 5B illustrate an alternate exemplary detection system 500
    incorporated into an ophthalmic device 502 such as a contact lens. Figure 5A shows the
    system 500 on the device 502 and Figure 5B shows an exemplary schematic view of
 .5 the system 500. In this exemplary embodiment, capacitive touch sensors 504 may be
    used to sense a capacitance adjacent an eye of the user of the ophthalmic device 502.
    As an example, the capacitive touch sensors 504 may be configured to detect a
    capacitance that may be affected by a position of one or more of an upper eyelid and a
    lower eyelid of the user. As such, the sensed capacitance may be indicative of a
  o position of the eyelid(s) and may represent a gaze or position of the eye. One or more
    of the capacitive touch sensors 504 may be configured as linear sensor 600 (FIG. 6), a
    segmented sensor 700 (FIG. 7), and/or an integrating sensor 800 (FIG. 8) configured to
    integrate a response over a sensor area. In the various configurations illustrated in
    FIGS. 6-8, the sensors 600, 700, 800 may be configured to sense a capacitance due at
25  least in part to a position of an eyelid 610, 710, 810. Additionally, or alternatively, the
    sensors 504 may be configured as a dual wire single capacitive sensor 900 (FIG. 9A)
    and/or a dual wire dual capacitive sensor 902 (FIG. 9B) having a generally curvilinear
    configuration. Additionally, or alternatively, the sensors 504 may be configured as a dual
    wire dual capacitive sensor 904 (FIG. 9C) having a generally straight configuration.
30  Additionally, or alternatively, the sensors 504 may be configured in a generally annular
    configuration such as illustrated in FIG. 2. Any number of sensors may be configured.
                                                   15

    For example, FIG. 1CA illustrates an ophthalmic device 1000 comprising a sensor 1002
    having eight traces or electrodes 1003 configured in a generally annular configuration.
    As a further example, FIG. 1OB illustrates an ophthalmic device 1010 comprising a
    sensor 1012 having two traces or electrodes 1013 configured in a generally annular
  5 configuration, wherein each of the electrodes 1013 have a generally curvilinear shape
    and extend less than half of the circumference of the ophthalmic device 1010.
            Returning to Figures 5A and 5B, the capacitive touch sensors 504 may comprise
    a variable capacitor, which may be implemented in a physical manner such that the
 .o capacitance varies with proximity or touch, for example, by implementing a grid covered
    by a dielectric. Sensor conditioners 506 create an output signal proportional to the
    capacitance, for example, by measuring the change in an oscillator comprising the
    variable capacitor or by sensing the ratio of the variable capacitor to a fixed capacitor
    with a fixed-frequency AC signal. The output of the sensor conditioners 506 may be
 .s combined with a multiplexer 508 to reduce downstream circuitry.
            In certain embodiments, downstream circuitry may include a system controller
    510, which may comprise an analog-to-digital converter (ADC) that may be used to
    convert a continuous, analog signal into a sampled, digital signal appropriate for further
  o signal processing. For example, the ADC may convert an analog signal into a digital
    signal that may be useable by subsequent or downstream circuits, such as a digital
    signal processing system or microprocessor, which may be part of the system controller
    510 circuit. A digital signal processing system or digital signal processor may be utilized
    for digital signal processing, including one or more of filtering, processing, detecting,
25  and otherwise manipulating/processing sampled data. The digital signal processor may
    be preprogrammed with various lid patterns. As an example, a data store of capacitive
    measurements or signatures may be mapped to particular positions of an upper eyelid
    and a lower eyelid. As such, when capacitive measurements matching or near a
    particular signature are detected, the associated eyelid position(s) may be extrapolated.
30  The digital signal processor also comprises associated memory. The digital signal
                                                  16

    processor may be implemented utilizing analog circuitry, digital circuitry, software,
    and/or preferably a combination thereof.
            The system controller 510 receives inputs from the capacitance sensor
  5 conditioner 506 via a multiplexor 508, for example, by activating each sensor 504 in
    order and recording the values. It may then compare measured values to pre
    programmed patterns and historical samples to determine lid position. It may then
    activate a function in an actuator 512, for example, causing a variable-focus lens to
    change to a closer focal distance. The capacitor touch sensors 504 may be laid out in a
 .0 physical pattern similar to that previously described and shown in references to FIGS. 2
    and 6-10, but would be optimized for detecting changes in capacitance with lid position.
    The sensors 504, and/or the whole electronic system, may be encapsulated and
    insulated from the saline contact lens environment. As the eyelid covers a sensor 504,
    the change in capacitance may be detected. Various configurations of the sensors 504
 .5 may facilitate optimal sensing conditions as the ophthalmic device 502 shifts or rotates.
            The system controller 510 is preferably preprogrammed to sample each sensor
    504 on the eye to detect lid position and provide an appropriate output signal to an
    actuator 512. The system controller 510 also comprises associated memory. The
 .0 system controller 510 may combine recent samples of the sensors 504 to
    preprogrammed patterns correlating to lid open and squinting positions. When the
    pattern matches that of lid droop associated with near accommodation, for example, the
    top eyelid drooping, the system controller 510 may trigger the actuator 512 to change
    focus state of a variable power optic associated with the powered contact lens.
25  Recording a user's eyelid patterns under various capacitance and focal distance
    situations may be required to program the system controller 510 for reliable detection.
    The system 500 may need to differentiate between eyelid position changes in various
    conditions. This differentiation may be accomplished through proper selection of the
    sampling frequency, amplifier gain, and other system parameters, optimization of
30  sensors placement in the contact lens, determination of lid position patterns, recording
    capacitance, comparing each sensor 504 to adjacent and all sensors 504, and other
                                                  17

    techniques to discern lid position uniquely. As an illustrative example, FIGS. 11 A- 1C
    illustrate various lid positions as they may overlay traces or electrodes 1103 of a sensor
    1102. As the gaze of a user changes, the eyelid position changes and may overlay
    different portions of the sensor 1102, thereby causing fluctuation in capacitance
  5 measurement taken from one or more of the electrodes 1103. Such fluctuation and/or
    discrete capacitance measurements at sampled times may be mapped to particular
    eyelid positions. As such, when the same capacitance measurements or fluctuations in
    the capacitance are detected, the mapped eyelid position may be determined.
    Additionally, or alternatively, eye gaze may be mapped to particular eyelid position to
 .0 allow gaze to be determined from a capacitance measurement.
             Returning to FIGS. 5A and 5B, a power source 514 supplies power for numerous
    components comprising the lid position sensor system 500. The power source 514 may
    also be utilized to supply power to other devices on the contact lens. The power may be
 .5 supplied from a battery, energy harvester, or other suitable means as is known to one of
    ordinary skill in the art. Essentially, any type of power source 514 may be utilized to
    provide reliable power for all other components of the system. A lid position sensor
    array pattern, processed from analog to digital, may enable activation of the system
    controller 510 or a portion of the system controller 510. Furthermore, the system
 .0 controller 510 may control other aspects of a powered contact lens depending on input
    from the multiplexor 508, for example, changing the focus or refractive power of an
    electronically controlled lens through the actuator 512.
             In one exemplary embodiment, the electronics and electronic interconnections
25  are made in the peripheral zone of a contact lens rather than in the optic zone. In
    accordance with an alternate exemplary embodiment, it is important to note that the
    positioning of the electronics need not be limited to the peripheral zone of the contact
    lens. All of the electronic components described herein may be fabricated utilizing thin
    film technology and/or transparent materials. If these technologies are utilized, the
30  electronic components may be placed in any suitable location as long as they are
    compatible with the optics. The activities of the digital signal processing block and
                                                    18

    system controller (system controller 510 in Figure 5B) depend on the available sensor
    inputs, the environment, and user reactions. The inputs, reactions, and decision
    thresholds may be determined from one or more of ophthalmic research, pre
    programming, training, and adaptive/learning algorithms. For example, the general
  5 characteristics of eyelid movement may be well-documented in literature, applicable to a
    broad population of users, and pre-programmed into system controller. However, an
    individual's deviations from the general expected response may be recorded in a
    training session or part of an adaptive/learning algorithm which continues to refine the
    response in operation of the electronic ophthalmic device. In one exemplary
 .0 embodiment, the user may train the device by activating a handheld fob, which
    communicates with the device, when the user desires near focus. A learning algorithm
    in the device may then reference sensor inputs in memory before and after the fob
    signal to refine internal decision algorithms. This training period could last for one day,
    after which the device would operate autonomously with only sensor inputs and not
 .5 require the fob.
            Figures 11 A, 11 B, and 11C illustrate an ophthalmic device 1100, comprising a
    sensor system, that may be placed adjacent an eye or cornea of a user in accordance
    with another exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure. In this exemplary
 .0 embodiment, the sensor system may be similar to the components described and
    shown in FIG. 1. The sensor 1102 may be disposed on or in the ophthalmic device 1100
    and may comprise one or more electrodes 11 03a-h configured to provide a measurable
    capacitance. Accordingly, as an upper eyelid 1110 and/or lower eyelid 1112 changes
    position, the eyelids 1110, 1112 may cause a capacitance in the sensor 1102 to
25  fluctuate, thereby indicating a position of the eyelids 1110, 1112. As the eyelids 1110,
    1112 move to another position, the capacitance at the sensor 1102 may change and
    indicate a new position. As shown in FIGS. 11 A- 1C, the electrodes 1103 may have a
    generally curvilinear shape and may be configured in a generally annular configuration
    about the ophthalmic device 1100. As shown, the sensor 1102 comprises eight
30  electrodes 11 03a-h; however, any number of electrodes may be used. As an illustrative
    example, the electrodes 11 03a-h may be spaced from each other. As shown, electrode
                                                  19

    11 03a is disposed between electrode 11 03b and electrode 11 03h, opposite electrode
    203e. Electrode 11 03b is disposed between electrode 11 03a and electrode 11 03c,
    opposite electrode 11 03f. Electrode 11 03c is disposed between electrode 11 03b and
    electrode 11 03d, opposite electrode 1103g. Electrode 11 03d is disposed between
  5 electrode 11 03c and electrode 11 03e, opposite electrode 11 03h. Electrode 11 03e is
    disposed between electrode 11 03d and electrode 11 03f, opposite electrode 11 03a.
    Electrode 11 03f is disposed between electrode 11 03e and electrode 11 03g, opposite
    electrode 11 03b. Electrode 11 03g is disposed between electrode 11 03f and electrode
    11 03h, opposite electrode 11 03c. Electrode 11 03h is disposed between electrode
 .0 11 03g and electrode 11 03a, opposite electrode 11 03d. Various configurations may be
    used. As a further example, the sensor 1102 may comprise two electrodes 1103 such
    as electrodes configured in opposite quartile regions of the ophthalmic device 1100,
    such as electrode pair 11 03a and 11 03e; or electrode pair 11 03g and 11 03c. Various
    configurations of the electrodes 11 03a-h may allow detection of various positions of the
 .s eyelids 1110, 1112, even as the rotation of the ophthalmic device may change relative
    to the eyelids 1101, 1112.
            Figures 11 A, 11 B, and 11C illustrate various positions of the eyelids 1110, 1112
    as they may overlay the electrodes 1103 of a sensor 1102. As the gaze of a user
 'o changes, the position of the eyelids 1110, 1112 changes and may overlay different
    portions of the sensor 1102, thereby causing fluctuation in capacitance measurement
    taken from one or more of the electrodes 1103.
           As shown in FIG. 11 A, a gaze angle may be taken as a zero degree down gaze,
25  where the upper eyelid 1110 overlays electrode 11 03a and electrode 11 03h and the
    lower eyelid 1112 overlays none of the electrodes 11 03a-h. As such, the capacitance
    measurement at each of the electrodes 11 03a-h may provide a capacitive sensing
    signature representative of the zero degree down gaze. In particular, electrode 11 03a
    and electrode 11 03h may detect a capacitance measurement indicative of the
30  overlaying upper eyelid 1110. This information may be stored, for example, via a system
    controller 114 (FIG. 1) and may be referenced subsequently. As an example, when a
                                                  20

    subsequent capacitance measurement is found to be the same or similar to the stored
    measurement, the positions of the eyelids 1110, 1112 may be determined. Additionally,
    or alternatively, the eye gaze may be determined. As a further example, the stored
    measurements may represent the activation or deactivation of a particular electrode
  5 1103 have a sensed capacitance over a preset threshold. For example, the stored
    measurements may indicate the for a zero degree down gaze, the electrodes 11 03a,
    1103h will be activated, but the other electrodes 11 03b-1 103g will be deactivated.
    Capacitance measurements may be absolute, binary, actual, and/or conditioned in
    various manners.
 .0
            As shown in FIG. 11 B, a gaze angle may be taken as a twenty-five degree down
    gaze, where the upper eyelid 1110 overlays electrode 11 03a and electrode 11 03h and
    the lower eyelid 1112 overlays electrode 11 03d and electrode 11 03e. As such, the
    capacitance measurement at each of the electrodes 11 03a-h may provide a capacitive
 .5 sensing signature representative of the twenty-five degree down gaze. In particular,
    electrode 11 03a and electrode 11 03h may detect a capacitance measurement
    indicative of the overlaying upper eyelid 1110. Electrode 11 03d and electrode 11 03e
    may detect a capacitance measurement indicative of the overlaying lower eyelid 1112.
    This information may be stored, for example, via a system controller 114 (FIG. 1) and
 .0 may be referenced subsequently. As an example, when a subsequent capacitance
    measurement is found to be the same or similar to the stored measurement, the
    positions of the eyelids 1110, 1112 may be determined. Additionally, or alternatively, the
    eye gaze may be determined. As a further example, the stored measurements may
    represent the activation or deactivation of a particular electrode 1103 have a sensed
25  capacitance over a preset threshold. For example, the stored measurements may
    indicate the for a zero degree down gaze, the electrodes 11 03a, 11 03d, 11 03e, 11 03h
    will be activated, but the other electrodes will be deactivated. Capacitance
    measurements may be absolute, binary, actual, and/or conditioned in various manners.
30          As shown in FIG. 11C, a gaze angle may be taken as a forty-five degree down
    gaze, where the upper eyelid 1110 overlays electrode 11 03a and electrode 11 03h and
                                                 21

    the lower eyelid 1112 overlays electrode 11 03c and electrode 11 03f. As such, the
    capacitance measurement at each of the electrodes 11 03a-h may provide a capacitive
    sensing signature representative of the forty-five degree down gaze. In particular,
    electrode 11 03a and electrode 11 03h may detect a capacitance measurement
  5 indicative of the overlaying upper eyelid 1110. Electrode 11 03c and electrode 11 03f
    may detect a capacitance measurement indicative of the overlaying lower eyelid 1112.
    This information may be stored, for example, via a system controller 114 (FIG. 1) and
    may be referenced subsequently. As an example, when a subsequent capacitance
    measurement is found to be the same or similar to the stored measurement, the
 .0 positions of the eyelids 1110, 1112 may be determined. Additionally, or alternatively, the
    eye gaze may be determined. As a further example, the stored measurements may
    represent the activation or deactivation of a particular electrode 1103 have a sensed
    capacitance over a preset threshold. For example, the stored measurements may
    indicate the for a zero degree down gaze, the electrodes 11 03a, 11 03c, 11 03f, 11 03h
 .5 will be activated, but the other electrodes will be deactivated. Capacitance
    measurements may be absolute, binary, actual, and/or conditioned in various manners.
            Figures 12A and 12B illustrate different views of the two eyes 1200 of an
    individual who is gazing at a distant object which requires far focus, for example, driving
 .0 a car, instead of near focus, for example, reading a book. Figure 12A illustrates a front
    perspective of the eyes 1200, whereas Figure 12B illustrates a top perspective of the
    eyes 1200. While gazing at a distant object, not illustrated, the pupils 1202 are centered
    and track together. Lines 1201 between the pupils 1202 and the object under
    observation are parallel as is shown by angles 1204 both being ninety (90) degrees.
25  This is because the distance between the two eyes 1200 on any individual is much less
    than the distance from the eyes 1200 to the object under observation. As an individual
    tracks the movement of a distant object, although the eyes 1200 move, the angles 1204
    remain very close to ninety (90) degrees, again because the distance between the two
    eyes 1200 is much less than the distance from the eyes 1200 to the object under
30  observation.
                                                 22

             Figures 13A and 13B illustrate a pair of eyes 1300 substantially similar to those
    illustrated in Figures 12A and 12B, with the exception that in this example the object
    under observation, not illustrated, is close or near rather than distant. Since the distance
    between the eyes 1300 is now appreciable relative to the distance from the eyes 1300
  5 to the object under observation, the eyes 1300 converge to keep the object under
    observation within the field of view. As illustrated, via exaggeration, pupils 1302
    converge and move closer together. Lines 1301 drawn between the pupils and the
    object under observation are no longer parallel, and the angles 1304 are less than
    ninety (90) degrees. This phenomena may be easily observed by having a subject first
 .0 focus on his or her finger at an approximate distance of two (2) feet with his or her arm
    fully extended. As the subject brings his or her finger closer, his or her eyes will
    converge towards his or her nose becoming "cross-eyed."
             Figure 14 illustrates a system by which the convergence described with respect
 .5 to Figures 12A, 12B, 13A and 13B may be sensed and communicated between a pair of
    contact lenses 1400. Pupils 1402 are illustrated converged for near object viewing. Pupil
    position and convergence detection systems 1404 incorporated within contact lenses
    1400 that are positioned on eyes 1406 track the position of the pupils 1402 and/or the
    contact lenses 1400, for example, with reverse-facing photodetectors to observe the
 .0 pupils 1402 or with accelerometers to track movement of the eyes 1406 and hence the
    pupils 1402. The pupil position and convergence detector systems 1404 may comprise
    several components forming a more complex system, for example a 3-axis
    accelerometer, signal conditioning circuitry, a controller, memory, power supply, and a
    transceiver as is described in detail subsequently. Communication channel 1401
25  between the two contact lenses 1400 allows the pupil position and convergence
    detection systems 1404 to synchronize on pupil position. Communication may also take
    place with an external device, for example, spectacle glasses or a smartphone.
    Communication between the contact lenses 1400 is important to detect convergence.
    For example, without knowing the position of both pupils 1402, simply gazing down to
30  the left may be detected as convergence by the right eye since the pupil 1402 has
    similar movement for both actions. However, if the right pupil is detected moving down
                                                   23

    to the left while the pupil of the left eye is detected moving down to the right,
    convergence may be construed. Communication between the two contact lenses 1400
    may take the form of absolute or relative position, or may simply be a "convergence
    suspected" signal if the eye moves in the expected direction of convergence. In this
  5 case, if a given contact lens detects convergence itself and receives a convergence
    indication from the adjacent contact lens, it may activate a change in stage, for
    example, switching a variable-focus or variable power optic equipped contact lens to the
    near distance state to support reading. Other information useful for determining the
    desire to accommodate (focus near), for example, lid position and ciliary muscle activity,
 .0 may also be transmitted over the communication channel 1401 if the contact lenses are
    so equipped. It should also be appreciated that communication over the channel 1401
    could comprise other signals sensed, detected, or determined by each lens 1406 and
    15 used for a variety of purposes, including vision correction, vision enhancement,
    entertainment, and novelty.
 .5
            In accordance with one exemplary embodiment, a digital communication system
    comprises a number of elements which when implemented, may take on any number of
    forms. The digital communication system generally comprises an information source, a
    source encoder, a channel encoder, a digital modulator, a channel, a digital
 .0 demodulator, a channel decoder and a source decoder. The information source may
    comprise any device that generates information and/or data that is required by another
    device or system. The source may be analog or digital. If the source is analog, its output
    is converted into a digital signal comprising a binary string. The source encoder
    implements a process of efficiently converting the signal from the source into a
25  sequence of binary digits. The information from the source encoder is then passed into
    a channel encoder where redundancy is introduced into the binary information
    sequence. This redundancy may be utilized at the receiver to overcome the effects of
    noise, interference and the like encountered on the channel. The binary sequence is
    then passed to a digital modulator which in turn converts the sequence into analog
30  electrical signals for transmission over the channel. Essentially, the digital modulator
    maps the binary sequences into signal waveforms or symbols. Each symbol may
                                                    24

    represent the value of one or more bits. The digital modulator may modulate a phase,
    frequency or amplitude of a high frequency carrier signal appropriate for transmission
    over or through the channel. The channel is the medium through which the waveforms
    travel, and the channel may introduce interference or other corruption of the waveforms.
  5 In the case of the wireless communication system, the channel is the atmosphere. The
    digital demodulator receives the channel-corrupted waveform, processes it and reduces
    the waveform to a sequence of numbers that represent, as nearly as possible, the
    transmitted data symbols. The channel decoder reconstructs the original information
    sequence from knowledge of the code utilized by the channel encoder and the
 .o redundancy in the received data. The source decoder decodes the sequence from
    knowledge of the encoding algorithm, wherein the output thereof is representative of the
    source information signal. It is important to note that the above described elements may
    be realized in hardware, in software or in a combination of hardware and software. In
    addition, the communication channel may comprise any type of channel, including wired
 .5 and wireless. In wireless, the channel may be configured for high frequency
    electromagnetic signals, low frequency electromagnetic signals, visible light signals and
    infrared light signals.
            Figures 15 A and B are diagrammatic representations of an exemplary pupil
  o position and convergence detection system 1500 for control of one or more aspects of a
    powered ophthalmic lens. Sensor 1502 detects the movement and/or position of the
    pupil or, more generally, the eye. The sensor 1502 may be implemented as a multi-axis
    accelerometer on a contact lens 1501. With the contact lens 1501 being affixed to the
    eye and generally moving with the eye, an accelerometer on the contact lens 1501 may
25  track eye movement. The sensor 1502 may also be implemented as a rear-facing
    camera or sensor which detects changes in images, patterns, or contrast to track eye
    movement. Alternately, the sensor 1502 may comprise neuromuscular sensors to detect
    nerve and/or muscle activity which moves the eye in the socket. There are six muscles
    attached to each eye globe which provide each eye with a full range of movement and
30  each muscle has its own unique action or actions. These six muscles are innervated by
    one of the three cranial nerves. It is important to note that any suitable device may be
                                                  25

    utilized as the sensor 1502, and more than a single sensor 1502 may be utilized. The
    output of the sensor 1502 is acquired, sampled, and conditioned by signal processor
    1504. The signal processor 1504 may include any number of devices including an
    amplifier, a transimpedance amplifier, an analog-to-digital converter, a filter, a digital
  5 signal processor, and related circuitry to receive data from the sensor 1502 and
    generate output in a suitable format for the remainder of the components of the system
    1500. The signal processor 1504 may be implemented utilizing analog circuitry, digital
    circuitry, software, and/or preferably a combination thereof. It should be appreciated that
    the signal processor 1504 is co-designed with the sensor 1502 utilizing methods that
 .0 are known in the relevant art, for example, circuitry for acquisition and conditioning of an
    accelerometer are different than the circuitry for a muscle activity sensor or optical pupil
    tracker. The output of the signal processor 1504 is preferentially a sampled digital
    stream and may include absolute or relative position, movement, detected gaze in
    agreement with convergence, or other data. System controller 1506 receives input from
 .5 the signal processor 1504 and uses this information, in conjunction with other inputs, to
    control the electronic contact lens 1501. For example, the system controller 1506 may
    output a signal to an actuator 1508 that controls a variable power optic in the contact
    lens 1501. If, for example, the contact lens 1501 is currently in a far focus state and the
    sensor 1502 detects convergence, the system controller 1506 may command the
 .0 actuator 1508 to change to a near focus state. System controller 1506 may both trigger
    the activity of sensor 1502 and the signal processor 1504 while receiving output from
    them. A transceiver 1510 receives and/or transmits communication through antenna
    1502. This communication may come from an adjacent contact lens, spectacle lenses,
    or other devices. The transceiver 1510 may be configured for two way communication
25  with the system controller 1506. Transceiver 1510 may contain filtering, amplification,
    detection, and processing circuitry as is common in transceivers. The specific details of
    the transceiver 1510 are tailored for an electronic or powered contact lens, for example
    the communication may be at the appropriate frequency, amplitude, and format for
    reliable communication between eyes, low power consumption, and to meet regulatory
30  requirements. Transceiver 1510 and antenna 1512 may work in the radio frequency
    (RF) bands, for example 2.4 GHz, or may use light for communication. Information
                                                 26

    received from transceiver 1510 is input to the system controller 1506, for example,
    information from an adjacent lens which indicates convergence or divergence. System
    controller 1506 uses input data from the signal processor 1504 and/or transceiver 1510
    to decide if a change in system state is required. The system controller 1506 may also
  5 transmit data to the transceiver 1510, which then transmits data over the
    communication link via antenna 1512. The system controller 1506 may be implemented
    as a state machine, on a field-programmable gate array, in a microcontroller, or in any
    other suitable device. Power for the system 1500 and components described herein is
    supplied by a power source 1514, which may include a battery, energy harvester, or
 .0 similar device as is known to one of ordinary skill in the art. The power source 1514 may
    also be utilized to supply power to other devices on the contact lens 1501. The
    exemplary pupil position and convergence detection system 1500 of the present
    disclosure is incorporated and/or otherwise encapsulated and insulated from the saline
    contact lens 1501 environment.
 .5
            Figure 16 illustrates an exemplary, simplified correlation between convergence
    1600 and focal length states 1602, 1604, and 1606 as is commonly documented in the
    ophthalmic literature. When in the far focus state 1602 and 1606, as described with
    respect to Figures 12A and 12B, the degree of convergence is low. When in the near
 .0 focus state 1604, as described with respect to Figures 13A and 13B, the degree of
    convergence is high. A threshold 1608 may be set in the system controller (element
    1506 of Figure 15) to change the state of the electronic ophthalmic lens, for example,
    focusing a variable optic with add power when the threshold is passed going positive
    then focusing the variable optic with no add power when the threshold is passed going
25  negative.
            Eye tracking is the process of determining either or both where an individual is
    looking, point of gaze, or the motion of an eye relative to the head. An individual's gaze
    direction is determined by the orientation of the head and the orientation of the eyes.
30  More specifically, the orientation of an individual's head determines the overall direction
    of the gaze while the orientation of the individual's eyes determines the exact gaze
                                                  27

    direction which in turn is limited by the orientation of the head. Information of where an
    individual is gazing provides the ability to determine the individual's focus of attention
    and this information may be utilized in any number of disciplines or application,
    including cognitive science, psychology, human-computer interaction, marketing
  5 research and medical research. For example, eye gaze direction may be utilized as a
    direct input into a controller or computer to control another action. In other words, simple
    eye movements may be utilized to control the actions of other devices, including highly
    complex functions. Simple eye movements may be utilized in a manner similar to
    "swipes" which have become common in touch-screen and smartphone applications, for
 .o example, swiping to unlock a device, change applications, change pages, zoom in or
    out and the like. Eye gaze tracking systems are presently utilized to restore
    communication and functionality to those who are paralyzed, for example, using eye
    movements to operate computers. Eye tracking or gaze tracking may also be utilized in
    any number of commercial applications, for example, what individuals are paying
 .s attention to when they are watching television, browsing websites and the like. The data
    collected from this tracking may be statistically analyzed to provide evidence of specific
    visual patterns. Accordingly, information garnered from detecting eye or pupil movement
    may be utilized in a wide range applications. Once again, it is also important to note that
    the sensed data, in addition to or in alternate use may simply be utilized as part of a
  o collection process rather than as a triggering event. For example, the sensed data may
    be collected, logged and utilized in treating medical conditions. In other words, it should
    also be appreciated that a device utilizing such a sensor may not change state in a
    manner visible to the user; rather the device may simply log data. For example, such a
    sensor could be used to determine if a user has the proper iris response throughout a
25  day or if a problematic medical condition exists. It is important to note, that eye tracking
    in accordance with the present disclosure may be set up for gross or fine tracking
    monitoring. There are a number of currently available devices for tracking eye
    movement, including video-based eye trackers, search coils and arrangements for
    generating electrooculograms. Search coils or inductive sensors are devices which
30  measure the variations of the surrounding magnetic fields. Essentially, a number of coils
    may be imbedded into a contact lens type device and the polarity and amplitude of the
                                                   28

    current generated in the coils varies with the direction and angular displacement of the
    eye. An electrooculogram is generated by a device for the detection of eye movement
    and eye position based on the difference in electrical potential between electrodes
    placed on either side of the eye. All of these devices are not suitable for use with a
  5 wearable, comfortable electronic ophthalmic lens or powered contact lens. Therefore, in
    accordance with another exemplary embodiment, the present disclosure is directed to a
    powered contact lens comprising a gaze sensor incorporated directly into the contact
    lens. As described, the gaze sensor may comprise a capacitive sensor configured to
    detect capacitance based on the overlay of an upper eyelid and a lower eyelid on
 .0 capacitive sensor electrodes. As such, the eyelid positions may be determined based
    on the capacitance measurements of the electrodes. As an example, a number of
    capacitance measurements may be sampled and associated with known eyelid
    positions. As such, when the same or similar capacitance measurements are detected,
    the eyelid positions may be determined from the associated positions and sampled
 .5 capacitance.
             Figures 17A and 17B illustrate a pair of eyes 1701 substantially similar to those
    25 illustrated in Figures 12A and 12B, with the exception that in this example the object
    under observation, not illustrated, is to the right of the user. Figure 17A illustrates a front
 .0 perspective of the eyes 1701, whereas Figure 17B illustrates a top perspective of the
    eyes 1701. The position to the right is used for illustrative purposes, but it should be
    appreciated that the object under observation could be at any visible point in three
    dimension space with the corresponding changes in eye gaze. As illustrated, via
    exaggeration, pupils 1703 both face toward the right. Lines 1705 drawn between the
25  pupils 1703 and the object under observation are almost parallel since the object is
    illustrated to be much farther from the eyes 1701 than the distance between the eyes
    1701. Angle 1707 is less than ninety (90) degrees whereas angle 1709 is greater than
    ninety (90) degrees. These angles are in contrast to previous figures where the angles
    were either both ninety (90) degrees, when gazing straight ahead at a distant object, or
30  both less than ninety degrees, when gazing straight ahead at a nearby object. As is
    illustrated in two dimensions, the angle may be used to determine gaze position or,
                                                   29

    more generally, samples of eye movement may be utilized to determine absolute and
    relative position and movement of eye gaze.
            Figure 18 illustrates the geometric systems associated with various gaze
  5 directions. Figure 18 is a top view. Eyes 1801 and 1803 are shown gazing upon various
    targets labeled A, B, C, D, and E. A line connects each eye 1801 and 1803 to each 15
    target. A triangle is formed by each of the two lines connecting the eyes 1801 and 1803
    with a given target in addition to a line connecting both eyes 1801 and 1803. As may be
    seen in the illustration, the angles between the direction of gaze in each eye 1801 and
 .0 1803 and the line between the two eyes 1801 and 1803 varies for each target. These
    angles may be measured by the sensor system, determined from indirect sensor
    measurements, or may only be shown for illustrative purposes. Although shown in two
    dimensional space for simplicity of illustration, it should be apparent that gaze occurs in
    three-dimensional space with the corresponding addition of an additional axis. Targets
 .5 A and B are shown relatively near to the eyes 1801 and 1803, for example, to be read
    with near-focus accommodation. Target A is to the right of both eyes 1801 and 1803,
    hence both eyes 1801 and 1803 are pointing right. Measuring the angle formed
    anticlockwise between the horizontal axis, illustrated collinear with the line connecting
    the two eyes 1801 and 1803, and direction of gaze, both angles are acute for target A.
 .0 Now referring to target B the eyes 1801 and 1803 are converged on a target in front of
    and between both eyes 1801 and 1803. Hence the angle, previously defined as
    anticlockwise from the horizontal axis and the direction of gaze, is obtuse for the right
    eye 1803 and acute for the left eye 1801. A suitable sensor system will differentiate the
    positional difference between targets A and B with suitable accuracy for the application
25  of concern. Target C is shown at intermediate distance for the special case of the right
    eye 1803 having the same direction of gaze and angle as target B. The gaze direction
    varies between targets B and C allowing a gaze direction determination system using
    inputs from both eyes 1801 and 1803 to determine the direction of gaze. Further, a case
    could be illustrated where another target F lies above target B in three-dimensional
30  space. In such an example, projected into the two-dimensional illustration shown in
                                                   30

             Figure 18, the angles from the horizontal axis would be identical to those
    illustrated for target B. However, the angles normal to the page extending in three
    dimensional space would not be equal between the targets. Finally, targets D and E are
    shown as distant objects. These examples illustrate that as the object under gaze is
  5 farther away, the angular difference at the eyes 1801 and 1803 between distant points
    becomes smaller. A suitable system for detecting gaze direction would have sufficient
    accuracy to 15 differentiate between small, distant objects.
            The direction of gaze may be determined by any number of suitable devices, for
 .0 example, with reverse-facing photodetectors to observe the pupils or with
    accelerometers to tack the movement of the eyes. Neuromuscular sensors may also be
    utilized. By monitoring the six muscles that control eye movement, the precise direction
    of gaze may be determined. A memory element to store prior position and/or
    acceleration may be required in addition to a position computation system considering
 .5 present and past sensor inputs. In addition, the system illustrated in Figures 15A and
    15B are equally applicable to the gaze and tracking system of the present disclosure.
            The system is preferably programmed to account for gazing geometries in three
    dimensional space. It is known in the art of optometry that the eyes do not remain
 .0 completely stable when gazing at a stationary object. Rather, the eyes quickly move
    back and forth. A suitable system for detecting gaze position would include the
    necessary filtering and/or compensation to account for visual physiology. For example,
    such a system may include a low-pass filter or an algorithm specially tuned to a user's
    natural eye behaviors.
25
             In one exemplary embodiment, the electronics and electronic interconnections
    are made in the peripheral zone of a contact lens rather than in the optic zone. In
    accordance with an alternate exemplary embodiment, it is important to note that the
    positioning of the electronics need not be limited to the peripheral zone of the contact
30  lens. All of the electronic components described herein may be fabricated utilizing thin
    film technology and/or transparent materials. If these technologies are utilized, the
                                                  31

    electronic components may be placed in any suitable location as long as they are
    compatible with the optics.
            The activities of the acquisition sampling signal processing block and system
  5 controller (1504 and 1506 in Figure 15B, respectively) depend on the available sensor
    inputs, the environment, and user reactions. The inputs, reactions, and decision
    thresholds may be determined from one or more of ophthalmic research,
    preprogramming, training, and adaptive/learning algorithms. For example, the general
    characteristics of eye movement may be well-documented in literature, applicable to a
 .0 broad population of users, and pre-programmed into system controller. However, an
    individual's deviations from the general expected response may be recorded in a
    training session or part of an adaptive/learning algorithm which continues to refine the
    response in operation of the electronic ophthalmic device. In one exemplary
    embodiment, the user may train the device by activating a handheld fob, which
 .5 communicates with the device, when the user desires near focus. A learning algorithm
    in the device may then reference sensor inputs in memory before and after the fob
    signal to refine internal decision algorithms. This training period could last for one day,
    after which the device would operate autonomously with only sensor inputs and not
    require the fob. An intraocular lens or IOL is a lens that is implanted in the eye and
 .0 replaces the crystalline lens. It may be utilized for individuals with cataracts or simply to
    treat various refractive errors. An IOL typically comprises a small plastic lens with plastic
    side struts called haptics to hold the lens in position within the capsular bag in the eye.
    Any of the electronics and/or components described herein may be incorporated into
    IOLs in a manner similar to that of contact lenses.
25
            Although shown and described in what is believed to be the most practical and
    preferred embodiments, it is apparent that departures from specific designs and
    methods described and shown will suggest themselves to those skilled in the art and
    may be used without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. The present
30  disclosure is not restricted to the particular constructions described and illustrated, but
                                                   32

   should be constructed to cohere with all modifications that may fall within the scope of
   the appended claims.
          In this specification, the terms "comprise", "comprises", "comprising" or similar
   terms are intended to mean a non-exclusive inclusion, such that a system, method or
 5 apparatus that comprises a list of elements does not include those elements solely, but
   may well include other elements not listed.
          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be taken
   as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
   common general knowledge in Australia.
.0
                                                33

    WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
    1. An eyelid position sensing system for a powered ophthalmic device, the
       eyelid position sensing system comprising:
  5    a first electrode configured to be selectively overlaid by one or more of an
              upper eyelid and a lower eyelid of a user;
       a second electrode configured to be selectively overlaid by one or more of an
              upper eyelid and a lower eyelid of a user; and
       a system controller cooperatively associated with the first electrode and the
 .0          second electrode to receive a capacitance measurement therefrom, the
             system controller configured to determine a position of one or more of
             the upper eyelid and the lower eyelid in spatial coordinates based on the
             capacitance measurement received from the first electrode and the
             second electrode.
 .5
    2. The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 1, wherein the first
       electrode and the second electrode are spaced apart.
    3. The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 1, wherein the first
 .0    electrode and the second electrode are disposed on the powered ophthalmic
       device.
    4. The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 3, wherein the
       powered ophthalmic device comprises a contact lens, an intraocular lens, an
25     overlay lens, an ocular insert, or an optical insert, or a combination thereof.
    5. The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 1, wherein one or more
       of the first electrode and the second electrode is configured in a generally
       curvilinear shape.
30  6. The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 1, wherein the first
       electrode and the second electrode are configured in a generally annular
       shape.
                                          34

    7. The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 1, wherein the first
       electrode and the second electrode are disposed on opposite sides of a pupil
       of an eye of the user of the powered ophthalmic device.
  5
    8. The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 1, further comprising a
       signal processor configured to receive signals from the sensor, perform digital
       signal processing, and output one or more to the system controller.
 .0 9. The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 8, wherein signal
       processor comprises associated memory.
    10.The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 1, further comprising a
       power supply.
 .5
    11.The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 1, wherein the spatial
       coordinates are in two dimensions.
    12.The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 1, wherein the spatial
 .0    coordinates are in three dimensions.
    13.The eyelid position sensing system according to claim 1, further comprising a
       transceiver configured to wirelessly interfaces with an external device.
25  14.A powered ophthalmic device comprising:
       a lens including an optic zone and a peripheral zone; and
       an eye gaze tracking system incorporated into the peripheral zone of the
             contact lens, the eye gaze tracking system including a capacitive touch
             sensor to detect a capacitance based at least on a position of one or
30           more of an upper eyelid and a lower eyelid, a system controller
             cooperatively associated with the capacitive touch sensor, the system
             controller configured to determine gaze direction in spatial coordinates
             based on information received from the sensor, and at least one actuator
                                          35

             configured to receive the output control signal and implement a
             predetermined function.
    15.The powered ophthalmic device according to claim 14, wherein the capacitive
  5    touch sensor comprises a plurality of spaced-apart electrodes.
    16.The powered ophthalmic device according to claim 15, wherein the plurality of
       spaced-apart electrodes are configured in a generally curvilinear shape.
 .0 17.The powered ophthalmic device according to claim 15, wherein the plurality of
       spaced-apart electrodes are configured in a generally annular shape.
    18.The powered ophthalmic device according to claim 15, wherein at least two of
       the plurality of spaced-apart electrodes are disposed on opposite sides of a
 .5    pupil of an eye of the user of the powered ophthalmic device.
    19.The powered ophthalmic lens according to claim 14, wherein the eye gaze
       tracking system further comprises a signal processor configured to receive
       signals from the sensor, perform digital signal processing, and output one or
 .0    more to the system controller.
    20.The powered ophthalmic lens according to claim 19, wherein signal processor
       comprises associated memory.
    21.The powered ophthalmic lens according to claim 14, wherein the eye gaze
25     tracking system further comprises a power supply.
    22.The powered ophthalmic lens according to claim 14, wherein the eye gaze
       tracking system further comprises a communication system for
       communication with at least a second lens.
30  23.The powered ophthalmic lens according to claim 14, wherein the spatial
       coordinates are in two dimensions.
                                          36

  24.The powered ophthalmic lens according to claim 14, wherein the spatial
     coordinates are in three dimensions.
  25.The powered ophthalmic lens according to claim 14, wherein the eye gaze
5    tracking system wirelessly interfaces with an external device.
                                       37

<removed-date>
              110
                              102
<removed-apn>
              112
                                    201                     202             212
                              200                     210     203a
              210     203d
                    203       204
                                                                     203b
                                            Pupil
              202
                    212                         206         208             214
                             203c
                                          200

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                           906
                           406
                    410
                    910                  912
                                         412
                                         408
                                         908
                                       904
                                       404
                                 414
                                 914
              402
              902
                          400
                          900

<removed-date>
                                     500
                                           502
                    5B
<removed-apn>
                                                 500
                               514
              504
                         506
                               508
                         506
                         506          510              512

                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
      800         700                            600
            710                            610
810

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
904
      902                       900

<removed-date>
                                         1002
                           1000
                 1003
<removed-apn>
                                                1003
                                  1012
                        1010
              1013
                                            1013

<removed-date>                     1103h       1102
                             1100               1103a
                     1103g                                 1103b
<removed-apn>
              1110
                1103f                                   1103c
                                              1103d
                         1112       1103e
                                1103h       1102
                             1100               1103a
                     1103g                                 1103b
                 1110
                                                  1103c
                1103f
                                              1103d
                        1112        1103e

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                1103h       1102
                             1100               1103a
                1103g                                     1103b
              1110
                     1103f
                                                  1103c
                      1112                    1103d
                                    1103e

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
