                                            Abstract
         The present invention belongs to the technical field of fences or indoor and
   outdoor greening, and relates to a foldable greening rack, wherein upper surfaces or
5  lower surfaces of a plurality of first supporting rods, which are parallel to one
   another and arranged at intervals, are overlaid with a plurality of second supporting
   rods, which are parallel to one another and arranged at intervals and intersect with
   the first supporting rods, and riveting holes configured at positions, where the first
   supporting rods intersect with the second supporting rods, are in hinged connection
-0 through rivets to form the latticed greening rack; according to the specific structure
   of each rivet, an upper end face of a base is centrally provided with a first column;
   the upper end of the first column is provided with a first cone boss; an upper end
   face of the first cone boss is centrally provided with a second column; an upper end
   of the second column is provided with a second cone boss; the outer diameter of the
5  first cone boss and the outer diameter of the base are both greater than the outer
   diameter of the first column, the outer diameter of the second cone boss is greater
   than the outer diameter of the second column, and the outer diameter of the first
   cone boss is greater than the outer diameter of the second cone boss. The foldable
   greening rack has the advantages of being simple in structure, easy to install,
!o attractive in appearance, etc., and is suitable for indoor and outdoor greening.
                                              8

                 Drawings
         10               20       30
    00         0      0          0   0
0         0           000      0       0
  0 0  0    00      0        0 0   0     0
                  Fig. 1
                   1/4

                                           Description
                                    Foldable Greening Rack
  5 Technical Field
          The present invention belongs to the technical field of fences or indoor and
    outdoor greening, and relates to a foldable greening rack.
    Background Art
  0       Currently, some courtyards, gardens or partition walls or ceilings in rooms are
    equipped with artificial plants with a greening effect to look good or make people
    feel like they are actually in nature. However, as artificial plants available in the
    market now need to be wound around or tied to frames on fences, railings or
    ceilings, the assembly is hard, the production cost is high, the appearance is poor,
  5 and artificial plants are prone to detachment.
    Summary of the Invention
          The present invention aims to provide a telescopic greening rack which is firm
    in connection, attractive in appearance and low in production cost.
 .0       The object of the present invention is realized by:
          a foldable greening rack, wherein upper surfaces or lower surfaces of a
    plurality of first supporting rods, which are parallel to one another and arranged at
    intervals, are overlaid with a plurality of second supporting rods, which are parallel
    to one another and arranged at intervals and intersect with the first supporting rods,
25  and riveting holes configured at positions, where the first supporting rods intersect
    with the second supporting rods, are in hinged connection through rivets to form the
    latticed greening rack; according to the specific structure of each rivet, an upper end
    face of a base is centrally provided with a first column; the upper end of the first
    column is provided with a first cone boss; an upper end face of the first cone boss is
30  centrally provided with a second column; an upper end of the second column is
    provided with a second cone boss; the outer diameter of the first cone boss and the
                                                I

    outer diameter of the base are both greater than the outer diameter of the first
    column, the outer diameter of the second cone boss is greater than the outer
    diameter of the second column, and the outer diameter of the first cone boss is
    greater than the outer diameter of the second cone boss.
 5        Both the first supporting rods and the second supporting rods are hollow
    rectangular tubes, round tubes or flat tubes.
          The outer diameter of the first columns is greater than the outer diameter of the
    second columns.
          The rivets are each of an integral solid structure obtained through injection
 0  molding.
          Both the first supporting rods and the second supporting rods are made of
    plastics.
          The outer diameter of the first columns is matched with the inner diameter of
    the riveting holes configured at positions where the first supporting rods intersect
 5  with the second supporting rods.
          An artificial plant is inserted in the second column of each rivet.
          Each artificial plant comprises an ornamental part integrally formed and an
    insertion part connected to the bottom of the ornamental part. In the insertion part,
    two or more connecting pillars are formed and spaced apart on one end face of a
 o0 cylindrical boss or a conical boss with a center hole, an outer end of each
    connecting pillar is connected to the bottom of the ornamental part, and the inner
    diameter of the center hole is matched with the outer diameter of the second
    column.
          The ornamental parts are plastic artificial flowers, or artificial flowers with
25  artificial leaves, or artificial leaves, or artificial branches and leaves.
          Compared with the prior art, the foldable greening rack has the following
    outstanding and beneficial technical effects:
          1. the first supporting rods and the second supporting rods of the greening rack
    are formed by means of the solid rivets through riveting connection, the artificial
30  plants can be assembled and inserted in the greening rack, in this way, complicated
    production processes like winding and tying are omitted, raw materials are saved,
                                                    2

    the production process is simple, and the production cost is low;
          2. the solid rivets have high strength, a long service life and a good
    anti-detachment effect, which is not prone to detachment and attractive in
    appearance;
 5        3. due to the fact that the artificial plants can be easily inserted into the second
    cone boss of each rivet of the greening rack, the greening rack and the artificial
    plants can be packaged and transported separately, and can also be packaged and
    transported after being well assembled, and diversified transportation demands of
    users can be met easily; and
 0        4. the foldable greening rack has the advantages that the structure is simple,
    installation is easy, the production cost is low, the artificial plants are not prone to
    detachment after being inserted in the greening rack, and the appearance is
    attractive, and the foldable greening rack is suitable for indoor and outdoor isolation
    area greening or space greening.
 5
    Brief Description of the Drawings
          Fig. 1 is a front schematic diagram of the present invention without inserted
    artificial plants.
          Fig. 2 is a front view of a rivet of the present invention.
 o0       Fig. 3 is a local section view of the present invention.
          Fig. 4 is a local perspective view of the present invention.
          Fig. 5 is a schematic perspective view of an artificial plant of the present
    invention.
          Fig. 6 is an enlarged view of a part A of Fig. 5.
25
    Detailed Description of Embodiments
          The present invention is further described with reference to accompanying
    drawings and a specific embodiment (see Figs. 1-6):
          depicted is a foldable greening rack, wherein upper surfaces or lower surfaces
30  of a plurality of first supporting rods 10 which are parallel to one another and
    arranged at intervals are overlaid with a plurality of second supporting rods 20
                                                   3

   which are parallel to one another and arranged at intervals and intersect with the
   first supporting rods 10, and riveting holes configured at positions, where the first
   supporting rods 10 intersect with the second supporting rods 20, are in hinged
   connection through rivets 30 to form the latticed greening rack; according to the
 5 specific structure of each rivet 30, an upper end face of a base 31 is centrally
   provided with a first column 32; the upper end of the first column 32 is provided
   with a first cone boss 33; an upper end face of the first cone boss 33 is centrally
   provided with a second column 34; an upper end of the second column 34 is
   provided with a second cone boss 35, or a conical body, or a mushroom-shaped
 0 body; the outer diameter D3 of the first cone boss 33 and the outer diameter D5 of
   the base 31 are both greater than the outer diameter D4 of the first column 32, the
   outer diameter D1 of the second cone boss 35 is greater than the outer diameter D2
   of the second column 34, and the outer diameter D3 of the first cone boss 33 is
   greater than the outer diameter D1 of the second cone boss 35.
 5       Both the first supporting rods 10 and the second supporting rods 20 are hollow
   rectangular tubes, round tubes or flat tubes.
         The outer diameter D4 of the first columns 32 is greater than the outer
   diameter D2 of the second columns 34.
         The rivets 30 are each of an integral solid structure obtained through injection
   molding.
         Both the first supporting rods 10 and the second supporting rods 20 are made
   of plastics.
         The outer diameter D4 of the first columns 32 is matched with the inner
   diameter of the riveting holes configured at positions where the first supporting rods
25 10 intersect with the second supporting rods 20.
         An artificial plant 40 is inserted in the second column 34 of each rivet 30.
         Each artificial plant 40 comprises an ornamental part 41 integrally formed and
   an insertion part 42 connected to the bottom of the ornamental part 41. In the
   insertion part 42, two or more connecting pillars 423 are formed and spaced apart
30 on one end face of a cylindrical boss or a conical boss 421 with a center hole 422,
   an outer end of each connecting pillar 423 is connected to the bottom of the
                                                 4

  ornamental part 41, and the inner diameter of the center hole 422 is matched with
  the outer diameter D2 of the second column 34.
        The ornamental parts 41 are plastic artificial flowers, or artificial flowers with
  artificial leaves 411, or artificial leaves 411, or artificial branches and leaves.
5       The above-described embodiment is only a preferred embodiment of the
  present invention, and is not intended to limit the protection scope of the present
  invention. Accordingly, all equivalent modifications made according to the
  structure, shape and principle of the invention should be considered as falling
  within the protection scope of the invention.
                                                5

                                             Claims
          1.   A foldable greening rack, wherein upper surfaces or lower surfaces of a
    plurality of first supporting rods, which are parallel to one another and arranged at
 5  intervals, are overlaid with a plurality of second supporting rods, which are parallel
    to one another and arranged at intervals and intersect with the first supporting rods,
    and riveting holes configured at positions, where the first supporting rods intersect
    with the second supporting rods, are in hinged connection through rivets to form the
    latticed greening rack, characterized in that according to the specific structure of
 -0 each rivet, an upper end face of a base is centrally provided with a first column; the
    upper end of the first column is provided with a first cone boss; an upper end face of
    the first cone boss is centrally provided with a second column; an upper end of the
    second column is provided with a second cone boss; the outer diameter of the first
    cone boss and the outer diameter of the base are both greater than the outer diameter
 5  of the first column, the outer diameter of the second cone boss is greater than the
    outer diameter of the second column, and the outer diameter of the first cone boss is
    greater than the outer diameter of the second cone boss.
          2.   The foldable greening rack according to claim 1, characterized in that
 !0 both the first supporting rods and the second supporting rods are hollow rectangular
    tubes, round tubes or flat tubes, and both the first supporting rods and the second
    supporting rods are made of plastics.
          3.   The foldable greening rack according to claim 1, characterized in that the
25  outer diameter of the first columns is greater than the outer diameter of the second
    columns, the outer diameter of the first columns is matched with the inner diameter
    of the riveting holes configured at positions where the first supporting rods intersect
    with the second supporting rods.
30        4.   The foldable greening rack according to any one of claims               1-3,
    characterized in that an artificial plant is inserted in the second column of each
                                              6

  rivet; each artificial plant comprises an ornamental part integrally formed and an
  insertion part connected to the bottom of the ornamental part; in the insertion part,
  two or more connecting pillars are formed and spaced apart on one end face of a
  cylindrical boss or a conical boss with a center hole; an outer end of each
5 connecting pillar is connected to the bottom of the ornamental part; and the inner
  diameter of the center hole is matched with the outer diameter of the second
  column.
        5.   The foldable greening rack according to claim 4, characterized in that the
0 ornamental parts are plastic artificial flowers, or artificial flowers with artificial
  leaves, or artificial leaves, or artificial branches and leaves; and the rivets are each
  of an integral solid structure obtained through injection molding.
                                              7

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
