                                                        ABSTRACT
        Microparticles are prepared by a method that includes: (a) forming a layer comprising a first polymer
on a solid surface by depositing a first composition one or more times on the solid surface, wherein the first
composition comprises the first polymer and a first solvent, and evaporating the first solvent in the first
composition; (b) forming one or more layers comprising a second polymer and a therapeutic agent by
depositing a second composition on all or part of the layer formed in step (a), wherein the second
composition comprises the second polymer, the therapeutic agent, and a second solvent; and evaporating the
second solvent in the second composition; and (c) forming an additional layer comprising a third polymer by
depositing a third composition one or more times on a previously formed layer, wherein the third
composition comprises the third polymer and a third solvent; and evaporating the third solvent in the third
composition.
                 600
                                           AA*
                                    50                                    -k
                      10. .....      ...       ..................                            .....................................
                    M 0       .....      ...........        .          ..                             .         . .    .
                                                 . ..  . .  . .. . .. .       .   .           .  . ..... .....                  C..
                                                           ~..       .
                                                              ...............   .   ........                             ......
                     0       2         4             6                     8                    10             12   14           16       1s    20
                                                                                        Weeks
             Sample            Sample                    Drug                           Inner Layer Polymer                         Outer Layer
               No.          Description                  Load                                                                        Polymer
                                                      (% w/w)
            Sample 1 Brinzolamide                  11 9                              115 kDa PLGA                              None
                         suspension in                                              (Evonik Industries/
                         dicholoromethane                                           Lakeshore Biomaterials
                                                                                    7525 DLG 7E)
            Sample 2     Brinzolamide              10.2                              115 kDa PLGA                              Two coatings of
                         suspension in                                              (Evonik Industries/                        5% 178 kDa
                         dicholoromethane                                           Lakeshore Biomaterials                    PLGA (Akina
                                                                                    7525 DLG 7E                                8520)

    WO 2014/047477                                                            PCT/US2013/060987
                    Multilayer Biodegradable Microparticles
                  for Sustained Release of Therapeutic Agents
                                       TECHNICAL FIELD
           This invention relates to methods for forming multilayer microparticles for
   sustained release of therapeutic agents and compositions comprising multilayer
   microparticles.
 5                                       BACKGROUND
           Microparticles composed of a biodegradable polymer are useful for controlled
   release of therapeutic agents. Microparticles can be formed using a template (US
   2009/0136583).
                                            SUMMARY
10         The present disclosure features methods of forming multilayer microparticles for
   sustained release of therapeutic agents. These methods include (a) forming a layer
   comprising a first polymer on a solid surface by depositing a first composition one or
   more times on the solid surface, wherein the first composition comprises the first polymer
   and a first solvent, and evaporating the first solvent in the first composition; (b) forming
15 one or more layers comprising a second polymer and a therapeutic agent by depositing a
   second composition on all or part of the layer formed in step (a), wherein the second
   composition comprises the second polymer, the therapeutic agent, and a second solvent;
   and evaporating the second solvent in the second composition; and (c) forming an
   additional layer comprising a third polymer by depositing a third composition one or
20 more times on a previously formed layer, wherein the third composition comprises the
   third polymer and a third solvent; and evaporating the third solvent in the third
   composition. In some cases the molecular weight of the first and third polymers is
   greater than the molecular weight of the second polymer. In some cases the first and
   third polymers have the same molecular weight and in some cases they differ in
25 molecular weight. In some cases there are two or more inner layers. For example, one
   inner layer can contain a first therapeutic agent and the second inner layer can contain a
                                                  1

    WO 2014/047477                                                            PCT/US2013/060987
   second therapeutic agent. In addition, when there are two or more inner layers they can
   differ in the polymer type or molecular weight. In addition, where there are two or more
   inner layers, the can be formed using compositions that differ in solvent, As explained in
   greater detail below, when adjacent layers are formed using compositions that differ with
 5 respect to solvent and/or polymer, there is less tendency for material from the two
   adjacent layers to intermingle during layer formation. In some embodiments, the first
   and the third compositions do not contain a therapeutic agent, thus in some cases the
   layers formed by the first and the third compositions contain only polymer or only
   polymer and non-therapeutic components. The polymer outer layers can act as barriers
10 in controlling the initial burst release of the therapeutic agent and further reduce its
   subsequent release rate from the inner layer of the microparticle. Thus, the methods of
   forming microparticles disclosed herein are useful for achieving sustained release of
   therapeutic agents with reduced or no burst release.
            Described herein is a method for preparing a multilayer microparticle, the method
15 comprising:
            (a) forming a layer comprising a first polymer on a solid surface by depositing a
   first composition one or more times on the solid surface, wherein the first composition
   comprises the first polymer and a first solvent, and evaporating the first solvent in the
   deposited first composition;
?0          (b) forming a layer comprising a second polymer and a therapeutic agent by
   depositing a second composition on all or part of the layer formed in step (a), wherein the
   second composition comprises the second polymer, the therapeutic agent, and a second
   solvent; and evaporating the second solvent in the deposited second composition; and
            (c) forming an additional layer comprising a third polymer by depositing a third
25 composition one or more times on a previously formed layer, wherein the third
   composition comprises the third polymer and a third solvent; and evaporating the third
   solvent in the deposited third composition.
            In various embodiments: the first and the third compositions do not contain a
   therapeutic agent; the first and the third polymers have low solubility in the second
30 solvent; the second polymer has a different molecular weight than the first polymer and
                                                    2

    WO 2014/047477                                                           PCT/US2013/060987
   the third polymer; wherein the molecular weight of the first and the third polymers is
   greater than the molecular weight of the second polymer by at least 40 kilodalton; the
   molecular weight of the first and the third polymers is greater than the molecular weight
   of the second polymer by at least 50 kilodalton; the first and the third polymers have a
 5 molecular weight of 100-350 kilodalton; the second polymer has a molecular weight of
   15-150 kilodalton; the first and the third polymers are the same polymer; the first and the
   third solvents are the same solvent; the second solvent differs from the first and third
   solvents; the first, second, and third polymers are selected from the group consisting of
   poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), poly(lactic acid) (PLA), poly(L-lactic acid)
10 (PLLA), poly(glycolic acid) (PGA), and poly(s-caprolactone), and poly(ortho ester); the
   therapeutic agent is selected from the group consisting of a small molecule drug, a
   peptide drug, a protein drug, a polysaccharide drug, an oligonucleotide, and an antibody;
   step (a) comprises depositing the first composition more than once; step (a) comprises
   depositing the first composition twice and evaporating the first solvent in the first
15 composition twice; step (c) comprises depositing the third composition more than once;
   step (c) comprises by dispensing the third composition and evaporating the third solvent
   in the third composition twice; the solid surface is substantially planar; the solid surface
   is substantially planar and coated; wherein the solid surface is a base of a well and the
   well can be partially filled, completely fill or over filled.
?0          In some cases: the depositing comprises spraying using a device (e.g., a
   microprinter or spray jet printer) that generates droplets having an average diameter less
   than 200, 150, 100 or 60 microns.
            Also disclosed is a composition comprising one or more multilayer
   microparticles, wherein the one or more multilayer microparticles comprise:
25          a first layer comprising a first polymer; and
            a second layer comprising a therapeutic agent and a second polymer, and a third
   layer comprising a third polymer.
            wherein the molecular weights of the first and third polymers are greater than the
   molecular weight of the second polymer.
30
                                                   3

    WO 2014/047477                                                           PCT/US2013/060987
           In various embodiments: the first and third (also called top and bottom) layers do
   not contain a therapeutic agent; the molecular weight of the first polymer and the third
   polymer is greater than the molecular weight of the second polymer by at least 20
   kilodalton; the first and second polymers have a molecular weight of 100-350 kilodalton;
 5 the second polymer has a molecular weight of 15-150 kilodalton; the polymers are
   selected from the group consisting of poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), poly(lactic
   acid) (PLA), poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA), poly(glycolic acid) (PGA), poly(s
   caprolactone), and poly(ortho ester); the therapeutic agent is selected from the group
   consisting of a small molecule drug, a peptide drug, a protein drug, a polysaccharide
10 drug, an oligonucleotide, and an antibody; the multilayer microparticles are essentially
   symmetrical in three dimensions and no one dimension is greater than 80 microns; the
   multilayer microparticles are symmetrical in two dimensions wherein the dimension
   along the longer axis of symmetry is less than 100 microns, and the dimension along the
   shorter axis of symmetry is less than 60 microns; the composition is an implant with a
15 greatest linear dimension that is less than 10 mm; the composition is an implant with a
   greatest linear dimension that is less than 2 mm; the composition is an implant with a
   greatest linear dimension that is less than 500 microns; the composition further
   comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient; the multilayer
   microparticles comprise three or more layers; the multilayer microparticles comprise five
?0 or more layers; the multilayer microparticles comprise layers of uniform thickness; the
   multilayer microparticles comprise layers of different thickness; the multilayer
   microparticles comprise one or more layers not coincident with an adjacent layer; the
   multilayer microparticles comprise one or more layers with an opening (e.g., a ring
   shaped opening); and the micorparticles have two opposing substantially parallel
25 surfaces; and the particles are substantially cylindrical.
           As described herein, a particle can have multiple layers and each layer can be
   formed by multiple applications of a given composition. However, even if two or more
   depositions of a composition are required to form a layer, the layer is still considered a
   single layer because the same composition was used for each deposition used to form the
30 layer.
                                                  4

    WO 2014/047477                                                           PCT/US2013/060987
            In all embodiments, the polymer used to form the various layers is a
   biodegradable polymer, for example, a pharmaceutically acceptable biodegradable
   polymer for administration to a human, for example, the eye of a human.
            The details of one or more embodiments of the invention are set forth in the
 5 accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features, objects, and
   advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description and drawings, and from
   the claims.
                                 DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
            FIG. 1 is a line graph showing that an outer layer of 178 kilodalton (kDa) PLGA
10 reduced the initial burst release and subsequent release rate of brinzolamide from the
   brinzolamide-containing microparticles in an in vitro drug release study.
            FIG. 2 is a line graph showing that an outer layer of 180 kDa PLLA-20 reduced
   the initial burst release and subsequent release rate of brinzolamide from the
   brinzolamide-containing microparticles to a similar extent as the outer layer of 178 kDa
15 PLGA did.
            FIG. 3 is a line graph showing that an outer layer of 109 kDa PLGA reduced the
   initial burst release of acetazolamide from the acetazolamide-containing microparticles in
   an in vitro drug release study.
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
20          The present disclosure features methods of forming multilayer microparticles for
   sustained release of therapeutic agents. The multilayer microparticles can be formed
   using the following steps. First, a bottom outer layer comprising a first polymer can be
   formed by depositing a first composition, which contains the first polymer and a first
   solvent, one or more times on a solid surface and evaporating the first solvent. Next, one
25 or more inner layers can be formed by depositing a second composition, which contains a
   second polymer, a therapeutic agent, and a second solvent, on all or part of the bottom
   layer and evaporating the second solvent. Finally, an additional top outer layer
   comprising a third polymer can be formed by depositing a third composition, which
                                                  5

    WO 2014/047477                                                            PCT/US2013/060987
   comprises a third polymer and a third solvent, one or more times on the last formed layer
   and evaporating the third solvent. In some embodiments, the first and the third
   compositions are the same composition. For example, the first and the third polymers
   can be the same polymer; the first and the third solvents can be the same solvent. In
 5 other cases, the first and third polymers can be different. In some cases the first and third
   solvents differ from the second solvent or the first and third polymers differ from the
   second polymer such that the first and third polymers are less soluble in the second
   solvent than in the second polymer.
            In some embodiments, the first and the third compositions do not contain a
10 therapeutic agent, thus, in these embodiments, the top and bottom outer layers formed by
   the first and the third compositions are polymer alone outer layers or contain polymer and
   non-therapeutic components. Drug-polymer microparticles without such outer layers
   tend to have drug pockets which are caused by a physical separation between the drug
   and the polymer during the solvent evaporation step, possibly due to the differential
15 solubility of the drug and polymer in the solvent, and the migration of the drug along
   with the evaporating solvent towards the microparticle surface. After administration, the
   drug on the microparticle surface, especially from the drug pockets, tends to release as a
   large initial burst. Moreover, the dissolution of drug pockets results in more porous
   microparticles and this further enhances the drug release rate. The microparticles
?0 disclosed herein have outer layers which can act as barriers in controlling the initial burst
   release of the therapeutic agent contained in the inner layer or layers and can lower the
   subsequent release rate from the inner layers of the microparticle. Thus, the methods of
   forming microparticles disclosed herein are useful for achieving sustained release of
   therapeutic agents over an extended duration.
25          In some embodiments, the outer layers (sometimes referred to as the top and
   bottom layers) can contain a therapeutic agent and this therapeutic agent can be the same
   therapeutic agent as present in the inner layer (or layers) or can be different,
            To avoid partial dissolution of a previously formed layer in a subsequent
   deposition step and to avoid intermingling of adjacent layers, in some embodiments, the
30 polymer in the previously formed layer can have low solubility in the solvent of a
                                                  6

    WO 2014/047477                                                            PCT/US2013/060987
   subsequently applied composition. For example, the first polymer can have low
   solubility in the second solvent, and thus the dried bottom outer layer comprising the first
   polymer is not significantly solubilized by the second solvent during the formation of the
   therapeutic agent-containing inner layer or layers. The third polymer can also have low
 5 solubility in the second solvent, and thus the additional top outer layer comprising the
   third polymer is not mixed with the last therapeutic agent-containing inner layer because
   the second polymer and the third polymer stay phase separated due to their differential
   solubility in the second solvent.
            In some cases, the solvent used in the compositions used to form adjacent layers
10 is the same, but the difference in polymer or polymer molecular weight reduced the
   tendency of a subsequently applied solvent containing composition to dissolve or
   partially dissolve previously formed layer.
            The solubility of a polymer in a given solvent can be estimated by the Hilderbrand
   solubility parameter (6). The calculation of Hilderbrand solubility parameter (6) is
15 described in the review article authored by Miller-Chou, B.A. and Koenig, J.L. (A review
   ofpolymer dissolution, Prog. Polym. Sci. 28:1223-1270, 2003), which is fully
   incorporated by reference herein. Briefly, Hilderbrand solubility parameter (6) is the
   square root of the cohesive energy density (CED):
                                                         112
            6 = (CED)     =  (E/V) 112 = [(AHvar -RT)/V]
?0 where AHvap is the enthalpy of vaporization, V is the volume, and T is the absolute
   temperature. Solubility is largely affected by the structural similarity between the
   polymer and the solvent, which is known as the "like dissolves like" principle. Thus, if
   61 is the Hilderbrand solubility parameter of the solvent, and 62 is the Hilderbrand
   solubility parameter of the polymer, a polymer shows high solubility in a solvent when
25 161 - 621 is small, e.g., 161 - 62|< 4. To the contrary, when 161 - 621 is large, e.g., 161
   62| > 4, a polymer has low solubility in the solvent. In some embodiments, the second
   solvent is selected based on the therapeutic agent in the second composition. The first
   and the third polymers can be selected based on a large difference between its
   Hilderbrand solubility parameter and that of the second solvent (i.e., large 161 - 621
30 value).
                                                    7

    WO 2014/047477                                                          PCT/US2013/060987
           The molecular weight of a polymer affects its solubility in a given solvent: higher
   molecular weight of a polymer lowers its solubility (Prog. Polym. Sci. 28:1223-1270,
   2003). In some embodiments, the molecular weight of the first and the third polymers is
   greater than the molecular weight of the second polymer. For example, the molecular
 5 weight of the first and the third polymers can be greater than the molecular weight of the
   second polymer by at least 40 kilodalton (kDa), e.g., by 20 kDa, 25 kDa, 30 kDa, 35 kDa,
   40kDa, 45 kDa, 50 kDa, 55 kDa, 60kDa, 65 kDa, 70kDa, 75 kDa, 80 kDa, 85 kDa, 90
   kDa, 95 kDa, 100 kDa. For example, the first and the third polymers can have an
   average molecular weight of 100-350 kDa; and the second polymer can have an average
10 molecular weight of 15-150 kDa. In some cases it may be desirable to have the outer
   layers formed of the same molecular weight polymer as the inner layers. It may even be
   desirable to have the outer layers formed of a lower molecular weight polymer than the
   inner layers. For example, the molecular weight of the polymer used to form the inner
   layer(s) can be greater than the molecular weight of the polymer used to form the outer
15 layers by at least 20 kDa, 25 kDa, 30 kDa, 35 kDa, 40 kilodalton (kDa), e.g., by 40kDa,
   45 kDa, 50 kDa, 55 kDa, 60kDa, 65 kDa, 70kDa, 75 kDa, 80 kDa, 85 kDa, 90 kDa, 95
   kDa, 100 kDa.
           A wide variety of polymers can be used to form the microparticles and the
   identity and concentration of polymer can vary in the various layers of the microparticles
?0 to provide particles with desirable drug release characteristics. Non-limiting examples of
   polymers include: poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), poly(lactic acid) (PLA), poly(L
   lactic acid) (PLLA), poly(glycolic acid) (PGA), poly(s-caprolactone) (PCL), and
   poly(ortho ester) (POE), and other natural biodegradable polymers, such as collagen,
   chitosan, and poly(amino acid). In some embodiments, the first and the third polymers
25 can be selected from PLGA, PLA, and PLLA. The second polymer can be selected from
   PLGA, PLA, PLLA, PGA, PCL, and POE.
           Various therapeutic agents can be delivered using the multilayer microparticles
   described herein. For example, the therapeutic agent can be a small molecule drug, a
   peptide drug, a protein drug, a polysaccharide drug, an oligonucleotide, or an antibody.
                                                 8

    WO 2014/047477                                                            PCT/US2013/060987
           A variety of solvents can be used in the microparticle fabrication based on the
   type of the therapeutic agent, the polymer, and the formulation. For example, the first,
   second, and third solvents can be selected from Class 3 or Class 2 organic solvents
   according to the ICH Guidance for Industry Q3C Impurities:Residual Solvents issued by
 5 the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2012. Class 3 solvents are less toxic and of
   lower risk to human health and include acetic acid, acetone, anisole, methyl acetate, ethyl
   acetate, isobutyl acetate, propyl acetate, isopropyl acetate, butyl acetate, 1-butanol, 2
   butanol, 3-methyl-1-butanol, methylethylketone, tert-butylmethyl ether,
   methylisobutylketone, dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), 2-methyl-l-propanol, ethanol, ethyl
10 ether, ethyl formate, formic acid, heptane, pentane, 1-pentanol, 1-propanol, and 2
   propanol. Class 2 solvents are toxic but can be used in pharmaceutical products if their
   residual concentration is limited to a FDA specified level. Class 2 solvents include
   acetonitrile, chlorobenzene, chloroform, cumene, cyclohexane, 1,2-dichloroethene,
   dicholoromethane, 1,2-dimethoxyethane, N,N-dimethylacetamide, N,N
15 dimethylformamide, 1,4-dioxane, 2-ethoxyethanol, ethylene glycol, formamide, hexane,
   methanol, 2-methoxyethanol, methylbutylketone, methylcyclohexane, N
   methylpyrrolidone, nitromethane, pyridine, sulfolane, tetrahydrofuran, tetralin, toluene,
   trichloroethylene, and xylene. These solvents allow great flexibility for various types of
   therapeutic agent, polymer, and formulation. The second solvent can be selected based
?0 on the therapeutic agent of the second composition. The first and the third solvents can
   be selected based on the first and the third polymers, respectively.
           The first, second, and third compositions can be either a liquid, gel or a paste. In
   some cases the therapeutic agent is at least partially suspended in the composition
   containing the second solvent and the second polymer rather than fully dissolved.
25 Sometimes a portion of the therapeutic agent is dissolved and a portion is suspended. In
   some embodiments, the compositions can be deposited onto the solid surface using a
   device capable of dispensing a small amount of liquid in a controlled manner, e.g., a
   microprinter. For example, a layer of the microparticle can be formed by the
   microprinter spraying droplets having an average diameter less than 60 microns onto a
30 solid surface or a previously formed layer. In many cases each layer is formed using one
                                                  9

    WO 2014/047477                                                           PCT/US2013/060987
   deposition step and one evaporation step. However, in some cases it may be desirable to
   provide a thicker layer by repeating the deposition and evaporation steps with a chosen
   composition. For example, the deposition step and the evaporation step can be repeated
   once, twice, or three times. The solvents can be evaporated by air drying the deposited
 5 composition at room temperature, e.g., for five to twenty minutes. The evaporation can
   occur after each deposition step, after some deposition steps or after all deposition steps
   for a given layer are complete. However, it preferable the evaporation of substantially all
   of the solvent in a given layer occurs prior to deposition of material to form the
   subsequent layer.
10         Depending on the formulation and solvent composition and deposition process
   used, microparticles may include a variety of types of layers: 1) simple flat layers that are
   layered on top of each other, 2) layers that are not coincident on each other, 3) non
   uniform layers that have a donut shape where the outer diameter is thicker than a middle
   portion of the layer, 4) non-uniform layers that have a hemi-spherical shape, where the
15 outer diameter is thinner than a middle portion of the layer. In general, a given layer need
   not have a uniform thickness.
           In some embodiments, the compositions can be deposited on a substantially
   planar surface and the microparticles thereby formed on the surface can be subsequently
   released from the surface as described below. The substantially planar surface can be
?0 coated to facilitate deposition of the compositions and/or release of the formed
   microparticles.
           In some embodiments, a template having a plurality of wells can be employed to
   fabricate the microparticles. Microfabrication techniques employing hydrogel templates
   are described in: Park (Journal of Controlled Release 141:314-319, 2010). Other
25 microfabrication techniques employing other types of templates are described in
   Whitesides (Annual Review Biomed Engineering 3:335-73, 2001). When a template is
   used, the base of a well in the template serves as the solid surface, and the multilayer
   microparticles can be formed in one or more wells of the template by completely filling,
   partially filling, or overfilling the wells with the compositions. Multilayered
30 microparticles formed in this manner will take on the shape of the wells in which they are
                                                   10

    WO 2014/047477                                                           PCT/US2013/060987
   formed (e.g. cylinders, cubes, rectangular prisms can be formed this way). In addition,
   nearly spherical particles can be built up by using a hemispherical template or a very low
   profile template or essentially flat template made of differentially coated glass or other
   substrate such that the surface of the substrate varies in a manner that allows the
 5 deposited composition to retain a particular shape rather than spread across the substrate
   in an uncontrolled manner. In this manner a hemispherical structure can be produced by
   building up layers on top of each other until the structure protrudes above the template
   and is dried. In some cases, the characteristics of the composition (solvent, viscosity, etc.)
   control the shape of the particle.
10          When a template having wells is used to form the microparticles, the
   microparticles are preferably removed from the template by dissolving the template.
   Thus, the template can be water-soluble, e.g., a hydrogel. Once the microparticles are
   complete they can be released from the template as described below.
            Where a template is used, the template can be formed using a mold. The mold can
15 be prepared by coating a silicon wafer with photoresist and etching out the desired shape
   for the template, which is then formed on the mold. The wells in the template may be any
   desired shape such that the resulting microparticles can have at least one cross-section
   that is square, rectangular, round or some other desired shape.
            Microparticles can be released from planar surfaces or templates using any
20 suitable means, such as by immersing in a solvent that does not substantially dissolve the
   microparticles and filtering or centrifuging. For example, when a water-dissolvable
   hydrogel template is used, the microparticles can be released by dissolving the templates
   in water at a desired temperature. The microparticles can be harvested by filtering the
   microparticle-containing suspension or solution through a sieve, and collecting the
25 microparticles on the top surface of the sieve. To remove excess water, the collected
   microparticles can be freeze dried, e.g., for 12 hours, and then vacuum dried for one to
   ten days, e.g., for five days. The support surface or template can be immersed in liquid
   nitrogen or other cooled gas stream. The microparticles can be blown off with air or
   under vacuum. Additionally, templates may be immersed in a nonsolvent and sonicated
30 to release microparticles.
                                                 11

    WO 2014/047477                                                         PCT/US2013/060987
           Also disclosed herein are compositions containing multilayer microparticles.
   Each multilayer microparticle of the composition includes one or more outer layers
   comprising a first polymer; and one or more inner layers comprising a therapeutic agent
   and a second polymer. In general, the one or more outer layers do not contain a
 5 therapeutic agent. The molecular weight of the first polymer is greater than the
   molecular weight of the second polymer by at least 20 kilodalton, e.g., by 20 kDa, 25
   kDa, 30 kDa, 35 kDa, 40kDa, 45 kDa, 50 kDa, 55 kDa, 60kDa, 65 kDa, 70kDa, 75 kDa,
   80 kDa, 85 kDa, 90 kDa, 95 kDa, 100 kDa. For example, the first polymer can have an
   average molecular weight of 100-350 kDa; the second polymer can have an average
10 molecular weight of 15-150 kDa. The first and second polymers can be selected from:
   poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), poly(lactic acid) (PLA), poly(L-lactic acid)
   (PLLA), poly(glycolic acid) (PGA), poly(s-caprolactone) (PCL), and poly(ortho ester)
   (POE), and other natural biodegradable polymers, such as collagen, chitosan, and
   poly(amino acid).
15         In some embodiments, the multilayer microparticles are essentially symmetrical
   in three dimensions and no one dimension is greater than 80 microns. In some
   embodiments, the multilayer microparticles are symmetrical in two dimensions, and the
   dimension along the longer axis of symmetry is less than 100 microns, while the
   dimension along the shorter axis of symmetry is less than 60 microns.
?0         In some embodiments, the average (on a particle volume basis) Dv (diameter of a
   spherical particle of the same volume) of the microcapsules is less than 100 gm; the
   average Dv of the microcapsules is selected from: less than 90, 80, 70, 60 or 50 gm. In
   some embodiments the microparticles are substantially monodiperse. In some
   embodiments, at least 70% (80%, 90%) of the microcapsules in the composition vary
25 from the average Dv of the microcapsules in the composition by no more than 50% (40%,
   30%, 20% or less). In some cases the average greatest linear dimension of the
   microcapsules is selected from: less than 100, 90, 80, 70, 60, 50 or 40 gm and is greater
   than 30, 40 or 50 gm.In some embodiments, the microparticles comprise three or more
   layers, e.g., including two outer layers and one inner layer. In some embodiments, the
30 microparticles comprise four or more layers, e.g., including two outer layers (a top outer
                                                 12

     WO 2014/047477                                                           PCT/US2013/060987
   layer and a bottom outer layer) and two or more (e.g., two, three, four, five, six, seven,
   eight, nine, or ten) inner layers. The microparticles can include various types of layers.
   For example, the multilayer microparticles can contain layers of uniform thickness. In
   some embodiments, the microparticles consist of uniform flat layers that are layered on
 5 top of each other. The multilayer microparticles can also contain layers of different
   thickness. In some embodiments, the microparticles contain one or more layers not
   coincident with an adjacent layer, e.g., a layer of donut shape with a ring-shaped opening
   or a hemispherical layer. In general, a given layer need not have a uniform thickness.
   For example, the microparticles can contain non-uniform layers where the outer diameter
10 is thicker or thinner than the middle portion of the layer.
           The compositions described herein can also include excipients, vehicles, or
   buffers that are suitable for a particular formulation of the therapeutic agent.
           In some embodiments, the compositions containing multilayer microparticles can
   form an implant when injected into a patient. The implant can have a greatest linear
15 dimension of between 0.5 and 10 mm, e.g., a cylindrical implant with dimensions of
   2 mm x 0.75 mm. The total weight of the implant can be 100 to 5000 micrograms (e.g.,
   250-1000 micrograms). Such a large implant can contain a greater amount of therapeutic
   agent and the therapeutic agent can be released over a longer period of time. For
   example, the microparticles can be formulated to release the therapeutic agent over a
20 period of at least 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months, 18 months, two years or
   longer.
           The compositions can be deposited on a template or a planar surface in a variety
   of ways. For example, when a microprinter is used for deposition on a planar surface,
   the area of each layer depends initially on the diameter of the printer nozzle, the amount
25 of liquid composition deposited to form the layer and the physical characteristics of the
   liquid composition. However, by moving the print head, it is possible to create layers in
   a variety of sizes and shapes. By using a controllable printhead, different layers can have
   different sizes and/or shape. For example, a first layer can be a 50 micron diameter disk,
   the second layer can be a 20 micron diameter disk centered on the first layer and the third
30 layer can be a 50 micron diameter disk centered on the first layer. In some embodiments,
                                                  13

    WO 2014/047477                                                         PCT/US2013/060987
   the liquid composition can be deposited by a microprinter on a template rather than on a
   substantially planar surface. In this embodiment, the microprinter deposits the liquid
   composition in one or more wells of a template having a plurality of wells.
            When using a microprinter, the atmosphere of the enclosure in which deposition
 5 of the liquid composition takes place can be controlled in order to improve the printing
   nozzle efficiency, prevent nozzle clogging, control the evaporation of solvent in the
   deposited liquid composition and to otherwise provide desirable conditions. Depending
   on the polymer, solvent, therapeutic, excipients, and formulation, it may be useful to
   increase or decrease the temperature, the humidity, and the atmospheric pressure. It can
10 also be useful to employ an inert gas atmosphere (e.g., nitrogen or argon), or use an
   atmosphere at least partially saturated with a solvent. Moreover, the temperature of the
   nozzle and/or the deposition surface can be controlled by cooling or heating.
                                           EXAMPLES
            The invention is further described in the following examples, which do not limit
15 the scope of the invention described in the claims.
            Materials
            The experiments were performed using commercially available materials:
   polyvinyl alcohol (PVA, Sigma); poly(lactic-co-glycolic) (PLGA): 54 KDa PLGA
   (Evonik Industries /Lakeshore Biomaterials 6535DLG4A), 109 or 118 kDa PLGA
?0 (Evonik Industries /Lakeshore Biomaterials 8515 DLG 7E), 115 kDa PLGA (Evonik
   Industries /Lakeshore Biomaterials 7525 DLG 7E), and 178 kDa PLGA (Akina 8520);
   poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA): 180 kDa PLLA-20 (Akina); Brinzolamide (BRZ, Chemvon
   Biotechnology), Acetazolamide (ACZ, Spectrum Chemical), Tetrahydrofuran (THF,
   EMD Millipore), Dicholoromethane (DCM, EMD Millipore), Dimethylformamide
25 (DMF, EMD Millipore) and Phosphate Buffered Saline pH 7.4 (PBS, VWR
   International).
            Fabrication of silicon wafer master templates by photolithography
            A silicon wafer was spin coated with SU8 2010 photoresist (Microchem, MA) at
   3,500 rpm for 30 see to obtain a desired thickness followed by baking at 95 'C for 3 min.
                                                 14

    WO 2014/047477                                                         PCT/US2013/060987
   The photoresist coated silicon wafer was exposed to UV radiation through a mask
   containing 10 im diameter circular pattern for 12 sec. After exposure, the silicon wafer
   was post baked at 95 'C for 3 min followed by development in SU-8 developer for 2 min.
   The silicon wafer was rinsed with isopropanol and dried with nitrogen gas. The wafer
 5 thus fabricated contained wells with diameter ranging from 1.5 um to 50 um or larger.
           Fabrication of silicon master templates by e-beam lithography
           Circular patterns for 500 nm diameter were designed using Auto CAD 2007
   program. A 3" silicon wafer (100) covered with 1 im thick SiO2 layer (University
   Wafer) was spin coated with poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA, Microchem)
10 photoresist of 300 nm thick layer using a spin coated (SCS P6708 spin coating system,
   3500 rpm, 30 sec). The coated PMMA photoresist layer was exposed to electron beam (e
   beam) in a preprogrammed pattern using Leica VB6 High Resolution Ultrawide Field
   Photolithography Instrument (operating at 100 KV, transmission rate 25 MHz current
   5 nA). After e-beam lithography, the silicon wafer was developed in 3:1
15 isopropanol:methyl isobutyl ketone solution to remove exposed regions of the
   photoresist. A 5 nm chromium layer and 20 nm gold layer were deposited on to this
   pattern followed by liftoff of the residual PMMA film in refluxing acetone. The pattern
   was transferred to the underlying silicon oxide by deep reactive ion etching with SF6/02
   plasma. The generated silicon master template was used in the fabrication of hydrogel
?0 templates.
           Fabrication of dissolvable PVA templates
           Temporary templates for producing microcapsules can be formed using polymers
   that can be dissolved in aqueous solution or in a mixture of aqueous and organic solutions
   (e.g., water and ethanol). The temperature and or pH of the solution used for template
25 dissolution can be altered, either increased or decreased from the room temperature to
   dissolve a temporary template. To form the templates used in the Examples, a clear
   poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA) solution (150% w/v in water, 5 ml) was transferred with a
   pipette onto a silicon wafer master template, or an optional intermediate template made of
   poly(dimethyl siloxane) (PDMS), (3" diameter) containing circular pillars (e.g., of 50 im
30 diameter and 70 im height). The PVA solution was evenly spread to form a thin film
                                                 15

    WO 2014/047477                                                            PCT/US2013/060987
   completely covering the master or PDMS intermediate template and kept in an oven at 70
   0C  for 30 minutes. This step resulted in the formation of a thin and mechanically strong
   PVA template. The PVA template was peeled away from the master template or PDMS
   intermediate template. The obtained PVA template was about 3" in diameter, contained
 5 circular wells (e.g., of 50 im diameter and 70 im depth). The PVA template was
   examined under a bright field reflectance microscope to determine its structural integrity.
            Fabrication of therapeutic agent-containing microparticles
            The therapeutic agent and a formulation polymer were dissolved in a suitable
   solvent to make a 10-15 % (w/v, sum weight of the therapeutic agent and the polymer)
10 drug-polymer suspension or solution. The therapeutic agent constitutes 1-30% of the
   total solids; the formulation polymer constitutes the rest of the solids in the drug-polymer
   suspension/solution. The solvent was selected based on the therapeutic agent. The
   coating polymer solution was prepared by dissolving a coating polymer in a suitable
   solvent for that polymer.
15          For example, to make brinzolamide-containing microparticles, milled or micro
   fluidized brinzolamide and PLGA (118 kDa or 115 kDa) were dissolved in
   dicholoromethane to obtain a 15% (w/v) drug-polymer suspension. The coating polymer
   solution was prepared by dissolving either 178 kDa PLGA (Akina 8520) or 180 kDa
   PLLA-20 (Akina) in dicholoromethane to reach about 5-7.5% (w/v) concentration.
?0          To make acetazolamide-containing microparticles, acetazolamide was dissolved
   in dimethylformamide (DMF) first to make a 300 mg/mL stock, and the stock was then
   homogenized into dicholoromethane anti-solvent to form acetazolamide microcrystals.
   Acetazolamide microcrystals and PLGA (65kDa) were dissolved in dicholoromethane to
   obtain a 15% (w/v) drug-polymer suspension. The coating polymer solution was
25 prepared by dissolving 109 kDa PLGA (Evonik Industries /Lakeshore Biomaterials 8515
   DLG 7E) in dicholoromethane to reach about 2% (w/v) concentration.
            Microparticles were formed using water-soluble PVA hydrogel templates
   containing circular wells of 50 [tm diameter and 70 [tm depth. First, a polymer alone
   bottom outer layer was formed by dispensing 150 tl of the coating polymer solution onto
30 the base of one or more wells in the PVA template. The coating polymer solution can be
                                                 16

    WO 2014/047477                                                            PCT/US2013/060987
   deposited on the template and a blade can be drawn across the surface of the template to
   urge the coating polymer solution into the wells and to substantially remove excess
   solution on the surface of the template between wells. Alternatively, the coating polymer
   solution can be deposited directly into the wells using a micro dispenser or by spraying.
 5 After the coating polymer solution is deposited, the dichloromethane is allowed to
   evaporate in the air for five minutes at room temperature. The depositing step can be
   repeated for a thicker outer layer. Thus, the coating polymer solution can be deposited
   one, two three or more times. However, the wells should be only partially filled during
   this process. The evaporation of solvent can occur after each depositing step, after fewer
10 than all depositing steps or after all depositing steps for the bottom outer layer have been
   completed. The solvent in the bottom outer layer should, however, be evaporated before
   material is deposited to form an inner layer.
           Next, a drug containing inner layer was formed by dispensing 150 tl of the drug
   polymer suspension onto the previously formed bottom outer layer. The drug-polymer
15 suspension was deposited on the previously formed bottom outer layer followed by
   evaporation of dichloromethane in the air for five minutes at room temperature. This step
   was repeated three to six times, a drug-polymer inner layer in the microparticle. The
   drug-polymer suspension can be deposited in the wells in same manner as the coating
   polymer solution or in a different manner (e.g., both can be deposited by spreading or one
?0 can be deposited by spreading and the other can be deposited by dispensing.
            Finally, top outer layer was formed by depostion 150 1tl   of the coating polymer
   solution onto the inner layer. The coating polymer solution was evenly spread on the
   inner layer followed by evaporation of dichloromethane in the air for five minutes at
   room temperature. Just as with formation of the bottom outer layer, this step can be
25 repeated for a thicker outer layer.
            After forming all desired layers, the PVA templates with the microparticles were
   dried at room temperature for at least 12 hours. Microparticles were then harvested by
   dissolving the templates in water at 370 C for at least 30 minutes. The microparticle
   containing suspension was filtered through a 104 micron sieve first. The filtrate was then
30 filtered by a 45 micron sieve, and the microparticles were collected on the top surface of
                                                  17

    WO 2014/047477                                                            PCT/US2013/060987
   the 45 micron sieve. The collected microparticles were freeze dried for at least 12 hours
   and then vacuum dried at 40 0 C for five days.
            In vitro drug release study
            For the in vitro brinzolamide release study, at least 5 mg of brinzolamide
 5 containing microparticles were suspended in 10 mL of phosphate buffered saline (PBS),
   and placed in a shaking water bath at 37 0 C for in vitro drug release studies. At a
   designated test point (e.g., every week after the initial incubation), the samples were
   centrifuged and 1 mL of supernatant was removed for brinzolamide analysis by high
   performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Subsequently, 8 mL of supernatant was
10 removed and discarded, and 9 mL of fresh PBS was added back to the sample.
   Appropriate corrections were made to account for drug in the 1 mL unremoved
   supernatant that carries over to the next release period. The same procedure was
   followed at each time point tested (e.g., one week, two weeks, three weeks, four weeks,
   five weeks, six weeks, seven weeks, eight weeks, nine weeks, ten weeks, eleven weeks,
15 twelve weeks, thirteen weeks, fourteen weeks, fifteen weeks, sixteen weeks) until a
   termination point was reached.
            The in vitro brinzolamide release results were presented as cumulative percent of
   the drug released in Figures 1-2. As shown in Figures 1-2, the outer layer of 178 kDa
   PLGA (Akina 8520) greatly reduced the initial burst release of brinzolamide when
?0 compared to the microparticles without such outer layers. Significantly, at two weeks,
   the cumulative release of brinzolamide from the microparticles with the polymer alone
   outer layer of 178 kDa PLGA (Akina 8520) is about 40%, while that from the
   microparticles without the outer layer is more than 80% (Figure 1). In Figure 2, a similar
   reduction in the initial burst release was observed in microparticles with an outer layer of
25 180 kDa PLLA-20 (Akina). Moreover, the microparticles with an outer layer of 178 kDa
   PLGA achieved an extended release of the drug brinzolamide over 18 weeks while
   similar microparticles without such an outer layer released 90% of the drug during the
   first three weeks (Figure 1). Similar trend of the extended drug release was observed in
   the microparticles with an outer layer of 180 kDa PLLA-20 (Figure 2).
                                                 18

    WO 2014/047477                                                            PCT/US2013/060987
           For the in vitro acetazolamide release study, at least 5 mg of acetazolamide
   containing microparticles were suspended in 1 mL PBS, and placed in a shaking water
   bath at 37 0 C for in vitro drug release studies. At a designated test point (e.g., every week
   after the initial incubation), the samples were centrifuged and 0.9 mL of supernatant was
 5 removed for acetazolamide analysis by HPLC. Subsequently, 0.9 mL of fresh PBS was
   added back to the sample. Appropriate corrections were made to account for
   acetazolamide in the unremoved 0.1 mL of solution that carries over to the next release
   period. This procedure was followed at each time point until a termination point was
   reached. The in vitro acetazolamide release results were presented as cumulative percent
10 of the drug released in Figure 3. As Figure 3 shows, a modest 2% 109kDa PLGA outer
   layer has also reduced the initial burst release of acetazolamide from the acetazolamide
   containing microparticles.
                                      OTHER EMBODIMENTS
15         It is to be understood that while the invention has been described in conjunction
   with the detailed description thereof, the foregoing description is intended to illustrate
   and not limit the scope of the invention, which is defined by the scope of the appended
   claims. Other aspects, advantages, and modifications are within the scope of the
   following claims.
                                                   19

 WO 2014/047477                                                          PCT/US2013/060987
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1.      A method for preparing a multilayer microparticle, the method comprising
        (a) forming a layer comprising a first polymer on a solid surface by depositing a
first composition one or more times on the solid surface, wherein the first composition
comprises the first polymer and a first solvent, and evaporating the first solvent in the
deposited first composition;
        (b) forming a layer comprising a second polymer and a therapeutic agent by
depositing a second composition on all or part of the layer formed in step (a), wherein the
second composition comprises the second polymer, the therapeutic agent, and a second
solvent; and evaporating the second solvent in the deposited second composition; and
        (c) forming an additional layer comprising a third polymer by depositing a third
composition one or more times on a previously formed layer, wherein the third
composition comprises the third polymer and a third solvent; and evaporating the third
solvent in the deposited third composition.
        2.       The method of claim 1, wherein the first and the third compositions do not
contain a therapeutic agent.
        3.       The method of claim 1, wherein the first and the third polymers have low
solubility in the second solvent.
        4.       The method of claim 1 wherein the second polymer has a different
molecular weight than the first polymer and the third polymer.
        5.       The method of claim 1, wherein the molecular weight of the first and the
third polymers is greater than the molecular weight of the second polymer by at least 40
kilodalton.
                                             20

 WO 2014/047477                                                        PCT/US2013/060987
        6.     The method of claim 1, wherein the molecular weight of the first and the
third polymers is greater than the molecular weight of the second polymer by at least 50
kilodalton.
        7.     The method of claim 5, wherein the first and the third polymers have a
molecular weight of 100-350 kilodalton.
        8.     The method of claim 5, wherein the second polymer has a molecular
weight of 15-150 kilodalton.
        9.     The method of claim 1, wherein the first and the third polymers are the
same polymer.
        10.    The method of claim 1, wherein the first and the third solvents are the
same solvent.
        11.    The method of claim 1, wherein the second solvent differs from the first
and third solvents.
        12.    The method of claim 1, wherein the first, second, and third polymers are
selected from the group consisting of poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), poly(lactic
acid) (PLA), poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA), poly(glycolic acid) (PGA), and poly(s
caprolactone), and poly(ortho ester).
        13.    The method of claim 1, wherein the therapeutic agent is selected from the
group consisting of a small molecule drug, a peptide drug, a protein drug, a
polysaccharide drug, an oligonucleotide, and an antibody.
        14.    The method of claim 1, wherein step (a) comprises depositing the first
composition more than once.
                                            21

 WO 2014/047477                                                         PCT/US2013/060987
        15.    The method of claim 14, wherein step (a) comprises depositing the first
composition twice and evaporating the first solvent in the first composition twice.
        16.    The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises depositing the third
composition more than once.
        17.    The method of claim 16, wherein step (c) comprises by dispensing the
third composition and evaporating the third solvent in the third composition twice.
        18.    The method of claim 1, wherein the solid surface is substantially planar.
        19.    The method of claim 1, wherein the solid surface is substantially planar
and coated.
        20.    The method of claim 1, wherein the solid surface is a base of a well.
        21.    The method of claim 20 comprising completely filling the well.
        22.    The method of claim 20 comprising partially filling the well.
        23.    The method of claim 20 comprising overfilling the well.
        24.    The method of claim 1, wherein the depositing comprises spraying using a
device that generates droplets having an average diameter less than 60 microns.
        25.    The method of claim 24, wherein the device is a microprinter.
        26.    A composition comprising one or more multilayer microparticles, wherein
the one or more multilayer microparticles comprise
                                            22

 WO 2014/047477                                                         PCT/US2013/060987
        one or more bottom layers comprising a first polymer; and
        one or more inner layers comprising a therapeutic agent and a second polymer,
and one or more top layers comprising a third polymer,
        wherein the molecular weights of the first and third polymers are greater than the
molecular weight of the second polymer.
        27.     The composition of claim 26, wherein the top and bottom layers do not
contain a therapeutic agent.
        28.     The composition of claim 26, wherein the molecular weight of the first
polymer and the third polymer is greater than the molecular weight of the second polymer
by at least 20 kilodalton.
        29.     The composition of claim 26, wherein the first and second polymers have
a molecular weight of 100-350 kilodalton.
        30.     The composition of claim 26, wherein the second polymer has a molecular
weight of 15-150 kilodalton.
        31.     The composition of claim 26, wherein the polymers are selected from the
group consisting of poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), poly(lactic acid) (PLA),
poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA), poly(glycolic acid) (PGA), poly(s-caprolactone), and
poly(ortho ester).
        32.     The composition of claim 26, wherein the therapeutic agent is selected
from the group consisting of a small molecule drug, a peptide drug, a protein drug, a
polysaccharide drug, an oligonucleotide, and an antibody.
                                            23

 WO 2014/047477                                                         PCT/US2013/060987
         33.    The composition of claim 26, wherein the multilayer microparticles are
essentially symmetrical in three dimensions and no one dimension is greater than 80
microns.
         34.    The composition of claim 26, wherein the multilayer microparticles are
symmetrical in two dimensions wherein the dimension along the longer axis of symmetry
is less than 100 microns, and the dimension along the shorter axis of symmetry is less
than 60 microns.
         35.    The composition of claim 26, wherein the composition is an implant with
a greatest linear dimension that is less than 10 mm.
         36.    The composition of claim 26, wherein the composition is an implant with
a greatest linear dimension that is less than 2 mm.
         37.    The composition of claim 26, wherein the composition is an implant with
a greatest linear dimension that is less than 500 microns.
         38.    The composition of claim 26 further comprising an excipient.
         39.    The composition of claim 26, wherein the multilayer microparticles
comprise three or more layers.
         40.    The composition of claim 26, wherein the multilayer microparticles
comprise five or more layers.
         41.    The composition of claim 26, wherein the multilayer microparticles
comprise layers of uniform thickness.
                                              24

 WO 2014/047477                                                        PCT/US2013/060987
        42.     The composition of claim 26, wherein the multilayer microparticles
comprise layers of different thickness.
        43.     The composition of claim 26, wherein the multilayer microparticles
comprise one or more layers not coincident with an adjacent layer.
        44.     The composition of claim 26, wherein the multilayer microparticles
comprise one or more layers with an opening.
        45.     The composition of claim 44, wherein the opening is ring-shaped.
        46.     The composition of claim 26 wherein the particles have two opposing
substantially parallel surfaces.
        47.     The composition of claim 26 wherein the particles are substantially
cylindrical.
                                           25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
