    A safety improvement on child strollers and prams.
    Abstract
    An improvement on child strollers and prams,
which allows the operator to push the apparatus from a
position abreast of this instead of from behind, thereby
improving the child's safety, the improvement being a
redesigned and reshaped push bar.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There are two pages of description only

    Safety improvement on child strollers and prams.
   The design of a child-stroller or pram prior to this
   invention provides for the stroller/pram to be
   pushed along with the child positioned ahead
   and in front of the operator, this latter being the
   person that pushes the stroller.
   This is an unsafe arrangement as the child            is
   positioned substantially ahead of the        operator
   whose safe control of the apparatus is in
   practice therefore significantly reduced. This
 0 invention is designed to correct this unsafe
   operation. In one embodiment of this invention,
   there is provided a metal or plastic tube or bar
   which forms part of the frame structure of a child
   stroller, and which has the effect of extending he
.5 usual push bar both laterally and frontally, thus
   providing an improved push bar. The operator
   can thus walk alongside and beside or abreast the
   stroller instead of behind it, and effect the pushing
   action upon the extension to the usual push bar.
   This extension may be purpose- built into the
.0 structure of the stroller, or else it may be a separate
   part attached to the stroller with bolts or screws by

  a suitably formed bracket. The risk to safety of the
  child is thus reduced as the stroller does not
  project ahead of the operator thereby reducing the
5 risk of the stroller being struck by a moving vehicle
  passing across its path, or by striking an obstruction
  ahead of the stroller. As the arrangement
  embodied by the invention will impart a lateral
  torque moment to the apparatus, one solution to
0 correct this will be to offset the leading wheels
  slightly in the direction of the improved push bar,
  however, other methods of direction correction
  are possible and they are not by themselves
  part of this invention.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

CLAIMS
The claims defining the invention are as follow.
1   A safety improvement allowing the stroller or
    pram to be pushed via an extended push bar
    by an operator abreast of instead of behind the
    apparatus.
2   A safety improvement as per claim 1 being a
    laterally and frontally mounted tubular push
    bar extension forming part of the structure and
    replacing the usual push-bar.
3   A safety improvement as per claim I-2but
    being of a solid bar construction.
4   A safety improvement as per claimsl-2-3 being
    made of metal.
5   A safety improvement as per claims 1-2 being
    made of plastic.
6   A safety improvement as per claims 1-2 but
    being a separately constructed and attaching
    to the stroller structure by means of a suitable
    bracket and screws or bolts to hold same in
    place.

