                                       - 54
   ABSTRACT
   Opioid Depot Formulations
 5 A depot precursor formulation comprising:
   a)     a controlled-release matrix;
   b)     at least oxygen containing organic solvent;
   c)     at least 12% by weigh of at least one active agent selected from
   buprenorphine and salts thereof, calculated as buprenorphine free base.
10 Corresponding depot compositions and methods of treatment in pain management,
   by opioid maintenance and related methods are provided.

  WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 1
                                        Opioid Formulations
       The present invention relates to formulation precursors (pre-formulations) for the in
      situ generation of controlled release opioid compositions. In particular, the
 5     invention relates to sustained release compositions and corresponding precursor
       formulations, containing at least one opioid bioactive agent, especially
       buprenorphine.
       Many bioactive agents including pharmaceuticals, nutrients, vitamins and so forth
10     have a "functional window". That is to say that there is a range of concentrations
       over which these agents can be observed to provide some biological effect. Where
       the concentration in the appropriate part of the body (e.g. locally or as demonstrated
       by serum concentration) falls below a certain level, no beneficial effect can be
       attributed to the agent. Similarly, there is generally an upper concentration level
15     above which no further benefit is derived by increasing the concentration. In some
       cases increasing the concentration above a particular level, results in undesirable or
       even dangerous effects.
       Some bioactive agents have a long biological half-life and/or a wide functional
20     window and thus may be administered occasionally, maintaining a functional
       biological concentration over a substantial period of time (e.g. 6 hours to several
       days). In other cases the rate of clearance is high and/or the functional window is
       narrow and thus to maintain a biological concentration within this window regular
       (or even continuous) doses of a small amount are required. This can be particularly
25     difficult where non-oral routes of administration (e.g. parenteral administration) are
       desirable or necessary. Furthermore, in some circumstances, such as in the fitting of
       implants (e.g. joint replacements or oral implants) the area of desired action may not
       remain accessible for repeated administration. Similarly, patient compliance may
       limit how regularly and/or how frequently administration can be made. In such
30     cases a single administration must provide active agent at a therapeutic level over
       and extended period, and in some cases over the whole period during which activity
       is needed.
       In the case of opioid active agents, the situation can be complex. Opioids
35     administered for pain relief are given only to the extent needed because of the risk of
       dependence but effective pain management often requires at least a background

   WO 2014/016428                                                           PCT/EP2013/065855
                                                - 2
        level of stable administration. Furthermore, the administrative burden in supplying
        opioids is relatively high because of the danger of diversion for illicit use. The
        facility to provide a long-acting opioid administration for use in situations where
        pain relief for several days will inevitably be necessary (e.g. post operative pain
 5      relief, relief of cancer pain and/or relief of chronic pain such as chromic back pain)
        could therefore improve the experience for the patient and reduce the burden on the
        healthcare professionals.
        The situation of administering opioids to people with any form of opioid dependence
10      is even more complex. Opioids will often be prescribed to avoid or relieve the
        symptoms of withdrawal in those with an opioid dependence, but such subjects may
        have a lifestyle that makes daily dosing by a healthcare professional difficult.
        Patient compliance may therefore be a problem with such a regime. Some
        pharmaceuticals can be supplied to the patient for self-administration but the risk of
15      diversion to illicit use is such that opioids are not typically supplied in this way. The
        dose required to provide a functional plasma concentration is relatively high in daily
        products and this makes the risk of diversion much higher.
        Various methods have been used and proposed for the sustained release of
20      biologically active agents. Such methods include slow-release, orally administered
        compositions, such as coated tablets, formulations designed for gradual absorption,
        such as transdermal patches, and slow-release implants such as "sticks" implanted
        under the skin.
25      One method by which the gradual release of a bioactive agent has been proposed is a
        so-called "depot" injection. In this method, a bioactive agent is formulated with
        carriers providing a gradual release of active agent over a period of a number of
        hours or days. These are often based upon a degrading matrix which gradually
        disperses in the body to release the active agent.
30
        A controlled-release product, especially in ready-made-up form, which is
        administrable by simple injection offers a number of potential advantages,
       particularly in the treatment and management of opioid dependence. Such a product
        could be administered under the control of a healthcare worker to minimise risk of
35      diversion but requires only a minimum imposition on that worker's time since the

  WO 2014/016428                                                         PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 3
       administration is infrequent (e.g. once a month). Ready-to-use products further do
       not require lengthy preparation.
       The most common of the established methods of depot injection relies upon a
 5     polymeric depot system. This is typically a biodegradable polymer such poly (lactic
       acid) (PLA) and/or poly (lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) and may be in the form of
       a solution in an organic solvent, a pre-polymer mixed with an initiator, encapsulated
       polymer particles or polymer microspheres. The polymer or polymer particles
       entrap the active agent and are gradually degraded releasing the agent by slow
10     diffusion and/or as the matrix is absorbed. Examples of such systems include those
       described in US 4938763, US 5480656 and US 6113943 and can result in delivery
       of active agents over a period of up to several months.
       One alternative to the more established, polymer based, depot systems was proposed
15     in US 5807573. This proposes a lipid based system of a diacylglycerol, a
       phospolipid and optionally water, glycerol, ethylene glycol or propylene glycol to
       provide an administration system in the reversed micellar "L2" phase or a cubic
       liquid crystalline phase. Since this depot system is formed from physiologically
       well tolerated diacyl glycerols and phospholipids, and does not produce the lactic
20     acid or glycolic acid degradation products of the polymeric systems, there is less
       tendency for this system to produce inflammation at the injection site. The liquid
       crystalline phases are, however, of high viscosity and the L2 phase may also be too
       viscous for ease of application. The authors of US 5807573 also do not provide any
       in vivo assessment of the release profile of the formulation and thus it is uncertain
25     whether or not a "burst" profile is provided.
       The use of non-lamellar phase structures (such as liquid crystalline phases) in the
       delivery of bioactive agents is now relatively well established. Such structures form
       when an amphiphilic compound is exposed to a solvent because the amphiphile has
30     both polar and apolar groups which cluster to form polar and apolar regions. These
       regions can effectively solubilise both polar and apolar compounds. In addition,
       many of the structures formed by amphiphiles in polar and/or apolar solvents have a
       very considerable area of polar/apolar boundary at which other amphiphilic
       compounds can be adsorbed and stabilised. Amphiphiles can also be formulated to
35     protect active agents, to at least some extent, from aggressive biological

  WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 4
       environments, including enzymes, and thereby provide advantageous control over
       active agent stability and release.
       The formation of non-lamellar regions in the amphiphile/water, amphiphile/oil and
 5     amphiphile/oil/water phase diagrams is a well known phenomenon. Such phases
       include liquid crystalline phases such as the cubic P, cubic D, cubic G and
       hexagonal phases, which are fluid at the molecular level but show significant long
       range order, and the L3 phase which comprises a multiply interconnected bi
       continuous network of bilayer sheets which are non-lamellar but lack the long-range
10     order of the liquid crystalline phases. Depending upon their curvature of the
       amphiphile sheets, these phases may be described as normal (mean curvature
       towards the apolar region) or reversed (mean curvature towards the polar region).
       The non-lamellar liquid crystalline and L3 phases are thermodynamically stable
15     systems. That is to say, they are not simply a meta-stable state that will separate
       and/or reform into layers, lamellar phases or the like, but are the stable
       thermodynamic form of the lipid/solvent mixture.
       While the effectiveness of known lipid depot formulations is high, there are certain
20     aspects in which the performance of these is less than ideal. One respect in which
       depot formulations could often be improved is in injection volume. Since the
       administration is only occasional, the absolute amount of active agent that must be
       administered is comparatively high, but the controlled-release vehicle (e.g. polymer
       or lipid depot formulation) must also be contained within the injection volume.
25     Lower injection volume provides faster and more comfortable administration and
       improves patient compliance. However, doses are typically limited by the level to
       which the active agent can be incorporated into the depot precursor mixture. It
       would therefore be a considerable advantage to provide a precursor formulation in
       which greater levels of opioid active such as buprenorphine can be contained while
30     maintaining controlled-release properties.
       As indicated above, a class of active agents having particular utility as depot or
       slow-release formulations are opioids. The term "Opioids" as used herein
       encompasses a class of naturally occurring, semi-synthetic, and fully synthetic
35     compounds which show agonistic and/or antagonistic properties for at least one
       opioid receptor. Opioids are of very great medical value, being highly effective

  WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 5
       analgesics. They are typically used for pain relief after serious injuries and/or
       medical procedures and for this use it can be of value to provide sustained dosing
       with a level or gently tapering concentration of active agent to correspond with a
       healing and recovery profile over a number of days or weeks.
 5
       Unfortunately, tolerance to, and physiological dependence upon, opioids can
       develop, and can lead to behavioural addiction, especially where fast-acting opioids
       are used and/or the drugs are abused. Furthermore, abuse of opioids is common
       because of the euphoric effects which can be caused by their sudden administration.
10     Withdrawal from opioids where dependence has developed can be unpleasant,
       especially from fast-acting opioids which are commonly abused, such as
       diacetylmorphine (heroin) or fentanyl. One approach for assisting recovering
       addicts is thus to transfer them from fast-acting opioids to slower-acting drugs which
       can be taken less frequently without causing the symptoms of withdrawal. Patients
15     may then be provided with a maintenance level of the slower-acting opioid or
       gradually weaned from this by a gently decreasing dose regime.
       Typical candidates for use as this slower-acting "opioid-replacement" drug are
       methadone and buprenorphine, and studies have shown that these can significantly
20     reduce the chances of relapse in recovering addicts. One of the advantages of these
       opioids over the abused substances is that they generally do not require
       administration so frequently in order to avoid withdrawal symptoms. Methadone,
       for example, needs to be administered daily, while the 37-hour half-life of
       buprenorphine means that a single dose is effective for 1-2 days, or longer in some
25     patients. Weekly patches of buprenorphine are also available, although at present
       these are for use in pain management rather than in curbing addiction and have
       limited bioavailability. Excess drug is therefore used and waste patches are liable for
       misuse and misdirection.
30     The two primary dosing methods for these slow-acting opioids in addiction therapy
       are "detox", in which a tapering dose is provided over a period of around 2 weeks,
       and "maintenance", in which a level dose is provided over a longer term of,
       typically, a few months. In both cases, and with any of the known opioid
       preparations, frequent administration is generally required, which in turn requires
35     on-going patient compliance. Evidently, it would be a considerable advantage to
       provide slow-release formulations which could be administered infrequently, and

  WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 6
       would provide a level, or gradually tapering, drug profile, to allow gradual detox or
       longer term maintenance without requiring frequent administration.
       Previous lipid depot formulations of buprenorphine (e.g. US 8236755) are highly
 5     effective, but provide a maximum of only around 9% buprenorphine concentration
       by weight. Polymeric systems, such as W02001/154724, have been formulated
       with up to 20% buprenorphine but there remains scope for precursor formulations
       with enhanced drag loading levels.
10     The present inventors have now established that by appropriate choice of
       components, a pre-formulation comprising certain opioid active agents, particularly
       buprenorphine, can be formulated with a greater concentration of active agent than
       demonstrated hitherto while maintaining the controlled-release effect of the
       preparation. Certain of these precursor formulations (pre-formulations) are easy to
15     manufacture, may be sterile-filtered, have low viscosity (allowing easy and less
      painful administration), allow a high bioavailability of active agent (thus allowing a
       smaller total amount of opioid to be used) and/or provide for effective dose control
       by means of control of active agent concentration and/or injection volume.
20     In a first aspect, the present invention thus a depot precursor formulation
       comprising:
       a)       a controlled-release matrix;
       b)       at least oxygen containing organic solvent;
       c)       at least 12% by weigh of at least one active agent selected from
25     buprenorphine and salts thereof, calculated as buprenorphine free base.
       Such a depot precursor will typically form a depot composition in situ upon
       administration to the body of a subject. In the case of formulations comprising a
       lipid controlled-release matrix, this will typically be by uptake of aqueous fluid to
30     form a structured (e.g. liquid crystal) phase. In the case of a polymer-based
       controlled-release matrix component the depot will generally be formed by loss of
       solvent.
       Suitable controlled-release matrices thus include lipid controlled release
35     formulations (as described herein) and polymeric release matrix systems (as
       described herein).

   WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                               - 7
        The high-loading depot precursor formulations of the present invention (as well as
        the other corresponding aspects) will typically comprise greater than 15% (e.g. 15 to
        50%) by weight of active agent, preferably at least 21% and more preferably at least
 5      25% by weight. Greater than 30% by weight is particularly preferred. Active agents
        will generally be buprenorphine or salts thereof as indicated herein.
        In a second aspect, the present invention also provides a depot composition formed
        or formable from any of the depot precursor formulations described herein. Such a
10      depot composition may comprise:
        a)      a controlled-release matrix;
        b)      optionally at least one oxygen containing organic solvent;
        c)      at least 12% of at least one active agent selected from buprenorphine and
15              salts thereof
        d)      optionally at least one aqueous fluid.
        Such a depot composition will typically be formed upon exposure of a precursor
        formulation of the present invention (such as any precursor formulation in any
20      embodiment or preferred embodiment described herein) to an aqueous fluid in vivo.
        Exposure to such an aqueous fluid will generally result in a loss of solvent and/or an
        addition of water to the precursor formulation and may result in a phase change such
        as from solution to solid (a precipitation) or from a low-viscosity phase, such as a
        solution or L2 phase to a high viscosity phase such as a liquid crystalline phase.
25
        In a further aspect of the invention, there is also provided a method of sustained
        delivery of buprenorphine to a human or non-human animal body, said method
        comprising administering a depot precursor formulation comprising:
30      a)      a controlled-release matrix;
        b)      at least oxygen containing organic solvent;
        c)      at least 12% of at leastone active agent selected from buprenorphine and salts
        thereof.
35      Preferably, the precursor formulation (pre-formulation) administered in such a
        method is a pre-formulation of the invention as described herein.

  WO 2014/016428                                                           PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 8
       The method of administration suitable for the above method of the invention will be
       a method appropriate for the condition to be treated or addressed. A parenteral
       depot will thus be formed by parenteral (e.g. subcutaneous or intramuscular)
 5     administration. A bioadhesive non-parenteral (e.g. topical) depot composition may
       be formed by administration to the surface of skin, mucous membranes and/or nails,
       to ophthalmological, nasal, oral or internal surfaces or to cavities such as nasal,
       rectal, vaginal or buccal cavities, the periodontal pocket or cavities formed
       following extraction of a natural or implanted structure or prior to insertion of an
10     implant (e.g a joint, stent, cosmetic implant, tooth, tooth filling or other implant).
       Since the key medicinal properties of opioids are analgesia and use in detoxification
       and/or maintenance from opioid dependence, the formulations will typically be for
       systemic absorption, although topical pain relief can be provided by opioids and
15     they are additionally of value in cough suppression (especially codeine and
       hydrocodone), diarrhoea suppression, anxiety due to shortness of breath (especially
       oxymorphone) and antidepression (especially buprenorphine). For these,
       appropriate administration methods, such as bioadhesive pain-relieving gels for
       topical pain, or non-absorbed oral compositions for diarrhoea suppression may be
20     used.
       In a further aspect, the present invention also provides a method for the formation of
       a depot composition comprising exposing a precursor formulation comprising:
       a)       a controlled-release matrix;
25     b)       at least oxygen containing organic solvent;
       c)       at least 12% by weight of at least one active agent selected from
       buprenorphine and salts thereof.
        to an aqueous fluid in vivo.
30     Suitable aqueous fluids are particularly body fluids as indicated herein. Preferably
       the pre-formulation administered is a pre-formulation of the present invention as
       described herein and more preferably a preferred formulation according to the
      present invention. The exposure to a fluid "in vivo" may evidently be internally
       within the body or a body cavity, or may be at a body surface such as a skin surface,
35     depending upon the nature of the composition.

  WO 2014/016428                                                           PCTIEP2013/065855
                                               - 9
       In a still further aspect the present invention provides a process for the formation of
       a precursor formulation suitable for the administration of an opioid bioactive agent
       to a (preferably mammalian) subject, said process comprising forming a mixture of
       a)        a controlled-release matrix; and
 5     b)        at least one oxygen containing organic solvent;
       and dissolving or dispersing at least 12% by weight of at least one buprenorphine in
       the mixture, or in at least one of components a, or b prior to forming the low
       viscosity mixture. Preferably the pre-formulation so-formed is a formulation of the
       invention as described herein. The process may additionally comprise sterilisation,
10     such as by sterile filtration.
       In a still further aspect, the present invention additionally provides for a method of
       treatment or prophylaxis of a human or non-human animal subject comprising
       administration of a precursor formulation as described herein. Such a method may
15     be for the treatment of pain or for the treatment of drug dependence (typically opioid
       dependence) by detoxification and/or maintenance as described herein.
       As used herein, the term "low viscosity mixture" is used to indicate a mixture which
       may be readily administered to a subject and in particular readily administered by
20     means of a standard syringe and needle arrangement. This may be indicated, for
       example by the ability to be dispensed from a I ml disposable syringe through a 23
       gauge (22 AWG / 0.635 mm diameter) needle by manual pressure. In a further
      preferred embodiment, the low viscosity mixture should be a mixture capable of
       passing through a standard sterile filtration membrane such as a 0.22 pm syringe
25     filter. In other preferred embodiments, a similar functional definition of a suitable
       viscosity can be defined as the viscosity of a pre-formulation that can be sprayed
       using a compression pump or pressurized spray device using conventional spray
      equipment. A typical range of suitable viscosities would be, for example, 0.1 to
       5000 mPas, preferably I to lOOOmPas at 2 0 "C (e.g. 10 to 1000 mPas or 50 to 1000
30     mPas at 2 0 *C).
       It has been observed that by the addition of small amounts of low viscosity solvent,
       as indicated herein, a very significant change in viscosity can be provided,
       particularly for lipid formulations (as described herein). As indicated in Example 11
35     below, for example, the addition of only 5% solvent (in the case of Example 11,
       ethanol) can reduce viscosity of a lipid mixture by several orders of magnitude.

   WO 2014/016428                                                            PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 10
        Addition of 10% solvent will cause a still greater effect. In order to achieve this
        non-linear, synergistic effect, in lowering viscosity it is important that a solvent of
        appropriately low viscosity and suitable polarity be employed. Such solvents
        include those described herein infra.
 5
        Particularly preferred examples of low viscosity mixtures are molecular solutions (of
        both polymer depot precursor formulations and lipid precursor formulations),
        suspensions of microbeads (of polymer matrices) and/or isotropic phases such as L2
        and/or L3 phases (of lipid precursor formulations). As describe above, the LI is a
10      non-lamellar phase of interconnected sheets which has some phase structure but
        lacks the long-range order of a liquid crystalline phase. Unlike liquid crystalline
        phases, which are generally highly viscous, L3 phases are of lower viscosity.
        Obviously, mixtures of L3 phase and molecular solution and/or particles of L3 phase
        suspended in a bulk molecular solution of one or more components are also suitable.
15      The L2 phase is the so-called "reversed micellar" phase or microemulsion. Most
        preferred low viscosity mixtures are molecular solutions, L3 phases and mixtures
        thereof. L2 phases are less preferred, except in the case of swollen L2 phases as
        described herein.
20      The present invention provides a pre-formulation comprising components a, b and at
        least 12% of at least one opioid bioactive agent as indicated herein. In one
        particularly preferred embodiment, the controlled release matrix component a)
        comprises a lipid controlled release formulation. Such a formulation will preferably
        comprise:
25
        i)      at least one neutral diacyl and/or triacyl lipid and/or a tocopherol; and
        ii)     at least one phospholipid;
        A preferably embodiment of this will be:
30
        i)      at least one neutral diacyl lipid and/or a tocopherol; and
        ii)     at least one phospholipid;
        One of the considerable advantages of the lipid precursor formulations of the
35      invention is that components i) and ii) may be formulated in a wide range of
        proportions. In particular, it is possible to prepare and use pre-formulations of the

   WO 2014/016428                                                           PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 11
        present invention having a much greater proportion of phospholipid to neutral,
        diacyl lipid and/or tocopherol than was previously achievable without risking phase
        separation and/or unacceptably high viscosities in the pre-formulation. The weight
        ratios of components i):ii) may thus be anything from 5:95 right up to 95:5.
 5      Preferred ratios would generally be from 90:10 to 20:80 and more preferably from
        85:15 to 30:70. A highly suitable range is i):ii) in the ratio 40:60 to 80:20,
        especially around 50:50, e.g. 45:55 to 60:40. In one preferred embodiment of the
        invention, there is a greater proportion of component ii) than component i). That is,
        the weight ratio i):ii) is below 50:50, e.g. 48:52 to 2:98, preferably, 40:60 to 10:90
10      and more preferably 35:65 to 20:80. In an alternative and highly valuable
        embodiment, there may be an equal or greater amount of component i) in
        comparison with component ii). In such an embodiment, there may be, for example,
        a weight ratio of 50:50 to 80:20 of components i) to ii). A ratio of 50:50 to 70:30
        may also be suitable.
15
        Corresponding to the above, the amount of component i) in the precursor
        formulations may be, for example, 10% to 90% (e.g. 18 to 90%) by weight of the
        total formulation, preferably 10% to 70%, such as 12% to 40% or 12% to 30% by
        weight of the total formulation. In one embodiment, the absolute amount of
20      component i) by weight is no less than the amount of component ii).
        Similarly, the amount of component ii) in the precursor formulations may be, for
        example, 8% to 90% (e.g. 18 to 90%) by weight of the total formulation, preferably
        8% to 70%, such as 10% to 40% or 10% to 30% by weight of the total formulation.
25
        The total amount of component a) in the formulation will typically be 20 to 70%,
        such as 30 to 60 wt% based upon the weight of the total formulation.
        In an alternative embodiment of the invention, component a) may comprise at least
30      one polymer release matrix. Such matrices are typically biodegradable polymers.
        Such polymers are well known in the art and may be homopolymers, mixtures of
        homopolymers, copolymers, mixtures of copolymers and/or mixtures of
       homopolymers and copolymers. Polyesters and/or polyamides are particularly
        suitable, of which biodegradable polyesters are preferred. Examples of suitable
35      polyesters include polylactate, polyglycolate, polylactate-co-glycolate

   WO 2014/016428                                                           PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 12
        (polylactate/glycolate copolymer) and mixtures thereof. Polylactate-co-glycolate
        (PLGA) is particularly suitable.
        Polymers may be in the form of a solution or may be used as microspheres
 5      (microbeads) in suspension. PLGA microspheres are one preferred embodiment.
        The amount of component b in the pre-formulations of the invention will be at least
       sufficient to provide a low viscosity mixture (e.g. a molecular solution, see above) of
        components a, b and the buprenorphine active, and will be easily determined for any
10      particular combination of components by standard methods. The phase behaviour of
        lipid formulations may be analysed by techniques such as visual observation in
        combination with polarized light microscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance, x-ray or
        neutron diffraction, and cryo-transmission electron microscopy (cryo-TEM) to look
        for solutions, L2 or L3 phases, or liquid crystalline phases. Viscosity may be
15      measured directly by standard means. As described above, an appropriate practical
        viscosity is that which can effectively be syringed and particularly sterile filtered.
        This will be assessed easily as indicated herein.
        A key feature of the present invention is the facility to incorporate a higher level of
20      buprenorphine active agent (eg, buprenorphine or a salt thereof) than has been
        observed previously. The present inventors have observed that the capability of a
        low-viscosity mixture to contain buprenorphine active agent is greatly enhanced by
        the inclusion of at least one amide solvent in component b). Correspondingly,
        component b) preferably comprises at least one amide. As a comparison, for
25      example, a lipid formulation prepared with ethanol as component b) can typically
        dissolve up to 9% of buprenorphine active agent. When an amide solvent such as
        NMP is utilised, this can increase to 35% or greater while maintaining a valuable
        release profile. Particularly preferred amide compounds which may be comprised in
        component b) include N-Methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) dimethyl formamide (DMF)
30      and dimethyl acetamide (DMA). NMP is most preferred.
        The weight of solvent component b incorporated into the precursor formulation will
        depend crucially upon the type of sustained release formulation a) that is in use. For
        example, a polymeric sustained release formulation in solution might require the
35      solvent to be present at 40 to 70% by weight in order to ensure a sufficiently low
        viscosity and full solubilisation. In contrast, the solvent level typically used for a

   WO 2014/016428                                                           PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 13
        lipid-based controlled release formulation would generally be around 0.5 to 50% of
        the total weight of the precursor formulation. For the high loading compositions of
        the present invention, this proportion is preferably (especially for injectable depots)
        20 to 40% and more preferably 20 to 38% or 25 to 35% by weight. A highly
 5      suitable range is around 30%, e.g. 15 to 45%, especially, 10 to 30% or 10 to 40% by
        weight of the complete composition. Thus, overall, a solvent level of I to    5 0 %1of
        the total precursor formulation weight is appropriate and suitable ranges for each
        embodiment will be clear to those with experience in the art. In one embodiment, a
        precursor formulation and corresponding depot & method are provided in which the
10      administration period is one dose each month and the solvent content is 30%± 10%.
        Component "i)' as indicated herein is a neutral lipid component comprising a polar
        "head" group and also non-polar "tail" groups. Generally the head and tail portions
        of the lipid will be joined by an ester moiety but this attachment may be by means of
15      an ether, an amide, a carbon-carbon bond or other attachment. Preferred polar head
        groups are non-ionic and include polyols such as glycerol, diglycerol and sugar
        moieties (such as inositol and glucosyl based moieties); and esters of polyols, such
        as acetate or succinate esters. Preferred polar groups are glycerol and diglycerol,
        especially glycerol.
20
        Diacyl glycerols of component i) will comprise glycerol and two acyl chains as
        indicated herein. Correspondingly, triacyl glycerols are preferred triacyl lipids and
        they will comprise a glycerol "head" group and three independently chosen acyl
        chains as indicated herein. Preferred aspects as indicated herein will apply
25      correspondingly.
        In one preferred aspect, component i) is a diacyl lipid in that it has two non-polar
        "tail" groups. This is generally preferable to the use of mono-acyl ("lyso") lipids
        because these are typically less well tolerated in vivo. The two non-polar groups
30      may have the same or a differing number of carbon atoms and may each
        independently be saturated or unsaturated. Examples of non-polar groups include
        C6 -C 32 alkyl and alkenyl groups, which are typically present as the esters of long
        chain carboxylic acids. These are often described by reference to the number of
        carbon atoms and the number of unsaturations in the carbon chain. Thus, CX:Z
35      indicates a hydrocarbon chain having X carbon atoms and Z unsaturations.
        Examples particularly include caproyl (C6:0), capryloyl (C8:0), capryl (C 10:0),

  WO 2014/016428                                                             PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 14
       lauroyl (C 12:0), myristoyl (C14:0), palmitoyl (C16:0), phytanoly (C16:0),
       palmitoleoyl (C16:1), stearoyl (C18:0), oleoyl (C18:1), elaidoyl (C 18:1), linoleoyl
       (C18:2), linolenoyl (C18:3), arachidonoyl (C20:4), behenoyl (C22:0) and
       lignoceroyl (C24:9) groups. Thus, typical non-polar chains are based on the fatty
 5     acids of natural ester lipids, including caproic, caprylic, capric, lauric, myristic,
       palmitic, phytanic, palmitolic, stearic, oleic, elaidic, linoleic, linolenic, arachidonic,
       behenic or lignoceric acids, or the corresponding alcohols. Preferable non-polar
       chains are palmitic, stearic, oleic and linoleic acids, particularly oleic acid. In one
       preferred embodiment, component i) comprises components with C 16 to C18 alkyl
10     groups, particularly such groups having zero, one or two unsaturations. In
       particular, component i) may comprise at least 50% of components having such
       alkyl groups.
       The diacyl lipid, when used as all or part of component "i)", may be synthetic or
15     may be derived from a purified and/or chemically modified natural sources such as
       vegetable oils. Mixtures of any number of diacyl lipids may be used as component
       i). Most preferably this component will include at least a portion of diacyl glycerol
       (DAG), especially glycerol dioleate (GDO). In one favoured embodiment,
       component i) consists of DAGs. These may be a single DAG or a mixture of DAGs.
20     A highly preferred example is DAG comprising at least 50%, preferably at least
       80% and even comprising substantially 100% GDO.
       An alternative or additional highly preferred class of compounds for use as all or
       part of component i) are tocopherols. As used herein, the term "a tocopherol" is
25     used to indicate the non-ionic lipid tocopherol, often known as vitamin E, and/or any
       suitable salts and/or analogues thereof Suitable analogues will be those providing
       the phase-behaviour, lack of toxicity, and phase change upon exposure to aqueous
       fluids, which characterise the compositions of the present invention. Such
       analogues will generally not form liquid crystalline phase structures as a pure
30     compound in water. The most preferred of the tocopherols is tocopherol itself,
       having the structure below. Evidently, particularly where this is purified from a
       natural source, there may be a small proportion of non-tocopherol "contaminant" but
       this will not be sufficient to alter the advantageous phase-behaviour or lack of
       toxicity. Typically, a tocopherol will contain no more than 10% of non-tocopherol
35     analogue compounds, preferably no more than 5% and most preferably no more than
       2% by weight.

   WO 2014/016428                                                        PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 15
         HO1)
        Tocopherol
 5      In one embodiment of the invention, component i) consists essentially of
        tocopherols, in particular tocopherol as shown above.
        A preferred combination of constituents for component i) is a mixture of at least one
        DAG (e.g. at least one C16 to C18 DAG, such as GDO) with at least one tocopherol.
        Such mixtures include 2:98 to 98:2 by weight tocopherol:GDO, e.g.10:90 to 90:10
10      tocopherol:GDO and especially 20:80 to 80:20 of these compounds. Similar
        mixtures of tocopherol with other DAGs are also suitable.
        Component "ii)" in lipid embodiments of the present invention is at least one
        phospholipid. As with component i), this component comprises a polar head group
15      and at least one non-polar tail group. The difference between components i) and ii)
        lies principally in the polar group. The non-polar portions may thus suitably be
        derived from the fatty acids or corresponding alcohols considered above for
        component i). In particular C 16 to C 18 acyl groups having zero, one or two
        unsaturations are highly suitable as moieties forming the non-polar group of the
20      compounds of component ii). It will typically be the case that the phospholipid will
        contain two non-polar groups, although one or more constituents of this component
        may have one non-polar moiety. Where more than one non-polar group is present
        these may be the same or different.
25      Preferred phospholipid polar "head" groups include phosphatidylcholine (PC),
        phosphatidylethanolamine(PE), phosphatidylserine(PS) and
        phosphatidylinositol(PI). PC and PE are preferred lipids, both individually and as a
        mixture. In one embodiment, component b) may comprise at least 70% PC, PE or
        mixtures thereof. Most preferred is phosphatidylcholine (PC). In a preferred
30      embodiment, component ii) thus comprises at least 50% PC, preferably at least 70%
        PC and most preferably at least 80% PC. Component ii) may consist essentially of
        PC.

   WO 2014/016428                                                            PCTIEP2013/065855
                                               - 16
        The phospholipid portion, even more suitably than any diacyl lipid portion, may be
        derived from a natural source. Suitable sources of phospholipids include egg, heart
        (e.g. bovine), brain, liver (e.g. bovine) and plant sources including soybean. Such
        sources may provide one or more constituents of component ii), which may
 5      comprise any mixture of phospholipids.
        Since the pre-formulations of the invention are to be administered to a subject for
        the controlled release of an active agent, it is preferable that the components i) and
        ii), as well as any alternative controlled release matrix are biocompatible. In this
10      regard, it is preferable to use, for example, diacyl lipids and phospholipids rather
        than mono-acyl (lyso) compounds. A notable exception to this is tocopherol, as
        described above. Although having only one alkyl chain, this is not a "lyso" lipid in
        the convention sense. The nature of tocopherol as a well tolerated essential vitamin
        evidently makes it highly suitable in biocompatibility.
15
        It is furthermore most preferable that the lipids and phospholipids of components i)
        and ii) are naturally occurring (whether they are derived from a natural source or are
        of synthetic origin). Naturally occurring lipids tend to cause lesser amounts of
        inflammation and reaction from the body of the subject. Not only is this more
20      comfortable for the subject but it may increase the residence time of the resulting
        depot composition, especially for parenteral depots, since less immune system
        activity is recruited to the administration site. In certain cases it may, however, be
        desirable to include a portion of a non-naturally-occurring lipid in components i)
        and/or ii). This might be, for example an "ether lipid" in which the head and tail
25      groups are joined by an ether bond rather than an ester. Such non-naturally
        occurring lipids may be used, for example, to alter the rate of degradation of the
        resulting depot-composition by having a greater or lesser solubility or vulnerability
        to breakdown mechanisms present at the site of active agent release. Although all
        proportions fall within the scope of the present invention, generally, at least 50% of
30      each of components i) and ii) will be naturally occurring lipids. This will preferably
        be at least 75% and may be up to substantially 100%.
        Two particularly preferred combinations of components i) and ii) are GDO with PC
        and tocopherol with PC, especially in the region 10-30 wt% GDO/tocopherol, 5-25
35      wt% PC and 20-40% solvent (especially comprising NMP). A composition of 15
        25% GDO, 10-25% PC, with 20-35%, preferably 25-32% solvent (e.g. NMP and

   WO 2014/016428                                                           PCTIEP2013/065855
                                                - 17
        optionally at least one of ethanol, benzyl alcohol, propylene glycol, benzyl benzoate,
        dimethylsulphoxide etc) and 12-45% (e.g. 31 to 40%), preferably 15-40% of at least
        one opioid active agent is particularly effective. A ratio of PC/GDO: -0.25-1.5,
        preferably 0.6-1.2 is desirable in many cases (including other embodiments
 5      indicated herein).
        In addition to amphiphilic components i) and ii), lipid-based pre-formulations of the
        invention may also contain additional amphiphilic components at relatively low
        levels. In one embodiment of the invention, the pre-formulation contains up to 10%
10      (by weight of components i) and ii)) of a charged amphiphile, particularly an anionic
        amphiphile such as a fatty acid. Preferred fatty acids for this purpose include
        caproic, caprylic, capric, lauric, myristic, palmitic, phytanic, palmitolic, stearic,
        oleic, elaidic, linoleic, linolenic, arachidonic, bebenic or lignoceric acids, or the
        corresponding alcohols. Preferable fatty acids are palmitic, stearic, oleic and
15      linoleic acids, particularly oleic acid. The formulations of the invention comprising
        diacyl lipids may also contain up to 10% of an optional triacyl glycerol, such as
        those described herein.
        Component "b" of the pre-formulations of the invention is an oxygen containing
20      organic solvent. Since the pre-formulation is to generate a depot composition
        following administration (e.g. in vivo), upon contact with an aqueous fluid, it is
        desirable that this solvent be tolerable to the subject and be capable of mixing with
        the aqueous fluid, and/or diffusing or dissolving out of the pre-formulation into the
        aqueous fluid. Solvents having at least moderate water solubility are thus preferred.
25
        Typical solvents suitable for use as component b) include at least one solvent
        selected from alcohols, ketones, esters (including lactones), ethers, amides
        (including lactams) and sulphoxides. Examples of suitable alcohols include ethanol,
        isopropanol, benzylalcohol and glycerol formal. Monools are preferred to diols and
30      polyols. Where diols or polyols are used, this is preferably in combination with an
        at least equal amount of monool or other preferred solvent. Examples of ketones
        include acetone and propylene carbonate. Suitable ethers include diethylether,
        glycofurol, diethylene glycol monoethyl ether, dimethylisobarbide, and polyethylene
        glycols. Suitable esters include ethyl acetate, benzyl benzoate and isopropyl acetate
35      and dimethyl sulphide is as suitable sulphide solvent. Suitable aides and
        sulphoxides include dimethylacetamide (DMA), n-methyl pyrrolidone (NMP), 2-

  WO 2014/016428                                                         PCTIEP2013/065855
                                            - 18
       pyrrolidone and dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO). Less preferred solvents include
       dimethyl isosorbide, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, diglyme and ethyl lactate. The high
       loading nature of the precursor formulations is believed to be enabled or enhanced
       by the presence of at least one amide solvent. NMP is a highly preferred solvent for
 5     use in combination with buprenorphine. In one embodiment, component b)
       therefore comprises NMP and may comprise at least 50% or at least 70% NMP.
       Component b) may consist essentially of (e.g>95%) or consist ofNMP. NMP and
       ethanol is a further preferred combination and component b) may comprise or
       consist of a mixture of NMP and ethanol.
10
       Since the pre-formulations are to be administered to a living subject, it is necessary
       that the solvent component b) is sufficiently biocompatible. The degree of this
       biocompatibility will depend upon the application method and the volume injected.
       Furthermore, since component b) may be any mixture of solvents, a certain amount
15     of a solvent that would not be acceptable in large quantities may evidently be
      present. Overall, however, the solvent or mixture forming component b) must not
       provoke unacceptable reactions from the subject upon administration. Generally
       such solvents will be hydrocarbons or preferably oxygen containing hydrocarbons,
       both optionally with other substituents such as nitrogen containing groups. It is
20     preferable that little or none of component b) contains halogen substituted
       hydrocarbons since these tend to have lower biocompatibility Where a portion of
       halogenated solvent such as dichloromethane or chloroform is necessary, this
       proportion will generally be minimised. Where the depot composition is to be
       formed non-parenterally a greater range of solvents may evidently be used than
25     where the depot is to be parenteral.
       Component b) as used herein may be a single solvent or a mixture of suitable
       solvents but will generally be of low viscosity. This is important because one of the
       key aspects of the present invention is that it provides preformulations that are of
30     low viscosity and one primary role of a suitable solvent is to reduce this viscosity.
       This reduction will be a combination of the effect of the lower viscosity of the
       solvent and the effect of the molecular interactions between solvent and controlled
       release formulation, such as the polymer or lipid composition. One observation of
       the present inventors is that the oxygen-containing solvents of low viscosity
35     described herein have highly advantageous and unexpected molecular interactions

   WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 19
        with the lipid parts of the composition, thereby providing a non-linear reduction in
        viscosity with the addition of a small volume of solvent.
        The viscosity of the "low viscosity" solvent component b) (single solvent or
 5      mixture) should typically be no more than 18 mPas at 20"C. This is preferably no
        more than 15 mPas, more preferably no more than 10 mPas and most preferably no
        more than 7 mPas at 20*C.
        The solvent component b) will generally be at least partially lost upon in vivo
10      formation of the depot composition, or diluted by absorption of water from the
        surrounding air and/or tissue. It is preferable, therefore, that component b) be at
        least to some extent water miscible and/or dispersible and at least should not repel
        water to the extent that water absorption is prevented. In this respect also, oxygen
        containing solvents with relatively small numbers of carbon atoms (for example up
15      to 10 carbons, preferably up to 8 carbons) are preferred. Obviously, where more
        oxygens are present a solvent will tend to remain soluble in water with a larger
        number of carbon atoms. The carbon to heteroatom (e.g. N, 0, preferably oxygen)
        ratio will thus often be around 1:1 to 6:1, preferably 2:1 to 4:1. Where a solvent
        with a ratio outside one of these preferred ranges is used then this will preferably be
20      no more than 75%, preferably no more than 50%, in combination with a preferred
        solvent (such as ethanol). This may be used, for example to decrease the rate of
        evaporation of the solvent from the pre-formulation in order to control the rate of
        liquid crystalline depot formation.
25      The pre-formulations of the present invention typically do not contain significant
        amounts of water. Since it is essentially impossible to remove every trace of water
        from a lipid composition, this is to be taken as indicating that only such minimal
        trace of water exists as cannot readily be removed. Such an amount will generally
        be less than 1%by weight, preferably less than 0.5% by the weight of the pre
30      formulation. In one preferred aspect, the pre-formulations of the invention do not
        contain glycerol, ethylene glycol or propylene glycol and contain no more than a
        trace of water, as just described.
        There is, however, a certain embodiment of the present invention in which higher
35      proportions of water may be tolerated. This is where water is present as a part of the
        solvent component in combination with an additional water-miscible component b

  WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 20
       (single solvent or mixture). In this embodiment, up to 15 wt% water may be present
       providing that at least 3 wt%, preferably at least 5% and more preferably at least 7
       wt% component b is also present, that component b is water miscible, and that the
       resulting preformulation remains non-viscous and thus does not form a liquid
 5     crystalline phase. Generally there will be a greater amount of component b) by
       weight than the weight of water included in the preformulation. Most suitable
       solvents of use with water in this aspect of the invention include ethanol, isopropyl
       alcohol and NMP.
10     A key aspect of the present invention is that high loadings of BUP may be used to
       reduce the injection volume necessary for a particular dose of buprenorphine (BUP).
       In one embodiment, the compositions of the present invention thus contain at least
       140 mg/mL (e.g. 140 to 500 mg/mL)of buprenorphine, preferably at least 200
       mg/mL and more preferably at least 300 mg/mL. A loading level of at least 340
15     mg/mL is possible and advantageous in reducing injection volumes.
       The pre-formulations of the present invention contain one or more buprenorphine
       bioactive agents (described equivalently as bioactivee agents", "opioid active
       agents" or simply "active agents" herein). Active agents may be any suitably
20     biotolerable form of any buprenorphine compound having an effect (e.g. agonism
       and/or antagonism) at one or more opioid receptors. Buprenorphine free base is the
       most preferred buprenorphine active agent and where weight percentages are
       specified herein, these are in terms of the equivalent amount of buprenorphine free
       base unless otherwise specified. Suitable salts, including mixtures thereof, may be
25     used and these salts may be any biocompatible salt. Suitable salts include acetate,
       citrate, pamoate or halide (e.g. chloride or bromide) salts, or any of the many
       biocompatible salts which are known in the art.
       Buprenorphine is an opioid with mixed agonist-antagonist properties (also konwn as
       a partial agonist) that has been used in the treatment of opioid dependence in a
30     number of countries. It is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for
       the treatment of opioid dependence in the United States and clinical studies have
       shown buprenorphine to be effective in reducing opioid-positive urines and retaining
       patients in outpatient maintenance treatment of opioid dependence, as well as in the
       detoxification of opioid abusers.
35

   WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              -21
        Buprenorphine has a unique pharmacological profile with several potential strengths
        over other opioid treatments:
        1       A ceiling on its agonist activity that may reduce its abuse liability and
 5      contribute to a superior safety profile.
        2.      Attenuation of physiological and subjective effects which likely contributes
        to the suppression of opioid self-administration.
10      3.      Slow receptor dissociation providing extended duration.
        Importantly, buprenorphine treatment is associated with a relatively low-intensity
        withdrawal syndrome upon discontinuation, making it particularly promising for
        detoxification treatments.
15
        Buprenorphine is currently available in sublingual dosing forms, which require
        dosing every 1-2 days either at a clinic, or with "take-home" medication. Because of
        the potential for abuse of opioids, however, "take-home" of any opioid poses
        potential logistic and legislative problems. This is made more problematic by the
20      low bioavailability of existing sublingual formulations meaning that the dose being
        "taken home" is potentially quite a significant one.
        A depot formulation of the present invention offers several advantages in use for
        treating opioid dependence, including fast onset and relatively stable levels of
25      buprenorphine over time, thereby suppressing withdrawal symptoms and blocking
        the effects of exogenously-administered opioids for several weeks. The slow decay
        and elimination of the depot buprenorphine could also provide a gradual opioid
        detoxification with minimal withdrawal syndrome. Hence, a buprenorphine depot
        may offer a promising approach for delivering effective opioid maintenance or
30      detoxification treatment. Furthermore, a depot formulation should minimize the
        burdens of patient compliance as it would require a less frequent dosing regimen,
        thereby also reducing the frequency of clinic visits and the amount of clinical
        support needed. Finally, depot buprenorphine should reduce the risks of misuse and
        drug diversion of the medication by eliminating or reducing the need for take-home
35      medication.

  WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                            - 22
       In one embodiment of the present invention, the bioavailability of buprenorphine as
       measured from time zero to time of last measurement and extrapolated to infinity for
       a single dose, or between two consecutive doses at steady state, as the area under the
       curve of human plasma concentration against time is no less than 3 hours * ng/mL
 5     per mg, preferably no less than 5 hours * ng/ml per mg of administered
       buprenorphine, preferably no less than 7 and more preferably no less than 10 h
       ng/ml per mg of administered buprenorphine. This compares with less than 3 hour
       ng/ml per mg administered by current sublingual formulations.
10     Current sublingual formulations include Subutex@ and Suboxone@. Both are
       sublingual tablets approved by the FDA for the treatment of opioid addiction.
       Subutex contains only buprenorphine hydrochloride as active agent. This
       formulation was developed as the initial product. The second medication, Suboxone
       also contains naloxone to guard against misuse. Subutex is typically given during
15     the first few days of treatment, while Suboxone is used during the maintenance
       phase of treatment. Both of these products contain a relatively large dose of
       buprenorphine because of their relatively low bioavailability. Thus, there is a risk of
      diversion of these products, especially since they are often prescribed for self
       administration. These FDA approved products are: Subutex (bitter sublingual, no
20     active additives; in 2 mg and 8 mg dosages) and Suboxone (Lemon-lime flavored
       sublingual, one part naloxone for every four parts buprenorphine; hexagon shaped
       tablet in 2 mg and 8 mg dosages). The existing Suboxone product is also available
       in a clinically interchangeable "sublingual film" formulation. This film product
       remains a once-daily dosage product and although it produces a somewhat higher
25     Cmax than the sublingual tablet, the plasma profile and bioavailability are very
       similar to the tablet. The film product is thus available in the same 8 mg and 2 mg
       dosages as the sublingual tablet product.
       The precursor formulations and all corresponding aspects of the present invention
30     may be formulated with buprenorphine as the sole active agent. However, in one
       embodiment, the various formulations of the invention may be prepared as
       combination medicaments (e.g. with other opioid agonists and/or antagonists). For
       example, naloxone may be formulated with buprenorphine (e.g. at between 1:1 and
       10:1 buprenorphine: naloxone by wt). Other opioids may similarly be formulated
35     with the buprenorphine active agent of the present invention. This will apply
       particularly to precursor formulations intended for pain control such as by analgesia.

  WO 2014/016428                                                         PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 23
       A further key aspect of the present invention is the comparatively low Cmax (peak
       plasma concentration) in comparison with the dose administered and the period over
       which the drug is effective. It can be seen, for example, in Figure 4a and 4b that
 5     administration of 16 mg of buprenorphine as Subutex gives a Cmax concentration of
       6 ng/mL but is cleared to around 0.5 ng/mL in less than 24 hours. In comparison, a
       15 mg dose administered as a formulation of the present invention peaks with a
       Cmax of around 3.5 and remains at around 0.9 ng.mL at 7-days following
       administration.
10
       Thus in a further preferred aspect, the compositions of the present invention provide
       a Cmax (maximum concentration) in human blood plasma after a single
       administration of no more than 0.3 ng/ml per mg of administered buprenorphine.
       This will preferably be no more than 0.22 ng/mL per mg of buprenorphine
15     administered and more preferably no more than 0.17 ng/mL per mg administered. It
       can be seen in comparison that Subutex gives a peak concentration of at least around
       0.4 ng/mL per mg of buprenorphine administered.
       A still further advantage of the compositions of the present invention is the linearity
20     of the AUC dose experienced by the subject in comparison with the administered
       dose of buprenorphine. This may be seen from Figure 6 and allows the physician to
       control the experienced dose directly by control of the administered dose in a linear
       relationship. It can furthermore be seen that Cmax is additionally observed to vary
       linearly with administered dose and again this allows the medical professional to
25     control of the concentration experienced by the subject (Figure 5). This linear or
       substantially linear relationship of AUC to injected dose is also termed "dose
       proportionality".
       The compositions of the invention provide for an extended duration of
30     buprenorphine release, e.g., as exemplified in Figure 4a. Thus, the half-life plasma
       concentration experienced by the subject after Cmax may be greater than I day,
       preferably greater than 2 days and most preferably greater than 3 days.
       Because of the relatively low Cmax and the long half-life of the buprenorphine
35     depot-precursor formulations of the present invention, the variation of plasma
       concentration during a cycle of administration (once a steady-state has been

   WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 24
        achieved) will be less pronounced (and obviously less sudden) than is experienced
       by a subject taking a daily administration product. For example, the steady-state
        variation between Cmax (the highest plasma concentration during a cycle of
        administration) and Cmin (the lowest plasma concentration over an administration
 5      cycle at steady-state (also termed Ctrough)) may be no more than 20-fold. Thus the
        steady-state Cmax concentration may be no more than 20 times the Cmin plasma
        concentration, preferably no more than 15 times and more preferably no more than
        10 times. Most preferably the Cmax/Cmin ratio will be no more than 6.
10      Thus, the variation between Cmin and Cmax at a steady-state of administration of
        the products of the present invention may fall with the range of between 0.4 ng/mL
        and 10 ng/mL, preferably falling within the range of 0.5 ng/mL and to 8 ng/mL.
        Such a range is highly suitable for treatment of opioid dependence or for opioid
        maintenance therapy.
15
        Because of the very high bioavailability of the buprenorphine formulated in the
        preformulations of the present invention, the transition of a subject currently
        receiving daily sublingual buprenorphine to receiving, for example, monthly or
        weekly formulations according to the present invention will not generally require
20      that the dose be increased significantly. For example a subject may transfer from
        daily sublingual buprenorphine to a weekly formulation of the present invention and
        receive 0.5 to 3 times his previous daily dose administered weekly. Preferably the
        weekly dose will be 0.5 to 2 times the previous daily maintenance dose.
25      The amount of bioactive agent to be formulated with the pre-formulations of the
        present invention will depend upon the functional dose and the period during which
        the depot composition formed upon administration is to provide sustained release.
        Typically, the dose formulated for a particular agent will be less than half of the
        equivalent of the normal daily dose multiplied by the number of days the
30      formulation is to provide release. Preferably this will be less than one third and
        more preferably less than one quarter of the total of the daily doses administered to
        that subject. Thus, for example, a subject receiving a daily sublingual dose of 8 mg
        buprenorphine might typically receive around 22.5 mg every seven days as
        formulated according to the present invention.
35

   WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 25
        The present inventors have observed that the blood plasma buprenorphine
        concentration at which a subject requires a "rescue" dose of buprenorphine
        correlates directly to the maintenance dose that the subject was receiving prior to
        transfer to a depot composition. This is shown graphically in Figure 10. It can be
 5      seen from that figure that the "minimum effective" plasma level for opioid
        maintenance therapy varied from around 0.2 ng/mL to around I ng/mL as the
        previous mean maintenance dose for the different dose groups varied from 7 to
        17mg/day. Correspondingly, a lower dose of around 20-30 mg/month
        buprenorphine formulated according to the present invention might be appropriate
10      for those on a daily dose of up to 7mg/day, while 50 to 100 mg/month might be
        appropriate for those transitioning from a daily dose of up to 17 mg/day.
        Since different subjects will have differing tolerance for opioids, it is important that
        a suitable dose can be selected by a medical professional which will provide peak
15      and plateau concentrations which are acceptable to that subject.
        Doses suitable for a once-weekly administration would typically be in the range 3 to
        40 mg buprenorpbine (calculated as buprenorphine free base), preferably 5 to 30 mg
        per week.
20
        Doses suitable for a once-fortnightly administration would typically be in the range
        6 to 60 mg buprenorphine (calculated as free base), preferably 10 to 50 mg per two
        weeks (i.e. per administration).
25      Doses suitable for once-monthly administration would typically be in the range 10 to
        200 mg buprenorphine (calculated as. free base), preferably 10 to 180 mg per month
        (i.e. per administration). For a opioid substitution (maintenance) dose, 40-140mg
       per month would be preferred. For a pain relieving dose, 10 to 50 mg per month
        would be appropriate.
30
        For opioid dependence and poioid maintenance therapy, a dose providing a blood
        plasma concentration of at least 0.2 ng/mL (e.g. at least 0.4 or at least 0.8 or at least
        1.0 ng/mL) is preferred.
35      Evidently this amount will need to be tailored to take into account factors such as
        body weight, gender, and in particular opioid tolerance and current treatment

   WO 2014/016428                                                         PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 26
        regime. The precise amount suitable in any case will readily be determined by one
        of skill in the art.
        In a further advantage of the present invention, the formulations described herein
 5      provide a very stable equilibrium level of buprenorphine once a small number of
        cycles of regular administration have been made. This stable level provides for
        excellent maintenance dosing and avoidance of withdrawal symptoms.
        Furthermore, once a subject is stabilised by, for example, receipt of weekly
        buprenorphine depot injections, that subject may then be moved onto bi-weekly
10      (fortnightly) formulations and in due course monthly formulations.
        Furthermore, because the blood concentration of buprenorphine decays with a half
        life of 3-4 days, no sudden drop in plasma concentration is experienced and this may
        help avoid or lessen withdrawal symptoms if the subject elects to come off from
15      opioid maintenance. Thus a treatment regime may involve the transfer from daily to
        weekly to fortnightly to monthly formulations. A transition may then be made to
        lower doses and in due course the very slow decay from a stable plateau may allow
        withdrawal of opioid treatment with minimal withdrawal symptoms.
20      One key advantage of the various formulations of the present invention is that they
        permit the inclusion of buprenorphine at surprisingly high loadings. This allows for
        decreased injection volumes, less pain on injection and at the injection site and thus
        better patient compliance. Thus, the overall total buprenorphine content in the
        precursor formulations of the present invention will typically be 12% to 55% by
25      weight of the total formulation. This may be chosen to be in a suitable range for any
        particular application and may thus be, for example in the ranges 15 to 25% or 30 to
        50%. In one particularly preferred embodiment, higher buprenorphine loadings are
        used in combination with the use of NMP as at least a part (e.g. at least 50% of
        component b)) of the solvent component. Thus, precursor formulations comprising
30      NMP may have a buprenorphine loading of greater than 30%, for example 31% to
        55%, 32% to 55% or 35% to 50%.
        In one embodiment, precursor formulations and all corresponding aspects of the
        present invention include a polymer release matrix (as described herein) and
35      comprise buprenorphine at greater than 30% by weight (e.g. 31 to 50% by weight).
        Such compositions will typically comprise NMP.

   WO 2014/016428                                                           PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 27
        In an alternative embodiment, the precursor formulations and all corresponding
        aspects of the present invention include a lipid release matrix (as described herein)
        and comprise buprenorphine at greater than 12% by weight (e-g. 12 to 50% by
 5      weight, preferably 25 to 50%, e-g. 31 to 50% by weight). Such compositions will
        typically comprise NMP.
        In a key embodiment, the pre-formulations of the present invention will generally be
        administered parenterally. This administration will generally not be an intra
10      vascular method but will preferably be subcutaneous, intracavitary or intramuscular.
        Typically the administration will be by injection, which term is used herein to
        indicate any method in which the formulation is passed through the skin, such as by
        needle, catheter or needle-free injector.
15      Injection volumes for the precursor formulations of the present invention may be
        reduced because of the uniquely high level of active agent incorporated. Injection
       volumes will preferably be no more than 5 ml per administration, more preferably
        no more than 2 ml and most preferably no more than I ml. The prefilled devices of
        the invention will thus typically contain these volumes of composition. Prefilled
20      devices such as syringes containing ready-to-use precursor formulations (especially
        comprising lipid matrices but also possible with the polymer formulations of the
        present invention) of the present invention thus form a further aspect thereof.
        One highly valuable aspect of the present invention relates to the use of lipid
25      controlled release matrices in the formation of the precursor formulations and depot
        compositions of the invention. Such lipid matrices are described herein and in
        documents cited herein.
        The lipid-based pre-formulations of the present invention provide non-lamellar
30      liquid crystalline depot compositions upon exposure to aqueous fluids, especially in
        vivo and in contact with body surfaces. As used herein, the term "non-larnellar" is
        used to indicate a normal or reversed liquid crystalline phase (such as a cubic or
        hexagonal phase) or the L3 phase or any combination thereof. The term liquid
        crystalline indicates all hexagonal, all cubic liquid crystalline phases and/or all
35      mixtures thereof Hexagonal as used herein indicates "normal" or "reversed"
        hexagonal (preferably reversed) and "cubic" indicates any cubic liquid crystalline

  WO 2014/016428                                                           PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 28
       phase unless specified otherwise. By use of the lipid pre-formulations of the present
       invention it is possible to generate any phase structure present in the phase-diagram
       of components i) and ii) with water. This is because the pre-formulations can be
       generated with a wider range of relative component concentrations than previous
 5     lipid depot systems without risking phase separation or resulting in highly viscous
       solutions for injection. In particular, the present invention provides for the use of
      phospholipid concentrations above 50% relative to the total amphiphile content.
       This allows access to phases only seen at high phospholipid concentrations,
       particularly the hexagonal liquid crystalline phases.
10
       For many combinations of lipids, only certain non-lamellar phases exist, or exist in
       any stable state. It is a surprising feature of the present invention that compositions
       as described herein frequently exhibit non-lamellar phases which are not present
       with many other combinations of components. In one particularly advantageous
15     embodiment, therefore, the present invention relates to compositions having a
       combination of components for which an I2 and/or L2 phase region exists when
       diluted with aqueous solvent. The presence or absence of such regions can be tested
       easily for any particular combination by simple dilution of the composition with
       aqueous solvent and study of the resulting phase structures by the methods described
20     herein.
       In a highly advantageous embodiment, the compositions of the invention may form
       an 12 phase, or a mixed phase including 12 phase upon contact with water. The 12
       phase is a reversed cubic liquid crystalline phase having discontinuous aqueous
25     regions. This phase is of particular advantage in the controlled release of active
       agents and especially in combination with polar active agents, such as water soluble
       actives because the discontinuous polar domains prevent rapid diffusion of the
       actives. Depot precursors in the L2 are highly effective in combination with an I2
      phase depot formation. This is because the L2 phase is a so-called "reversed
30     micellar" phase having a continuous hydrophobic region surrounding discrete polar
       cores. L2 thus has similar advantages with hydrophilic actives.
       In transient stages after contact with body fluid the composition can comprise
       multiple phases since the formation of an initial surface phase will retard the passage
       of solvent into the core of the depot, especially with substantial sized
35     administrations of internal depots. Without being bound by theory, it is believed
       that this transient formation of a surface phase, especially a liquid crystalline surface

   WO 2014/016428                                                             PCTIEP2013/065855
                                               - 29
        phase, serves to dramatically reduce the "burst/lag" profile of the present
        compositions by immediately restricting the rate of exchange between the
        composition and the surroundings. Transient phases may include (generally in order
        from the outside towards the centre of the depot): H11 or La,    12, L2, and liquid
 5      (solution). It is highly preferred that the composition of the invention is capable
        forming at least two and more preferably at least three of these phases
        simultaneously at transient stages after contact with water at physiological
        temperatures. In particular, it is highly preferred that one of the phases formed, at
        least transiently, is the 12 phase.
10
        It is important to appreciate that the preformulations of the present invention are of
        low viscosity. As a result, these preformulations must not be in any bulk liquid
        crystalline phase since all liquid crystalline phases have a viscosity significantly
        higher than could be administered by syringe or spray dispenser. The
15      preformulations of the present invention will thus be in a non-liquid crystalline state,
        such as a solution, L2 or L3 phase, particularly solution or L2 . The L2 phase as used
        herein throughout is preferably a "swollen" L2 phase containing greater than 10 wt%
        of solvent (component b) having a viscosity reducing effect. This is in contrast to a
        "concentrated" or "unswollen" L2 phase containing no solvent, or a lesser amount of
20      solvent, or containing a solvent (or mixture) which does not provide the decrease in
        viscosity associated with the oxygen-containing, low viscosity solvents specified
        herein.
        Upon administration, the pre-formulations of the present invention undergo a phase
25      structure transition from a low viscosity mixture to a high viscosity (generally tissue
        adherent) depot composition. This takes the form of generation of a non-lamellar
        phase from lipid-based controlled release matrices or precipitation of a polymeric
        monolith in the case of polymer solution precursor formulations. Generally, this
        will be a transition from a molecular (or polymer) solution, swollen L2 and/or L3
30      phase to one or more (high viscosity) liquid crystalline phases or solid polymer.
        Such phases include normal or reversed hexagonal or cubic liquid crystalline phases
        or mixtures thereof. As indicated above, further phase transitions may also take
        place following administration. Obviously, complete phase transition is not
        necessary for the functioning of the invention but at least a surface layer of the
35      administered mixture will form a liquid crystalline structure. Generally this
        transition will be rapid for at least the surface region of the administered formulation

   WO 2014/016428                                                             PCTIEP2013/065855
                                                - 30
        (that part in direct contact with air, body surfaces and/or body fluids). This will
        most preferably be over a few seconds or minutes (e.g. up to 30 minutes, preferably
        up to 10 minutes, more preferably 5 minutes of less). The remainder of the
        composition may change phase to a liquid crystalline phase more slowly by
 5      diffusion and/or as the surface region disperses.
        In one preferred embodiment, the present invention thus provides a pre-formulation
        as described herein of which at least a portion forms a hexagonal liquid crystalline
        phase upon contact with an aqueous fluid. The thus-formed hexagonal phase may
10      gradually disperse, releasing the active agent, or may subsequently convert to a
        cubic liquid crystalline phase, which in turn then gradually disperses. It is believed
        that the hexagonal phase will provide a more rapid release of active agent, in
        particular of hydrophilic active agent, than the cubic phase structure, especially the
        12 and L2 phase. Thus, where the hexagonal phase forms prior to the cubic phase,
15      this will result in an initial release of active agent to bring the concentration up to an
        effective level rapidly, followed by the gradual release of a "maintenance dose" as
        the cubic phase degrades. In this way, the release profile may be controlled.
        Without being bound by theory, it is believed that upon exposure (e.g. to body
20      fluids), the pre-formulations of the invention lose some or all of the organic solvent
        included therein (e.g. by diffusion and/or evaporation) and in some cases take in
        aqueous fluid from the bodily environment (e.g. moist air close to the body or the in
        vivo environment) such that at least a part of the lipid formulations generate a non
        lamellar, particularly liquid crystalline phase structure. Polymeric precursor
25      solutions lose solvent to the biological environment and precipitate a solid polymer.
        In most cases these non-lamellar structures are highly viscous and are not easily
        dissolved or dispersed into the in vivo environment and are bioadhesive and thus not
       easily rinsed or washed away. Furthermore, because the non-lamellar structure has
        large polar, apolar and boundary regions, it is highly effective in solubilising and
30      stabilising many types of active agents and protecting these from degradation
        mechanisms. As the depot composition formed from the pre-formulation gradually
        degrades over a period of days, weeks or months, the active agent is gradually
        released and/or diffuses out from the composition. Since the environment within the
        depot composition is relatively protected, the pre-formulations of the invention are
35      highly suitable for active agents with a relatively low biological half-life (see
        above).

  WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 31
       It is an unexpected finding of the present inventors that the pre-formulations result
       in a depot composition that have very little "burst" effect in the active agent release
       profile. This is unexpected because it might be expected that the low viscosity
 5     mixture (especially if this is a solution) of the pre-composition would rapidly lose
       active agent upon exposure to water. In fact, very high performance is provided in
       comparison with existing formulations, as is seen from Figure 4a and 4b below. In
       one embodiment, the invention thus provides injectable preformulations and
       resulting depot compositions wherein the highest plasma concentration of active
10     after administration is no more than 5 times the average concentration between 24
       hours and 5 days of administration. This ratio is preferably no more than 4 times
       and most preferably no more than 3 times the average concentration.
       It is a considerable advantage of both the lipid-containing precursor formulations
15     and the polymer-matrix precursor formulations of the present invention that they
       may be provided in storage-stable, ready-to-administer form. That is to say, the
      precursor formulations of the present invention may be provided in a form that
       requires no further combining of components in order to generate a formulation that
       is suitable for injection. Thus the invention correspondingly provides an
20     administration device containing at least one precursor formulation as described
       herein wherein the formulation is ready for administration and/or administrable
      without any further combination or mixing of components. This contrasts with
       many controlled-release products, particularly polymeric controlled-release
       formulations, which require various components to be combined before delivery to
25     the patient. Such an administration device will typically contain a dose suitable for
       a single administration where the administration may be once-weekly, once
       fortnightly, once-monthly or once every two or three months. In all cases, the dose
       of buprenorphine will be selected so as to provide over the whole of the dosing
      period (at steady state) a Cmax and Cmin that are within the Cmax to Cmin range
30     experienced following daily sublingual buprenorphine administration. Suitable
       administration devices include prefilled syringes with optional needle stick
       prevention safety device and/or auto-injector, pen cartridge systems and similar
       devices.
35     Suitable administration devices of the invention include a ready-to-use
       buprenorphine formulation of the present invention in a cartridge pen combination

   WO 2014/016428                                                            PCTIEP2013/065855
                                                - 32
        or prefilled syringe device, optionally equipped with a needle stick protecting safety
        device or auto-injector. The device may have a needle with a gauge higher than 18
        G, preferably above 20 G, more preferably above 22 G (for example 23 G or 25 G).
        The buprenorphine formulation will generally be a precursor formulation as
 5      described herein in any embodiment. Such a formulation will generally have a
        viscosity in the range of 100-500 mPas.
        For ease of self-administration, the device of the present invention may be or may be
        used with or incorporated into an auto-injection device or pen-cartridge device.
10      Such a device may be disposable or reusable.
        By "storage stable" as used herein is indicated that a composition maintains at least
        90% of the original active agent content after storage for 36 months at 25*C and
        60% relative humidity. This is preferably at least 95% and more preferably at least
15      98%.
        A ready-to-administer product has obvious advantages for ease of administration
        and in particular, if a opioid dependence product or long term pain relief medication
        is to be administered by a healthcare professional at regular intervals to a population
20      of patients, a significant amount of time may be required in preparation of the
        materials prior to injection. In contrast, if the product is ready to use or even
        provided in a pre-filled administration device then the healthcare professional may
        spend their time in consultation with patients rather than in mixing medications.
25      The methods of treatment and/or prophylaxis, and corresponding uses in
        manufacture, of the present invention will be for any medical indication for which
        opioids are indicated. In particular, chronic conditions such as chronic pain (e.g. in
        arthritis, after surgery, in palliative cancer treatment etc.) are particularly suitable for
        the use of the present depot formulations and their precursors. The most suitable
30      indications will, however, include pain, diarrhoea, depression, opioid dependence,
        opioid addiction, and the symptoms of opioid withdrawal. Of these, the present
        compositions are most preferably used in methods for the treatment and/or
       prophylaxis of opioid dependence, opioid addiction, and/or the symptoms of opioid
        withdrawal. Opioid maintenance therapy (opioid substitution therapy) is the most
35      preferred treatment method for use of the formulations of the invention.

   WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                               - 33
        Cases where opioid dependence and/or opioid addiction have resulted from opioid
        abuse are particularly suitable for treatment with the present compositions because
        they offer advantages in terms of patient compliance, where the patient's lifestyle
        may not be compatible with regular attendance at a clinic or other site of medical
 5      treatment.
        In one aspect, the present invention therefore provides for a method of detoxification
        treatment of a (preferably human) mammalian subject where the subject has or has
        had an opioid dependence, addiction, or habit, and/or where the subject is suffering
10      from or is at risk of suffering from withdrawal symptoms from opioid
        administration. Such a detoxification method will comprise at least one
        administration of a precursor formulation of the present invention. Such a
        formulation may be any such formulation as described herein and as evident from
        that disclosure.
15
        In a further aspect, the present invention therefore provides for a method of
        maintenance treatment of a (preferably human) mammalian subject where the
        subject has or has had an opioid dependence, addiction, or habit, and/or where the
        subject is suffering from or is at risk of suffering from withdrawal symptoms from
20      opioid administration. Such a maintenance treatment method will comprise at least
        one and more commonly multiple administrations of a precursor formulation of the
        present invention. Such a formulation may be any such formulation as described
        herein and as evident from that disclosure. Such administrations may be, for
        example, once weekly, once every two weeks (fortnightly) or once monthly.
25
        In a similar aspect, the present invention provides a method for opioid maintenance
        therapy comprising at least six administrations (eg. 6-120 administrations) of
        precursor formulations of the present invention at periods of 28±7 days between
       each administration.
30
        It is notable that the low ratio of Cmax to Cmin over 28 days provided by the
        products of the present invention demonstrate that a highly effective once-monthly
        formulation can be generated according to the present invention. It is preferable that
        the ratio of Cmax to Cmin over 28 days be no more than 200, preferably no more
35      than 50, or no more than 10. preferably no more than 5, more preferably no more

  WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 34
       than 3 and most preferably no more than 2.8, measured as plasma buprenorphine
       concentrations.
       In one key aspect, the precursor formulations of the invention are given as a
 5     subcutaneous injection. Compared with the sublingual buprenorphine products on
       the market, the products of the invention have one or more of the following
       advantages: 1) Rapid therapeutic onset (with maximum plasma concentrations
       established within 24 hours after injection) followed by steady long-acting release,
       2) Reduced variation in buprenorphine plasma levels over time (stable plasma levels
10     attained for at least 7 days) resulting in more therapeutic levels and a possible
       reduction in morning "cravings", 3) Less frequent dosing resulting in reduced
       frequency of clinic visits and need for medical support, 4) Significantly higher
       bioavailability and efficacy-over-dose ratio, meaning less drug substance in
       circulation and on the street, 5) Decreased risk of drug diversion, 6) Easier dose
15     adjustment, 7) "Ready-to-use" dosage formulation, 8) high buprenorphine loading,
       9) good systemic tolerability and 10) good local tolerability at the administration
       site.
       The Invention will now be further illustrated by reference to the following non
20     limiting Examples and the attached Figures, in which;
       Figure 1 shows the cumulative release of methylene blue (MB) from a depot
       formulation comprising PC/GDO/EtOH (45/45/10 wt%) when injected into excess
       water;
25
       Figure 2 demonstrates the non-linear decrease of pre-formulation viscosity upon
       addition of N-methyl pyrolidone (NMP) and ethanol (EtOH);
       Figure 3 Shows stability of buprenorphine at long-term 25*C/60% RH and
30     accelerated 40*C/75% RH conditions in Formulation Al (also referred to as
       CAM2038) as described in Example 16

   WO 2014/016428                                                       PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 35
        Figure 4 Shows plasma profiles in rats (N=6) after subcutaneous injection of
        Formulation A18 and A3 (Example 11) at doses of 140 mg/kg and 50 mg/kg,
        respectively.
 5      Figure. 5 shows X-ray diffractograms of the BJ formulations in PBS containing
        different amounts of BUP. Samples are prepared at formulation to PBS weight ratio
        of 1/9. Upon increasing BUP concentration the Fd3m liquid crystalline structure
        remains unchainged.
10      Figure. 6 Shows X-ray diffractograms of the BJ formulation containing 35 wt% of
        BUP as a function of temperature. Sample is prepared at formulation to PBS weight
        ratio of 1/9. Upon increasing temperature from 25 to 42 "C the Fd3m liquid
        crystalline structure remains unchanged.
15      Figure 7 Shows plasma concentration of BUP following administration of lipid
        (solid point markers) and PLGA (open point markers) depot precursor formulations
        of the present invention at various concentrations.
        Figure 8 Shows a comparison of Buprenorphine release in ready-to-administer
20      polymeric compositions of Example 17 (closed markers) with previous
        compositions of PCT/GB2011/051057 (open markers).
        Figure 9 Shows a comparison of Buprenorphine release in ready-to-administer lipid
        compositions of Example 17 (solid markers) with previous compositions of
25      PCT/GB2011/051057 (open markers).
        Figure 10 - Blood plasma concentration at which rescue buprenorphine was
        requested following depot administration plotted against the subject's previous daily
        maintenance dose prior to transfer to depot administration.
30

   WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                                    - 36
        Examples:
        Example 1
        Availability of various liquid crystalline phases in the depot by choice of
 5      composition
        Injectable formulations containing different proportions of phosphatidyl choline
        ("PC" - Epikuron 200) and glycerol dioleate (GDO) and with EtOH as solvent were
        prepared to illustrate that various liquid crystalline phases can be accessed after
        equilibrating the depot precursor formulation with excess water.
10
        Appropriate amounts of PC and EtOH were weighed in glass vials and the mixture
        was placed on a shaker until the PC completely dissolved to form a clear liquid
        solution. GDO was then added to form an injectable homogenous solution.
15      Each formulation was injected in a vial and equilibrated with excess water. The
        phase behaviour was evaluated visually and between crossed polarizes at 25*C.
        Results are presented in Table 1.
        TABLE 1. Phase behaviour of PC/GDO formulations.
        Formulation          PC (wt%/o)             GDO (wt/o)   EtOH (wt%)       Phase in
                                                                                  H 20
       A                     22.5                   67.5         10.0             L2
        B                    28.8                   61.2         10.0             I2
        C                    45.0                   45.0         10.0             Hi1
        D                    63.0                   27.0         10.0             H_/La
20      L2= reversed micellar phase
        12= reversed cubic liquid crystalline phase
        HI, = reversed hexagonal liquid crystalline phase
        L.= lamellar phase
25      Example 2
        In vitro release of a water-soluble substance
        A water-soluble colorant, methylene blue (MB) was dispersed in formulation C (see
        Example 1) to a concentration of 11 mg/g formulation. When 0.5 g of the

  WO 2014/016428                                                         PCTIEP2013/065855
                                            - 37
       formulation was injected in 100 ml water a stiff reversed hexagonal Hr phase was
       formed. The absorbency of MB released to the aqueous phase was followed at 664
       nm over a period of 10 days. The release study was performed in an Erlenmeyer
       flask at 37*C and with low magnetic stirring.
 5     The release profile of MB (see Figure 1) from the hexagonal phase indicates that this
       (and similar) formulations are promising depot systems. Furthermore, the
       formulation seems to give a low initial burst, and the release profile indicates that
       the substance can be released for several weeks; only about 50% of MB is released
       after 10 days.
10
       Example 3
       Viscosity in PC/GDO (5:5) or PC/GDO (4:6) on addition of solvent (EtOH, PG
       and NMP)
       A mixture of PC/GDO/EtOH with approximately 25 % EtOH was manufactured
15     according to the method in Example 1. All, or nearly all, of the EtOH was removed
       from the mixture with a rotary evaporator (vacuum, 40*C for lh followed by 50*C
       for 2h) and the resulting mixture was weighed in glass vial after which 1, 3, 5, 10 or
       20% of a solvent (EtOH, propylene glycol (PG) or n-methyl pyrrolidone (NMP))
       was added. The samples were allowed to equilibrate several days before the
20     viscosity was measured with a CarriMed CSL 100 rheometer equipped with
       automatic gap setting.
       This example clearly illustrates the need for solvent with certain depot precursors in
       order to obtain an injectable formulation (see Figure 2). The viscosity of solvent-free
25     PC/GDO mixtures increases with increasing ratio of PC. Systems with low PC/GDO
       ratio (more GDO) are injectable with a lower concentration of solvent.

  WO 2014/016428                                                         PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 38
       Example 4
       Preparation of depot precursor compositions with various solvents.
       Depending on composition of the formulation and the nature and concentration of
 5     active substance certain solvents may be preferable.
       Depot precursor formulations (PC/GDO/solvent (36/54/10)) were prepared by with
       various solvents; NMP, PG, PEG400, glycerol/EtOH (90/10) by the method of
       Example 1. All depot precursor compositions were homogeneous one phase
10     solutions with a viscosity that enabled injection through a syringe (23G - i.e. 23
       gauge needle; 0.6mm x 30mm). After injecting formulation precursors into excess
       water a liquid crystalline phase in the form of a high viscous monolith rapidly
       formed with NMP and PG containing precursors. The liquid crystalline phase had a
       reversed cubic micellar (12) structure. With PEG400, glycerol/EtOH (90/10) the
15     viscosification/solidification process was much slower and initially the liquid
       precursor transformed to a soft somewhat sticky piece. The difference in appearance
       probably reflects the slower dissolution of PEG400 and glycerol towards the excess
       aqueous phase as compared to that of EtOH, NMP and PG.
20     Example 5
       Robustness of the behaviour of the formulation against variations in the
       excipient quality.
       Depot precursor formulations were prepared with several different GDO qualities
25     (supplied by Danisco, Denmark), Table 2, using the method of Example 1. The final
       depot precursors contained 36%wt PC, 54%wt GDO, and 10%wt EtOH. The
       appearance of the depot precursors was insensitive to variation in the quality used,
       and after contact with excess water a monolith was formed with a reversed micellar
       cubic phase behaviour (12 structure).
30

   WO 2014/016428                                                         PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 39
        TABLE 2. Tested qualities of GDO.
        GDO            Monoglyceride              Diglyceride (%wt)   Triglyceride (%wt)
        quality        (%wt)
        A               10.9                       87.5               1.6
        B              4.8                        93.6                1.6
        C               1.0                       97.3                1.7
        D               10.1                      80.8                10.1
        E              2.9                         88.9               8.2
        F              0.9                         89.0               10.1
        Example 6
        Degradation of depot formulation in the rat.
 5
       Various volumes (1, 2, 6 mt/kg) of the depot precursor (36%wt PC, 54%wt GDO,
        and 10%wt EtOH) were injected in the rat and were removed again after a period of
        14 days. It was found that substantial amounts of the formulations were still present
        subcutaneously in the rat after this time, see Table 3.
10
        TABLE 3. Mean diameter of depot monolith.
        Dose (ml/kg)      Mean diameter day 3 (mm)              Mean diameter day 14 (mm)
        1 (n=3)           15.8                                  12.5
        2 (n=3)           18.5                                  15.3
        6 (n=3)           23.3                                  19.3
        Example 7
        Compositions containing PC and tocopherol.
15
        Depot precursor formulations were prepared with several different PC/a-tocopherol
        compositions using the method of Example 1 (PC was first dissolved in the
        appropriate amount of EtOH and thereafter a-tocopherol was added to give clear
        homogenous solutions).
20
        Each formulation was injected in a vial and equilibrated with excess water. The
        phase behaviour was evaluated visually and between crossed polarizes at 25*C.
        Results are presented in Table 4.

  WO 2014/016428                                                                PCTIEP2013/065855
                                                  - 40
       TABLE 4. Phase behaviour of PC/a-tocopherol formulations.
            a-               PC             Ethanol             Phase in excess H20
      tocopherol
          2.25g            2.25g             0.5g                         HIT
          2.7g              1.8g             0.5g                        H1/12
          3.15g            1.35g             0.5g                          12
          3.6g              0.9g             0.5g                        12/L2
       Example 8
       In vitro release of water-soluble disodium fluorescein.
 5
       A water-soluble colorant, disodium fluorescein (Fluo), was dissolved in a
       formulation containing PC/a-tocopherol/Ethanol (27/63/10 wt%) to a concentration
       of 5 mg Fluo/g formulation. When 0.1 g of the formulation was injected in 2 ml of
       phosphate buffered saline (PBS) a reversed micellar (12) phase was formed. The
10     absorbency of Fluo released to the aqueous phase was followed at 490 nm over a
       period of 3 days. The release study was performed in a 3 mL vial capped with an
       aluminium fully tear off cap at 37*C. The vial was placed on a shaking table at 150
       rpm.
       The release of Fluo from the PC/ct-tocopherol formulation (see Table 5) indicates
15     that this (and similar) formulations are promising depot systems. Furthermore, the
       absence of a burst effect is noteworthy, and the release indicates that the substance
       can be released for several weeks to months; only about 0.4% of Fluo is released
       after 3 days.
20     TABLE 5. In vitro release of disodium fluorescein from PC/a-tocopherol
       composition.
               Formulation                                     % release (37 0 C)
                                                       24h                          72h
         PC/ca-tocopherol/EtOH:                       <0.1*                         0.43
              27/63/10 wt%
       * Release below detection limit of the absorbance assay

   WO 2014/016428                                                       PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              -41
        Example 9
        Solubility of buprenorphine in depot precursor formulations.
        Buprenorpine solubility in formulation precursors was determined by the following
 5      protocol; buprenorphine in excess was added to formulation precursors and samples
        were equilibrated by end-over-end mixing at ambient room temperature for four
        days. Excess buprenorphine was removed by filtration and the concentration in
        precursor formulations was determined with HPLC. Formulation precursors in the
        table below differ by the additional solvent (ethanol (EtOH), benzyl alcohol
10      (BzOH), polyethyleneglycol 400 (PEG400), benzyl benzoate (BzB), and
        dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO)).
        TABLE 6. Buprenorphine solubility in various precursor formulations.
        Sample           Composition of formulation precursor              Buprenorphine
                   SPC /      GDO /      EtOH /        Additional         solubility / wt%
                    wt%        wt%        wt%        solvent / wt%
           1        47.5       47.5         5                                    10.4
           2         45         45         5            EtOH /5                 10.3
           3         45         45         5           BzOH /5                   9.9
           4         45         45          5         PEG400 / 5                 10.8
           5         45         45         5             BzB / 5                11.2
           6         45         45         5           DMSO/5                   15.2
15
        Example 10
        In vitro behaviour of buprenorphine depot precursor formulations.
        After injection into excess water or excess saline (0.9% NaCl) a liquid crystalline
20      phase in the form of a high viscous monolith formed with all formulation precursors
        described in Example 14. In general the transformation was somewhat slower with
        additional solvent, while buprenorphine appeared not to have a strong influence on
        the monolith formation.
25      Example 11
        Ready-to-administer lipid formulations
        The formulations indicated in Table 7 below comprising buprenorphine, lipids and
        solvent were generated by adding the respective component in the required

   WO 2014/016428                                                         PCTIEP2013/065855
                                                - 42
        proportions to sterile injection glass vials followed by capping with sterile rubber
        stoppers and aluminium crimp caps. Mixing of the formulations (sample sizes 5-10
        g) was performed by placing the vials on a roller mixer at ambient room temperature
        until liquid and homogenous formulations were obtained. The formulations were
 5      finally sterile filtered through 0.22 gm PVDF membrane filters using ca 2.5 bar
        nitrogen pressure.
        The lipids used were Lipoid S100 (SPC) from Lipoid, Germany, and Rylo DG19
        Pharma (GDO) from Danisco, Denmark.
10
        TABLE 7. Ready-to-administer lipid buprenorphine compositions (wt%).
           Formulation          BUP        SPC        GDO       EtOH       NMP
               name
                Al              5.29      42.36       42.36      10.00
                A2              7.93      41.04       41.04      10.00
                A3              5.29      44.10       44.10       6.50
                A4              7.81      43.60       43.60       5.00
                A5              7.93      49.25       32.83      10.00
                A6              7.93      32.83       49.25      10.00
                A7              7.93      38.54       38.54      15.00
                A8              7.93      36.04       36.04      20.00
                A9              5.29      33.88       50.83      10.00
                AJO             5.29      46.59       38.12      10.00
                All             5.29      50.83       33.88      10.00
                A12             0.53      44.74       44.74      10.00
               A13              1.06      44.47       44.47      10.00
                A14             2,11      43.94       43.94      10.00
                A15             15.0       37.5        37.5         -       10.0
                A16             15.0       32.5        32.5         -       20.0
                A17             35.0       17.5        17.5         -       30.0
                A18             35.0       14.0        21.0         -       30.0
                A19             15.0       35.0        35.0         -       15.0
                A20             15.0       30.0        30.0         -       25.0
                A21             30.0       25.0        25.0         -       20.0
                A22             40.0       12.0        18.0         -       30.0
                A23             30.0       16.0        24.0         -       30.0
                A24             25.0       22.0        33.0         -       30.0
                A25             15.0       32.5        32.5        5.0      15.0

  WO 2014/016428                                                         PCT/EP2013/065855
                                               - 43
       Example 12
       Ready-to-ad minister polymer formulations
       The formulations indicated in Table 8 below comprising buprenorphine, polymer
 5     and solvent were generated by adding the respective component in the required
       proportions to a sterile injection glass vial followed by capping with sterile rubber
       stopper and aluminium crimp cap. Mixing of the formulations (sample sizes 5-10 g)
       was performed by placing the vials on a roller mixer at ambient room temperature
       until liquid and homogenous formulations were obtained. The formulations were
10     finally sterile filtered through 0.22 pM PVDF membrane filters using ca 2.5 bar
       nitrogen pressure.
       The polymer used was PLGA (polymer type 50/50 Poly(DL-lactide-co-glycolide)
       with inherent viscosity 0.59 dL/g) from Birmingham Polymers Inc., USA.
15
       TABLE 8. Ready-to-administer polymer         bupreno  hine compositions (wt%).
          Formulation         BUP       PLGA         NMP
              name
               BI              15.0      21.25       63.75
               B2              20.0      20.00       60.00
               B3              25.0      18.75       56.25
               B4              32.5       16.9        50.6
               B5              35.0       16.2       48.8
               B6              40.0       15.0       45.0
       Example 13
20     Formulations comprising water and buprenorphine salts
       The formulations indicated in Table 9 below comprising buprenorphine, lipids and
       solvent were generated as described in Example 16 above. For the formulations
       comprising water, the additives hydrochloric acid (HCI) and citric acid (CA) were
25     first dissolved in the aqueous phase followed by addition to the other components.
       The respective buprenorphine salt forms (i.e., hydrochloride, citrate, benzoate and
       pamoate salts) are generated in the formulations after mixing of all components.

  WO 2014/016428                                                         PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 44
        The lipids used were Lipoid S100 (SPC) from Lipoid, Germany, and Rylo DG19
        Phanna (GDO) from Danisco, Denmark. Benzoic acid and pamoic (or embonic)
        acid are abbreviated Bz and PAM, respectively.
 5      TABLE 9. Ready-to-administer lipid buprenorphine compositions comprising water
        and bu preno hine salts (wt%).
   Formulation  BUP    SPC   GDO    EtOH    NMP   HC1(aq) WFI    CA   Bz    PAM
      name
                                                     0 52
                                                  pH .
       C1        2.11 33.95  33.95  1500       -   15.00    -     -    -
       C2        5.29 31.86  31.86   15.00     -     -    15.00 1.00   -
       C3        1.06 33.97  33.97   15.00     -     -    15.00 1.00   -
       C4        2,11 32.95  32.95   15.00     -     -    15.00 2.00   -
       C5        2.11 33.75  33.75   15.00     -     -    15.00 0.40   -
       C6        2.11 38.75  38.75  10.00      -     -    10.00 0.40   -
       C7        5.29 41.10  41.10   10.00     -     -      -     -  2.60
       CS        5.29 35.16  35.16   5.00   15.00    -      -     -    -     4.39
       C9        5.29 35.71  35.71   5.00   15.00    -      -     -    -     3.29
      CIO        5.29 36.26  36.26   5.00   15.00    -      -     -    -     2.19
      Cl3        1.06 34.47  34.47   15.00     -     -    15.00   -    -
      C12        2.11 33.95  33.95  15.00      -     -    15.00   -    -
      C13        1.06 39.47  39.47   10.00     -     -    10.00   -    -
        Example 14
10      Lipid buprenorphine formulation filled into pre-filled syringes.
        Formulation Al, hereinafter referred to as CAM2038, was manufactured according
        to Example 11 above at a batch size of 100 mL. The formulation was filled into 1
        mL (ong) pre-filled syringes (1.0 mL long Gerresheimer glass, staked needle 25G
15      16 mm thin wall, oily siliconized, batch no: 1000102210) and plunger stoppers
        (West 2340 4432/50/GRAU B240 Westar@ RS, lot. Nr: 1112020528) and plunger

   WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 45
        rods (Gerresheimer Plunger rod I mL long 55103, art no: 551030001) were
        assembled.
 5      Example 15
        Controlling PK profile by composition
        Formulations A3 and A 18 (see Example 11) were administered subcutaneously to
        rats in doses of 50 and 140 mg/kg, respectively (N   = 6 per group). Blood samples
10      were collected up to 21 days after dosing. The plasma concentrations were
        determined as described below and the respective pharmacokinetic profiles are
        shown in Figure 4. As can be seen, whereas Formulation A3 provides a short time to
        Cmax (about 24 hrs) and thereafter stable and slowly declining plasma levels,
        Formulation A18 provides a longer time to Cmax (ca 8 days) and thereafter slowly
15      declining plasma levels. It is also noteworthy that despite the high buprenorphine
        load of 35 wt% in Formulation AI8 and the higher dose administered, the plasma
        levels over the first days are lower compared to Formulation A3.
        Protocol:
20
        The formulation A3/A1 8 was administered subcutaneously to rats in doses of 50 and
        140 mg/kg respecitively and blood samples were collected pre-dose, I hrs, 6 hrs, I
        day, 2 days, 5 days, 8 days and 14 days after dosing. In a separate group, Temgesic
        (aqueous injection solution of buprenorphine hydrochloride with an equivalent
25      buprenorphine base concentration of 0.30 mg/mL) was administered intravenously
        (0.45 mg/kg, N = 6) and blood samples were collected pre-dose, I min, 5 min, 10
        min, 30 min, 60 min, 3 hrs, 6 hrs and 24 hrs. The plasma concentrations were
        determined with the aid of a commercial ELISA kit adapted for analysis of
        buprenorphine in rat plasma. The area-under-the-curve (AUC) for the respective
30      treatment groups was calculated and the absolute bioavailability was calculated by
        comparing the AUC for the subcutaneous Formulation A3 dose groups with the
        AUC for the Temgesic intravenous dose group. The results revealed very high
        absolute bioavailability for all Formulations-

  WO 2014/016428                                                            PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 46
       Example 16:
       The lipid liquid crystalline phase structure of hydrated formulations containing high
       concentration buprenorphrine was studied by synchrotron SAXD. Diffractograms
 5     were recorded at the 19-11-4 SAXS beamline (MAX-lab, Lund University).
       Herein, synchrotron SAXS is used to study the effect of BUP concentration on the
       liquid crystalline (LC) phase structure for 40/60 SPC/GDO and 70/30
       (Lipid+BUP)/NMP ("BY'). Temperature effect on the LC phase structure containing
       35 wt% of BUP was also studied at 25, 37 and 42 *C to cover the relevant
10     temperature range.
       Material
       Table 10. Excipients used in the experiment.
          Explanation                            Abureviation delivered by
                                                              D
         Soy phosphatidylcholine                 SPC          Lipoid
         Glycerol dioleate (Rylo DG 19)          GDO          Danisco
          N-Methyl-2-pyrrolldone                 NMP          ISP
          Phosphate buffered saline              P85          Sigma-Aldrich
          Sterile water                          H20          Apoteket
       Briefly, the lipid formulations were prepared by weighing all components followed
15     by mixing on a roller table at room temperature. Formulations were thenequilibrated
       in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) at weight ratio 1/9 at room temperature for 5
       days and their transparency and homogeneity were noted 3 and 4 days after
       hydration, respectively. Approximately 100 mg of each formulation was equilibrated
       with PBS buffer.
20     Synchrotron SAXD measurements were performed at the 19-11-4 beamline, MAX
       lab. The samples were exposed to X-rays for 60 s at each of the three temperatures
       (25, 37 and 42 *C). The samples were allowed to equilibrate for at least 5 minutes at
       each temperature before the diffratograms were recorded.
25     Table II lists the composition of samples studied by SAXD. The SAXD data is
       shown and further discussed below.
       Table 11 - "BJ"-BUP formulations with different fraction of BUP and PBS dilution.

   WO 2014/016428                                                            PCT/EP2013/065855
                                              - 47
         Formlatlon lb No:                                   FOrmuiatlon
                              SPC/GDO      Lipid/NMP/BUP
                                                                -PBS
                 4217            40/60       69.7/30.3/0         1/9
                 4216            40/60      59.9/29.8/10.3       1/9
                 4215            40/60      49.8/30.2/20.0       1/9
                 4214            40/60      39.9/30.2/29.9       1/9
                4213-5           40/60      34.9/30.1/35.0       1/9
        Effect of BUP in formulations
        The "BJ" (high loading, 35% BUP) formulations with a 40/60 SPC/GDO and 30%
 5     NMP exhibit a cubic micellar (12) phase (Fd3m) at all fractions of BUP (0-35%), as
        seen in Figure 5. The cubic Fd3rn structure is also preserved when heating from 25
        to 37 and 42 *C. (Figure 6).
        Conclusion
        The lipid liquid crystalline phases of hydrated formulation containing BUP has been
10      studied with synchrotron SAXS. The studies show that even up to at least 35% BUP
        loading, the characteristics of the desired liquid crystalline lipid phases are shown
        when preformulations are added to aqueous buffer (10% formulation in buffer).
        This phase behaviour is shown at 25*C, 37*C and 42*C and 35% BUP.
15      Example - 17 High Loading PLGA and Lipid Precursor Formulations
        Formulations 2038BUP-BJ (lipid - 352 mg/mL BLP) and 203SUP-AL (PLGA - 150
        mg/mL BUP) were prepared according to the protocol of the previous Examples (16
        and 12) and with the components as shown below (in wt%). Each composition was
20      tested by subcutaneous injeciton into 6 rats at each of several dosage levels.

  WO 2014/016428                                                            PCTIEP2013/065855
                                            - 48
       PK-12-454
        Test item             SUP        SP          GD           NHP.
         2038BUP-BJ          35.00      14.00        21.00        30.00
        Group        N4o of                         Route of
         No         animals       treatment     administration        volume           BUP
                                                                   _(mL/kg)         (mg/kg)
            1          6         2038BUP-BJ           s.c.               0.17            60
            2          6         2038BUP-BJ           s.c.               0.29           100
            3          6         2038BUP-BJ           s.c.               0.40           140
            4          6         2038BUP-BJ           s.c.               0.51           180
       PK-I1-415
        Test item                BUP          PLGA          NMP
         2038BUP-AL             15.00         21.25         63.75
 5
        Group        No of                          Route-of          Do§e.
                                                                      DseoDs  of .     Dose
                                 Treatment                               sUP         volume
         No         animals                      administration      (mg/k          (mL/kg)
            1          6        2038BUP-AL             s.c.                30           0.2
            2          6        2038BUP-AL             s.c.                60           0.4
            3          6         2038BUP-AL            s.c.                90           0.6
       Figure 7 shows the results of plasma BUP measurements for several weeks
       following administration of the two compositions. It is notable that:
10             The lipid formulation shows a gently tapering profile over the study period
               The lipid formulation shows a plasma level at the 28-day re-administration
               point which depends directly and approximately proportionally upon the
               administered dose.
15
               The PLGA formulation shows a flatter profile with lower total AUC during
               the study period.
               The PLGA formulation is apparently less dose proportional, with the 30 mg
20             and 60 mg doses providing the same plasma profile for the first month.

  WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 49
       For comparison, the precursor formulations of the present invention were plotted
       against the data provided in PCT/GB2011/051057 relating to the following
       compositions:
 5
       TA  1: 15%  Buprenorphine base in 45% 50/50 PLGH(26 kD) and 55% NMP
       TA  2: 20%  Buprenorphine base in 40% 50/50 PLGH( 17 kD) and 60% NMP
       TA  3: 20%  Bup base in 20% 50/50 PLGH(26 Kd), 20% 50/50 PLG H(12 kD) and 60% NMP
       TA  4  20%  Buprenorphine base in 45% 50/50 PLGH( 12 kD) and 55% NMP
       Figure 8 shows the comparison of the ready-to-administer compositions of the
       present invention with the previously known polymer depot composition of
10     PCT/GB2011/051057. It is evident that even at much lower doses the amount of
       available BUP in the compositions of the present invention is greatly increased. A
       typical rat weighs around 330g and thus a 60mg/kg does equates to around 20mg/rat
       but provides similar AUC availability to 100mg/rat for the known formulation.
15     Figure 9 shows the comparison of the ready-to-administer compositions of the
       present invention with the previously known polymer depot composition of
       PCT/GB2011/051057. It is evident that the AUC bioavailability, release shape and
       dose proportionality are all significantly better for the lipid compositions of the
       present invention. In particular, the lowest dose of 60 mg/kg equates to around 20
20     mg/rat but provides much better release profile and bioavailability than the known
       composition at I00mg/rat.

  WO 2014/016428                                                         PCTIEP2013/065855
                                            - 50
       Claims:
       1)      A depot precursor formulation comprising:
       a)      a controlled-release matrix;
 5     b)      at least oxygen containing organic solvent;
       c)      at least 12% by weigh of at least one active agent selected from
       buprenorphine and salts thereof, calculated as buprenorphine free base.
       2)      The depot precursor formulation of claim I which forms a depot composition
10     upon administration to the body of a subject.
       3)      The depot precursor formulation of claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the controlled
       release matrix comprises a polymer release matrix.
15     4)      The depot precursor formulation of claim 3 wherein the polymer release
       matrix comprises at least one biodegradable polymer.
       5)      The depot precursor formulation of claim 4 wherein the biodegradable
       polymer comprises at least one biodegradable polyester such as polylactate,
20     polyglycolate, and/or polylactate/glycolate copolymer.
       6)      The depot precursor formulation of any preceding claim wherein the
       controlled release matrix comprises PLGA microspheres.
25     7)      The depot precursor formulation of any preceding claim wherein the at least
       one active agent selected from buprenorphine and salts thereof is present at a level
       of greater than 30% (e.g. 31 to 45%) by weight buprenorphine (calculated as
       buprenorphine free base).
30     8)      The depot precursor formulation of claim I or claim 2 wherein the controlled
      release matrix comprises a lipid controlled release formulation, preferably a
       formulation comprising an acyl glycerol (e.g. diacyl glycerol, triacyl glycerol or
       mixtures thereof), a phospholipid and an oxygen-containing organic solvent..
35     9)      The depot precursor formulation of claim 8 wherein the lipid controlled
       release formulation comprises:

  WO 2014/016428                                                           PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 51
       i)       least one neutral diacyl lipid and/or at least one tocopherol; and
       ii)      at least one phospholipid;
 5     10)      The depot precursor formulation of claim 5 wherein component i) comprises
       at least 50% by weight of components having C16 to C18 acyl groups, such groups
       having zero, one or two unsaturations.
       11)      The depot precursor formulation of any of claims 8 to 10 wherein component
10     ii) comprises at least 50% of components comprising C16 to C18 acyl groups and
       having zero, one or two unsaturations.
       12)      The depot precursor formulation of any preceding claim wherein component
       b) comprises at least one amide, preferably NMP.
15
       13)      The depot precursor formulation of any preceding claim for once-monthly
       administration.
       14)      The depot precursor formulation of any preceding claim having a dose in the
20     range 10 to 200 mg buprenorphine (calculated as free base) particularly 20 to
       200mg, more preferably 40 to 140mg.
       15)      The depot precursor formulation of any preceding claim wherein the
       precursor formulation is in ready-to-administer form.
25
       16)      The depot precursor formulation of any preceding claim wherein the
       precursor formulation is stable to storage in ready-to-administer form.
       17)      The depot precursor formulation of any preceding claim containing greater
30     than 15% by weight buprenorphine (calculated as buprenorphine free base),
      preferably 21% or greater, more preferably 25% or greater and most preferably
       greater than 30% by weight.
       18)      The depot precursor formulation of any preceding claim in ready-to
35     administer form.

   WO 2014/016428                                                         PCTIEP2013/065855
                                              - 52
        19)     A depot composition formed by administration to a (preferably human)
        subject of a depot precursor formulation of any preceding claim.
        20)     The depot composition of claim 19 which provides a Cmax (maximum
 5      concentration) in the blood plasma of said subject after a single administration of no
        more than 0.3 ng/ml per mg of administered buprenorphine.
        21)     The depot composition of claim 19 or claim 20 which, upon administration
        to said subject provides linearity (proportionality) of the AUC dose in comparison
10      with the administered dose of buprenorphine.
        22)     The depot composition of any of claims 19 to 21 which, upon administration
        to said subject provides a buprenorphine blood plasma profile not having any lag
        phase.
15
        23)     The depot composition of any of claims 19 to 22 wherein, following
        administration to said subject of a precursor formulation of any of claims I to 18
        once monthly for at least 6 months, Cmin and Cmax at a steady-state both fall with
        the range of between 0.4 ng/mL and 10 ng/mL.
20
        24)     The depot composition of any of claims 19 to 22 wherein, following
        administration to said subject of a precursor formulation of any of claims 1 to 18
        once monthly for at least 6 months, Cmin and Cmax at a steady-state both fall with
        the range of between 0.2 ng/mL and 2 ng/mL.
25
        25)     The depot composition of any of claims 19 to 24 which comprises:
        a)      a controlled-release matrix;
        b)      optionally at least oxygen containing organic solvent;
30      c)      at least one active agent selected from buprenorphine and salts thereof;
        d)      at least one aqueous fluid.
        26)     A method of sustained delivery of buprenorphine to a human or non-human
        animal body, said method comprising administering a depot precursor formulation
35      comprising:
        a)      a controlled-release matrix;

  WO 2014/016428                                                          PCTIEP2013/065855
                                             - 53
       b)       at least oxygen containing organic solvent;
       c)       at least 12% of at least one active agent selected from buprenorphine and
       salts thereof.
 5     27)      A method for the formation of a depot composition comprising exposing a
       precursor formulation comprising:
       a)       a controlled-release matrix;
       b)       at least oxygen containing organic solvent;
       c)       at least 12% by weight of at least one active agent selected from
10     buprenorphine and salts thereof.
        to an aqueous fluid in vivo.
       28)      A method of treatment or prophylaxis of a human or non-human animal
       subject comprising administration of a precursor formulation of any of claims I to
15     18.
       29)      A method of claim 28 for the treatment of pain, for opioid maintenance
       therapy or for the treatment of opioid dependence by detoxification and/or
       maintenance or for the treatment or prophylaxis of the symptoms of opioid
20     withdrawal and/or cocaine withdrawal.
       30)      A method of transitioning of a subject from daily sublingual buprenorphine
       to a sustained buprenorphine formulation comprising administering to said subject a
       monthly buprenorphine depot precursor formulation comprising 0.5 to 3 times his
25     previous daily buprenorphine dose.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
