                                           ABSTRACT
          Compositions including     recycled resin components      and medical   devices  and
   components made form such compositions are disclosed.         The compositions and medical
 5 devices are characterized  as biocompatible    and sterilization stable.  In one or more
   embodiments, the compositions include a recycled resin component and may include one or
   more of an anti-oxidant component, slip additive component, anti-static component, impact
   modifier component, colorant component, acid scavenger component, X-ray fluorescence
   agent component, radio opaque filler component, surface modifier component, melt stabilizer
10 component, clarifier component, processing aid component and reinforcing agent component.
   Methods of forming medical articles and components are also disclosed.

   1/12
C)
        (CD
AL

                                                   I
  RECYCLED RESIN COMPOSITIONS AND DISPOSABLE MEDICAL DEVICES MADE
                                              THEREFROM
RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0000]         The present application is a divisional of Australian application number <removed-apn>
filed 17 March 2017, which itself is a divisional of Australian application number <removed-apn> filed
29 February 2016, which itself is a divisional of Australian application number 2011291997, which
itself is an Australian national phase of International application number PCT/US2011/048103 filed
17 August 2011, which itself claims priority from US application number 12/859,972 filed 20
August 2010. The contents of each of these applications is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety.
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001]         The present invention relates to recycled resin compositions, medical devices formed
from recycled resin compositions and methods for manufacturing medical devices from recycled
resin compositions.
BACKGROUND
[0002]         Plastics form a significant component of majority of disposable medical devices, non
disposable medical devices, medical device packaging as well as other nonmedical device
applications including automotive and commodity applications. These thermoplastics include
polymers     such as polypropylene,       polyethylene, polystyrene, polyethyleneterephthalate       and
polycarbonate among others. Increasing use of plastics over the past decades has resulted in
increased impact on landfill capacity and the depletion of fossil fuel-based resources. The increasing
use of plastics or plastic material has also resulted in increasing level of environmental pollution and
associated carbon footprint.
[0003]         In light of above, there has been an increased interest in the utilization of recycled
thermoplastic polymeric materials, which may be obtained from a variety of sources. The increased
interest in utilizing recycled thermoplastic polymeric materials is driven by a number of factors,
including increased customer awareness and concern for protection of the environment,
environmentally preferred purchasing policies developed by customers, recognition of benefits of
environmental stewardship in marketing by brand owners, development of new regulations and
environmental policies intended to reduce the carbon footprint, and a desire to reduce the increasing
costs of storage and/or landfill space coupled with more stringent regulations for disposal and
incineration. The increased interest in utilizing recycled thermoplastic polymeric materials is also
driven by the improved capabilities of recyclers to consistently produce high quality recycled resins.
These factors have already resulted in extensive use of recycled plastics in automotive and food
packaging applications. For example, Ford Motor Company has developed ways to increase the use
of recycled materials in its vehicle manufacturing. Two exemplary outcomes of this development
include Visteon Automotive Systems' recycling of thermoplastic scrap from automobile bumpers
and E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company recycling of scrap into automobile air cleaners.

                                                      2
   Recycled PET or polyethylene terephthalate is extensively used in food and packaging
   applications including beverage bottles.
   [0004]            In order to enhance the environmental stewardship of medical devices and
   ability of healthcare agencies to satisfy environmental targets, for example, the LEED system
 5 while reducing the impact on landfills, without sacrificing safety, there is a growing emphasis
   on manufacturing medical devices made from recycled plastics. Previous attempts to use
   recycled resins in manufacturing of medical devices or their components have encountered
   obstacles such as lack of biocompatibility, lot-to-lot variability in properties, and undesirable
   changes to the appearance during the sterilization process. Furthermore, when recycled resin
10 compositions are used to form fluid path contact medical devices, there is a concern that the
   recycled resin compositions will interfere with the material being transmitted, carried or
   delivered through the medical device.
   [0005]           Accordingly, there is a need in the industry for thermoplastic compositions
   comprised of recycled resin compositions that are biocompatible, sterilization-stable and are
15 useful for medical device applications. Such recycled resin compositions are not limited to
   medical device applications and would apply to any industry that may utilize such
   compositions that are sterilization-stable.
   SUMMARY
   [0006]           A first aspect of the present invention pertains to a medical device. In one or
20 more embodiments, the medical device is formed from a sterilization-stable recycled resin
   composition. In a more specific embodiment, the medical device is capable of withstanding
   sterilization that includes exposure to gamma rays in the range from about 5 kGys to about 75
   kGys. The medical device may be capable of withstanding sterilization that includes exposure
   to an electron beam in the range from about 40 kGys to about lOOkGys or exposure to X-ray
25 radiation, exposure to ethylene oxide gas, autoclaving, plasma sterilization and other types of
   sterilization. At least a portion of the medical device of one or more embodiments may include
   a fluid-path contact medical device or medical device that is in contact with fluid.
   [0007]           In one or more embodiments, the recycled resin composition is biocompatible,
   as defined above. The composition may include recycled resin that may be present in an
30 amount in the range from about 0.1% to about 100% by weight. The recycled resin may
   include one of post-industrial recycled resin, post-consumer recycled resin and combinations

                                                    3
   thereof. In one or more embodiments, the recycled resin composition may include one or more
   of a virgin resin component and/or a biobased resin component.
   [0008]           The recycled resin composition may also include one or more of an antioxidant
   component, slip additive component, anti-static component, impact modifier component,
 5 colorant component, acid scavenger component, x-ray fluorescence agent component, radio
   opaque filler component, surface modifier component, processing aid component, melt
   stabilizer, clarifiers and reinforcing agent component. The anti-oxidant component may
   include one or more of hindered phenols and hindered amines and may optionally be present in
   an amount in up to about 10% by weight of the recycled resin composition. The impact
10 modifier component utilized in one or more embodiments may include one or more of
   ethylene-butene copolymer and ethylene octane copolymer. The
   acid scavenger component may include one or more of calcium stearate, dihydro talcite,
   calcium lactate and monopotassium citrate. The radio opaque filler may include one or more
   of barium sulfate, bismuth subcarbonate, bismuth trioxide, bismuth oxychloride and tungsten,
15 while the colorant component may include organic dyes, inorganic pigments, carbon black,
   channel black and titanium dioxide. The processing aid component utilized in one or more
   embodiments may include one or more of a fatty acid ester, fatty acid amide, wax and oxidized
   polyethylene. The reinforcing agent component may include one or more of glass fibers,
   cinderash, natural fibers and minerals, carbon fibers, ceramic fillers, which may be provided as
20 nanoparticles or nanofibers.
   [0009]           The medical device of one or more embodiments may include a plunger rod,
   needle shield, handle, safety shield. In embodiments in which the medical device is a plunger
   rod, it exhibits functional performance that is acceptable to users including clinicians. In other
   words, the plunger rod may exhibit functional performance that is the same or greater than the
25 functional performance exhibited by plunger rods formed from a non-recycled resin
   composition. The medical devices described herein may be formed by molding or extruding.
   [0010]           A second aspect of the present invention pertains to a composition for molding
   a medical device. The composition includes a recycled resin sourced from a traceable source
   and may optionally include one or more of an antioxidant component, slip additive component,
30 anti-static component, impact modifier component, colorant component, acid scavenger
   component, x-ray fluorescence agent component, radio opaque filler component, surface
   modifier component, processing aid component, melt stabilizer component, clarifier

                                                    4
   component, nucleating agents and reinforcing agent component, as otherwise described above.
   In one or more embodiments, the composition is capable of withstanding exposure to gamma
   rays in the range from about 5 kGys to about 75 kGys. In another variant, the composition is
   capable of withstanding exposure to electron beams in the range from about 30 kGys to about
 5  100 kGys. The composition may also optionally be capable of withstanding exposure to one of
   X-ray radiation, ethylene oxide gas, autoclaving and plasma sterilization.
   [0011]          The composition may be utilized to form the medical devices described herein.
   The composition may include one or more of a virgin resin component and a biobased resin
   component.
10 [0012]          A third aspect of the present invention pertains to a method of forming a
   medical device. In one or more embodiments, the method includes providing a melt blend
   composition including a 50% to 99% recycled resin component, stabilizing the composition to
   withstand exposure to gamma rays, electron beams, X-ray radiations, ethylene oxide gas,
   autoclave, plasma sterilization and solidifying the composition in a pre-selected shape. In one
15 or more embodiments, the method includes stabilizing the composition to withstand exposure
   to gamma rays in the range from about 5 kGys to about 75kGys.
   [0013]          In one or more embodiments, the step of providing a melt blend composition
   includes feeding a recycled resin component and one or more of an antioxidant component,
   slip additive component, anti-static component, impact modifier component, colorant
20 component, acid scavenger component, nucleating agents, clarifiers, x-ray fluorescence agent
   component, radio opaque filler component, surface modifier component, processing aid
   component and reinforcing agent component into a melt compounding extruder. The step of
   solidifying the composition may include injection molding the composition, extruding the
   composition, blow molding the composition and rotational molding the composition.
25 [0014]          In one or more embodiments, the composition may be solidified in a pre
   selected shape that includes one of a plunger rod, a syringe barrel, a catheter, a blood collection
   device, a surgical blade handle, a needle shield, safety shield, catheter wings, catheter flow
   control plugs and a needle hub, sharps containers, body fluid collection devices, tubing,
   adapters and drainage tubes.
30 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
   [0015]          Figure 1 illustrates an exploded view of a syringe assembly of one or more
   embodiments of the present invention; and

                                                      5
   [0016]           Figure 2 illustrates a perspective view of a scalpel and scalpel shield according
   to one or more embodiments.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   [0017]           Before describing several exemplary embodiments of the invention, it is to be
 5 understood that the invention is not limited to the details of construction or process steps set
   forth in the following description. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being
   practiced or being carried out in various ways.
   [0018]           As used herein, the term "medical device" shall include all devices and
   components used in conjunction with other components in devices that are used in all medical
10 and/or laboratory purposes, excluding waste collection containers such as sharps collection
   containers.    Medical devices include syringe assemblies, including syringe barrels, plunger
   rods, catheters, needle hubs and needle shields, safety shields, surgical blades, surgical handles,
   sharps containers, body fluid collection devices, tubing, adapters, shunts, drainage tubes,
   guidewires, stents, petri dishes, culture bottles, centrifuge tubes, blood collection devices and
15 the like. As indicated, as used herein "medical devices" excludes waste collection containers
   such as sharps collection containers.
   [0019]           As used herein, the term "biocompatible" shall mean any substance that is not
   toxic to the body or biological environment or does not produce an undesirable biological
   response during the period of exposure to the human body. A composition is biocompatible if
20 the composition, and any degradation products of the composition, are non-toxic to the
   recipient or biological environment and also present no significant deleterious effects on the
   biological environment. A medical device is biocompatible if the medical device, and any
   degradation products of the medical device, are non-toxic to the recipient or biological
   environment and also present no significant deleterious effects on the biological environment.
25 [0020]           In addition, as used herein, the term "sterilization-stable" shall mean the ability
   of a medical device or component to withstand sterilization without significant loss of
   functional performance and mechanical properties.              Sterilization includes exposure to
   radiation, for example, gamma rays and/or X-rays, during the sterilization process. Medical
   devices or components thereof that are capable of withstanding radiation sterilization without
30 significant loss of functional performance may be referred to as "radiation stable." An example
   of a sterilization process may include exposure of a medical device to high energy photons that
   are emitted from an isotope source, for example Cobalt 60, which produces ionization or

                                                     6
   electron disruptions throughout the medical device. Sterilization may also include ethylene
   oxide sterilization, electron bean sterilization, autoclave (steam sterilization), plasma
   sterilization, dry heat sterilization, and X-ray beam sterilization.
   [0021]           As used herein, "fluid path contact medical devices" are medical devices
 5 wherein at least a portion of the medical device comes into contact or interacts with fluids
   and/or solids, for example, medications, solutions of medications, drug containing solutions,
   flush solutions, body fluids, human tissue, or any material that is intended to be isolated to
   prevent contamination.        As used herein, reference to a medical device "formed from a
   sterilization-stable recycled resin composition" means that the device is manufactured, for
10 example, shaped from a resin obtained from recycled resin. Accordingly, a medical device
   "formed from a sterilization-stable recycled resin composition" does not include a medical
   device that is used, and then reprocessed by cleaning or sterilization of a part of or the entire
   device by radiation or in an autoclave. Such reuse of medical device is often referred to as
   "reprocessing", and reprocessed medical devices are not within the scope of a device formed
15 from a sterilization-stable recycled resin composition because such reprocessing does not
   include shaping or other manufacturing process to form a device from a resin composition
   [0022]           A first aspect of the present invention pertains to compositions for use in
   molding a medical device that includes a recycled resin from a traceable source. A second
   aspect of the present invention pertains to a medical device that is formed from a recycled resin
20 composition. A third aspect of the present invention pertains to a method of forming a medical
   device.
   [0023]           The recycled resin compositions of one or more embodiments of the first aspect
   may include a post-industrial recycled resin. The amount of post-industrial recycled resin may
   be present in the recycled resin composition in the range from about 0.1% to about 100% by
25 weight of the recycled resin composition. In one or more embodiments, the recycled resin
   composition includes post-industrial recycled resin in an amount in the range from about 50%
   to about 99% by weight. In one or more specific embodiments, the recycled resin composition
   may include post-industrial recycled resin in an amount in the range from about 20% to about
   80% by weight.       In a more specific embodiment, the lower limit of the amount of post
30 industrial recycled resin may include 25%, 30%, 35%, 40%, 45% and 50% by weight of the
   recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. The upper limit of the

                                                     7
   amount of post-industrial recycled resin may include 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, 55% and 50% by
   weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.
   [0024]          The recycled resin compositions of one or more embodiments of the first aspect
   may include a post-consumer recycled resin. The resin may be provided in any suitable form,
 5 such as in the form of flakes, chips, pellets and the like. In one variant, the recycled resin
   compositions may include post-consumer recycled resin and post-industrial recycled resin.
   The amount of post-consumer recycled resin may be present in the recycled resin composition
   in the range from about 0.1% to about 100% by weight of the recycled resin composition. In
   one or more embodiments, the recycled resin composition includes post- consumer recycled
10 resin in an amount in the range from about 50% to about 99% by weight. In one or more
   specific embodiments, the recycled resin composition may include post-consumer recycled
   resin in an amount in the range from about 20% to about 80% by weight. In a more specific
   embodiment, the lower limit of the amount of post- consumer recycled resin may include 25%,
   30%, 35%, 40%, 45% and 50% by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and
15 sub-ranges therebetween. The upper limit of the amount of post- consumer recycled resin may
   include 75%, 70%, 65%, 60%, 55% and 50% by weight of the recycled resin composition and
   all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.
   [0025]           Examples   of suitable post-industrial recycled resins        and post-consumer
   recycled resins include polypropylene, polycarbonates, nylons, polyethyleneterphthalates,
20 polyesters,   polyethylenes, polystyrenes, poly lactic acid, polyhyroxyalkanoates, bioderived
   polyolefins including polyethylene and polypropylene and other resins known in the art that
   are recyclable and combinations thereof. The recycled resins may have been recovered or
   otherwise diverted from the solid waste stream, either during the manufacturing process (pre
   consumer), or after consumer use (post-consumer).
25 [0026]          In one or more embodiments, the recycled resin composition may also include
   one or more of the optional additives. These optional additives are selected from the group
   consisting of anti-oxidants, slip additives, anti-static agents, impact modifiers, a colorants, acid
   scavengers, X-ray fluorescence agents, radio opaque fillers, surface modifiers, processing aids
   including melt stabilizers, nucleating agents including clarifiers, flame retardants, inorganic
30 fillers other than finely powdered talc, organic fillers and other polymers and reinforcing
   agents.

                                                    8
   [0027]          In one or more embodiments, the recycled resin composition includes an anti
   oxidant component. The anti-oxidant component may include chemical compounds that inhibit
   oxidation via chain terminating reactions.      In one or more embodiments, the anti-oxidant
   component may be present in the recycled resin composition in an amount up to about 10% by
 5 weight of the recycled resin composition. In one or more specific embodiments, the recycled
   resin composition may include an anti-oxidant component in an amount of up to about 5% by
   weight or, more specifically, an amount of up to about 1% by weight of the recycled resin
   composition.     In one or more specific embodiments, the anti-oxidant component may be
   present in an amount in the range from about 1% by weight to about 5% by weight of the
10 recycled resin composition. In an even more specific embodiment, the anti-oxidant component
   may be present in an amount in the range from about 0.1% to about 1% by weight of the
   recycled resin composition. The upper limit of the amount of the anti-oxidant component may
   include 0.9%, 0.8%, 0.7%, 0.6% and 0.5% and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.
   [0028]          In one or more embodiments, the anti-oxidant component is present in an
15 amount sufficient to inhibit oxidation reactions during sterilization and over the shelf life
   and/or use-phase of the product.
   [0029]          Non-exclusive examples of suitable anti-oxidant components include hindered
   phenols, hindered amines, phosphites and/or combinations thereof. Hindered phenols include
   chemical compounds that act as hydrogen donors and react with peroxy radicals to form
20 hydroperoxides and prevent the abstraction of hydrogen from the polymer backbone. Suitable
   hindered phenols include buylated hydroxytoluene.         Other suitable hindered phenols are
   available under the trademark Irganox* 1076, Irganox* 1010, and Irganox*E 201, from Ciba,
   Inc., now part of BASF Corporation of Ludwigshafen, Germany. Other examples of hindered
   phenols include BNX*1010 and BNX*1076TF from Mayzo Inc. or Norcross, Georgia, U.S.A.
25 Suitable hindered phenols are also available under the trademark Ethanox*330 and
   Ethanox*376 from Albemarle Corporation of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, U.S.A.
   [0030]          Hindered amines include chemical compounds containing an amine functional
   group surrounded by a steric environment. They are extremely efficient stabilizers against
   light-induced degradation of most polymers. Examples of suitable hindered amines include
30 bis(1,2,2,6,6-pentamethyl-4-piperidinyl)-2-n-butyl-2-(3,5-di-tert-butyl-4
   hydroxybenzyl)malonate;        bis(2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidinyl)sebacate,    bis(1,2,3,6,6
   pentamethyl-4-piperidinyl)sebacate     and bis(1,2,2,6,6-pentamethyl-4-piperidinyl)sebacate     .

                                                     9
           These are commonly referred to as Tinuvin 144, Tinuvin 770, Tinuvin 292 and Tinuvin
   765 respectively and are available from the Ciba-Geigy Corporation, now part of BASF
   Corporation of Ludwigshafen, Germany. Other examples of suitable hindered amines are
   available under the tradenames Uvasorb HA-88 from 3V Sigma SpA of Bergamo, Italy, and
 5 Chimassorb 944 and Chimassorb 994 from BASF Corporation of Ludwigshafen, Germany.
   [0031]          In specific embodiments, the recycled resin composition includes a slip additive
   component. The slip additive component may include chemical compounds reduce the surface
   coefficient of friction of polymers and are used to enhance either processing or end
   applications. The slip additive component may be present in the recycled resin composition in
10 an amount in the range from about 0.001% to about 5 % by weight of the recycled resin
   composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.               In one or more specific
   embodiments, the slip additive component is present in an amount in the range from about 1%
   to about 2% by weight of the recycled resin composition. The upper limit of the amount of the
   slip additive component may include 4.5%, 4.0%, 3.5%, 3.0%, and 2.5% by weight of the
15 recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. The lower limit of the
   amount of the slip additive component may include 0.1%, 0.2%, 0.3%, 0.4%, 0.5%, 0.6%,
   0.7%, 0.8%, and 0.9%by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub
   ranges therebetween.      Examples of suitable slip additive components include oleamides,
   erucamide,    Oleyl palmitamide, Stearyl erucamide, Ethylene-bis-oleamide,             waxes and
20 combinations thereof.
   [0032]          The recycled resin composition optionally includes an anti-static component.
   The anti-static component may include chemical compounds that prevent or reduce the
   accumulation of static electricity. The anti-static component acts to permit the body or surface
   of the material to be static dissipative, preventing the formation of static charges and hindering
25 the fixation of dust. The anti-static component may be incorporated in the material before
   molding, or applied to the surface after molding and function either by being inherently static
   dissipative or by absorbing moisture from the air. The anti-static component may be present in
   the recycled resin composition in an amount in the range from about 0.01% to about 5% by
   weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. In one
30 or more specific embodiments, the anti-static component is present in an amount in the range
   form about 0.1% to about 3.0% by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and
   sub-ranges therebetween.      The upper limit of the amount of the anti-static component may

                                                    10
   include 4.5%, 4.0%, 3.5%, 3.0% and 2.5% by weight of the recycled resin composition and all
   ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.         The lower limit of the amount of the anti-static
   component may include 0.1%, 0.2%, 0.3%, 0.4%, 0.5%, 0.6%, 0.7%, 0.8%, 0.9% and 1.0% by
   weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.
 5 Examples of anti-static agent components are long-chain aliphatic amines and amides,
   phosphate esters, quaternary ammonium salts, polyethylene glycols, polyethylene glycol esters,
   ethoxylated long-chained aliphatic amines and combinations thereof. Other examples of
   suitable anti-static agents are available under the trade name Pelestat 230 and Pelestat 300 from
   Toyota Tsusho Corporation of Nagoya, Japan, AtmerV 163 from Uniqema, now part of Croda
10 International Plc of Yorkshire, England, U.K, EntiraTM MK 400 from E.I DuPont de Nemours
   and Company of Wilmington, Delaware, U.S.A and Nourymix@ AP 375 and 775 from Akzo
   Nobel N.V. of Amsterdam, the Netherlands.
   [0033]          The recycled resin composition optionally includes an impact modifier
   component. The impact modifier component may include chemical compounds for improving
15 the impact resistance of finished articles or devices. The impact modifier component may be
   present in the recycled resin composition in an amount in the range from about 0.1% to about
   30% by weight of the recycled resin composition. In one or more specific embodiments, the
   impact modifier component is present in an amount in the range form about 0.5% to about 5%
   by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. The
20 upper limit of the amount of impact modifier component may include 4.5%, 4.0%, 3.5%, 3.0%,
   2.5% and 2.0% by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges
   therebetween.     The lower limit of the amount of impact modifier component may include
   0.75%, 1.0%, 1.25%, 1.5%, 1.75% and 2.0% by weight of the recycled resin composition and
   all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.      Examples of suitable impact modifier components
25 include ethylene-butene       copolymers, ethylene      octene copolymers, ethylene-propylene
   copolymers, methacrylate butadiene-styrene core shell impact modifiers and combinations
   thereof. Examples of suitable impact modifier agents are available under the trade name
   Elvaloy@ EAC3427 from E.I DuPont de Nemours and Company of Wilmington, Delaware,
   U.S.A., Engage Tm and VersifyTm from the Dow Chemical Company of Midland, Michigan,
30 U.S.A. and Clearstrength m from Arkema Inc. of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
   [0034]          When present, the impact modifier component can be present in an amount
   sufficient to meet the impact requirements of the fabricated medical article.

                                                    11
   [0035]          The recycled resin composition optionally includes         an acid scavenger
   component. The acid scavenger component may include chemical compounds for preventing
   discoloration or premature aging of the polymer as well as the fabricated medical article from
   the acidic impurities during the course of manufacturing, processing, sterilization, shelf life or
 5 use phase. For example, such chemical compounds may neutralize halogen anions found in
   resin compositions that may be formed due to the influence of heat and shear during
   processing. The acid scavenger component scavenges these halogenic acids to prevent polymer
   degradation or corrosion. The acid scavenger component may be present in the recycled resin
   composition in an amount in the range from about 0.01% to about 1% by weight of the
10 recycled resin composition.       In one or more specific embodiments, the acid scavenger
   component is present in an amount in the range form about 0.1% to about 0.5% by weight of
   the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. The upper limit of
   the amount of acid scavenger component may include 0.6%, 0.7%, 0.8%, and 0.9% by weight
   of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. The lower limit
15 of the amount of acid scavenger component may include 0.01%, 0.02%, 0.03%, 0.04%. 0.05%,
   0.06%. 0.07%, 0.08% and 0.09% by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges
   and sub-ranges therebetween. Examples of suitable acid scavenger components include metal
   salts of long chain carboxylic acids like calcium, zinc or sodium stearates, lactates, natural or
   synthetic silicates like hydrotalcites, metal oxides (e.g. magnesium oxide, calcium oxide, zinc
20 oxide), metal carbonates (e.g. calcium carbonate) or metal hydroxides (see e.g. A Holzner, K
   Chmil in H. Zweifel, Plastic Additives Handbook, 5th Ed., Hanser Publisher, Munich 2001,
   Chapter 4 Acid Scavengers). Suitable examples of acid scavengers include calcium stearate,
   dihydro talcite, calcium lactate, mono potassium citrate and combinations thereof.
   [0036]          When present, the acid scavenger component can be present in the recycled
25 resin composition in an amount sufficient to inhibit discoloration and prevent degradation
   caused by acidic impurities during manufacturing, processing, storage, shelf life or use phase
   of polymer and medical article fabricated therefrom.
   [0037]          Another optional component of the recycled resin composition is a radio opaque
   filler component.    The radio opaque filler component may include chemical compounds for
30 that cause medical devices formed from the resin composition to be visible under fluoroscopy
   or x-ray imaging.     The radio opaque filler component may be present in the recycled resin
   composition in an amount in the range from about 10% to about 48% by weight of the recycled

                                                   12
   resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.          In one or more specific
   embodiments, the radio opaque filler component is present in an amount in the range from
   about 22% to about 25% by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub
   ranges therebetween. The upper limit of the amount of the radio opaque filler component may
 5 include 26%, 28%, 30%, 32%, 34%, 36%, 38%, 40%, 42%, 44% and 46% by weight of the
   recycled resin composition and all ranges and subranges therebetween. The lower limit of the
   amount of the radio opaque filler component may include 11%, 12%, 13%,        , 14%, 15%, 16%,
    17%, 18%, 19% and 20% by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and
   subranges therebetween. Higher percentages of radio opaque filler component may also be
10 used. For example, the amount of the radio opaque filler component may be more than about
   50% by weight of the recycled resin composition. Examples of suitable radio opaque filler
   components include barium sulfate, bismuth subcarbonate, bismuth trioxide, bismuth
   oxychloride, tungsten and combinations thereof.
   [0038]           The radio opaque filler component can be present in an amount sufficient to
15 enable visibility of the medical devices using x-ray and other radiology imaging techniques.
   [0039]          The recycled resin composition further optionally includes a surface modifier
   component. The surface modifier component may include chemical compounds or materials
   which tailor the surface of the fabricated component(s) to meet or enhance adhesion, lubricity
   and/or physical properties.    The surface modifier component may be present in the recycled
20 resin composition in an amount in the range from about 0.1% to about 10% by weight of the
   recycled resin composition.      In one or more specific embodiments, the surface modifier
   component is present in an amount in the range form about 0.5% to about 5%, more preferably
   between 0.2 to 1%by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges
   therebetween. The upper limit of the amount of the surface modifier component may include
25  1.5%, 2.0%, 3.0%, 3.5%, 4.0% and 4.5% and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. The
   lower limit of the amount of the surface modifier component may include 0.3%, 0.35%, 0.4%
   and 0.45% by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges
   therebetween. In one or more embodiments, higher percentages of surface modifiers may also
   be used. Examples of suitable surface modifier components include diatomaceous earth, talc,
30 calcium carbonate, organosilanes, titanates, maleated polyolefins, powdered PTFE and
   combinations thereof.

                                                 13
   [0040]         The surface modifier can be present in the recycled resin composition in an
   amount sufficient to impart desirable surface property to the surface of the fabricated medical
   device.
   [0041]         In one or more embodiments, the recycled resin composition includes a colorant
 5 component. The colorant component may be present in the recycled resin composition in an
   amount in the range from about 0.01% to about 5% by weight of the recycled resin
   composition. In one or more specific embodiments, the colorant component(s) are present in
   an amount in the range form about 0.5% to about 3% by weight of the recycled resin
   composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. The upper limit of the amount of
10 colorant component may include 3.25%, 3.5%, 3.75%, 4.0%, 4.25%, 4.5% and 4.75% by
   weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.       The
   lower limit of the amount of the colorant component may include 0.1%, 0.15%, 0.2%, 0.25%,
   0.3%, 0.35%, 0.4% and 0.45% by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and
   sub-ranges therebetween.     Examples of suitable colorant components include organic dyes,
15 inorganic pigments, carbon black, channel black, titanium dioxide and combinations thereof.
   Organic dyes may include Phthalocyanine blue and Phthalocyanine green, and FD&C
   colorants. Exemplary inorganic pigments include ultramarines and iron oxides.
   [0042]         Another optional component of the recycled resin composition includes a
   processing aid component. The processing aid component may include chemical compounds
20 which improve the processability of high molecular weight polymers, reduces the cycle time
   and help improve quality of finished products. The processing aid component may be present
   in the recycled resin composition in an amount in the range from about 0.05% to about 5% by
   weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. In one
   or more specific embodiments, the processing aid component is present in an amount in the
25 range form about 0.1 to about 3%by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges
   and sub-ranges therebetween. The upper limit of the amount of colorant component may
   include 3.25%, 3.5%, 3.75%, 4.0%, 4.25%, 4.5% and 4.75% by weight of the recycled resin
   composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. The lower limit of the amount of the
   colorant component may include 0.06%, 0.07%, 0.08% and 0.09% by weight of the recycled
30 resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.          Higher percentages of
   processing aid may also be used.     Examples of suitable processing aid components include
   fatty acid esters, fatty acid amines, waxes, oxidized polyethylenes, colloidal fumed silica

                                                      14
   particles and combinations thereof. Colloidal fumed silica particles are available under the
   tradename Nan-O-Sil ASD from Energy Strategy Associates, Inc. of Old Chatham, New York,
   USA. Glycerol monostearates and bisstearaamides are suitable fatty acid esters and fatty acid
   amides.
 5 [0043]           The recycled resin composition may optionally include a nucleating agents
   and/or clarifier component. Nucleating agents may include chemical compounds that enhance
   resin performance properties such as stiffness and heat resistance. A clarifier may also be
   added to enhance the aesthetic appeal of a formed product by making it more transparent. In
   one or more embodiments, the nucleating and/or clarifier component is present in an amount in
10 the range from about 0.005% to about 3% by weight of the recycled resin composition. Higher
   percentages of nucleating and/or clarifying agents may be used but generally provide no
   perceived advantages. In one or more specific embodiments, the clarifier component is present
   in an amount in the range from about 0.05 to about 0.5% by weight of the recycled resin
   composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. The upper limit of the amount of the
15 clarifier component may include 1.0%, 1.5%, 2.0% and 2.5% by weight of the recycled resin
   composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. The lower limit of the amount of the
   clarifier component may include 0.01%, 0.015%, 0.02%, 0.025%, 0.03%, 0.035%, 0.04% and
   0.045% by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges
   therebetween. Examples of clarifier components include dibenzylidene sorbitol as described in
20 U.S.    Patent No. 4,016,118,       which is incorporated      herein by reference,     substituted
   dibenzylidene sorbitol as described in U.S. Patent No. 4,371,645, which is incorporated herein
   by reference, and dibenzylidene sorbitol thioether derivatives as described in U.S Patent No.
   4,994,552, which is incorporated herein by reference.
   [0044]           When present, the clarifiers can be present in an amount sufficient such that the
25 size of the size of the crystals in the resulting resin composition is smaller than the wavelength
   of visible light to prevent light scattering, which causes opacity.
   [0045]           The recycled resin composition optionally includes a reinforcing agent
   component.       The reinforcing agent component may be present in the recycled resin
   composition in an amount in the range from about 1%to about 35% by weight of the recycled
30 resin composition. In one or more specific embodiments, the reinforcing agent component(s)
   are present in an amount in the range from about 5% to about 30% by weight of the recycled
   resin composition and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween. The upper limit of the amount

                                                  15
   of the reinforcing agent component may include 30.5%, 31%, 31.5%, 32%, 32.5%, 33%,
   33.5%, 34% and 34.5% by weight of the recycled resin composition and all ranges and sub
   ranges therebetween. The lower limit of the amount of the reinforcing agent component may
   include 1.5%, 2%, 2.5%, 3%, 3.5%, 4% and 4.5% by weight of the recycled resin composition
 5 and all ranges and sub-ranges therebetween.          Examples of suitable reinforcing agent
   components include glass fibers, cinderash, natural fibers and minerals, carbon fibers, ceramic
   fibers, and combinations thereof. Examples of natural fibers include flax fibers and kenaf
   fibers and fillers.  The reinforcing agent component may be present in the recycled resin
   composition in the form of nanofibers and/or nanoparticles.
10 [0046]          The recycled resin composition according to one or more embodiments may
   optionally include a melt stabilizer component. The melt stabilizer component may include
   chemical compounds for adjusting the viscosity of the recycled resin composition during a
   melting process.
   [0047]          The recycled resin composition may also optionally incorporate a non-recycled
15 resin component. Examples of a non-recycled resin component include virgin resin
   components, biobased resin components and combinations thereof. Virgin resin components
   are resin compositions that do not include a significant amount of recycled resin. In one or
   more embodiments, virgin resin components are free of recycled resin. Virgin resin
   components may also include "fossil fuel-based polymers" or "petroleum based polymers,"
20 which shall be used interchangeably, and include, without limitation, polymers formed from
   non-renewable sources such as fossil fuel sources.      Such polymers include polypropylene,
   polyethylene not derived from sugar or other renewable resources, polycarbonate.
   [0048]          The term "biobased" may be used interchangeably with the terms "bioformed"
   and "bioderived." The biobased component includes polymers that are derived, produced or
25 synthesized in whole or in significant part, from biological sources or renewable domestic
   agricultural materials (including plant, animal, and marine materials) or forestry materials.
   The biobased component includes polymers in which carbon is derived from a renewable
   resource via biological processes such as microbiological fermentation.          The biobased
   component may also include polymers with cellulose-based materials of different grades. The
30 biobased component may also include polymers are that substantially free of materials derived
   from fossil fuel or non-renewable resources as determined by ASTM D6866-08.

                                                  16
   [0049]         The biobased component used herein may include polymers which are derived
   from biological sources, such as plants, and include polysaccharide-derived polymers, such as
   starch- or carbohydrate-derived polymers, and sugar-derived polymers. The starch used to
   form bioformed polymers may be derived from corn, potatoes, wheat, cassava, rice and other
 5 plants. An example of a composition containing bioformed polymer derived from starch is
   available from Cereplast Inc., Hawthorne, California, U.S.A., under the trademarks and trade
   names Cereplast Hybrid Resins , Bio-polyolefins , or Biopropylene 50      . The sugar used to
   form such bioformed polymers may be derived from sugar cane. Such sugar-derived polymers
   include polyethylene, which may be produced from ethanol derived from sugar cane, which is
10 then used to produce ethylene and polymers are available from Novamount S.P.A., Novara,
   Italy under the trademark MATER-BI®. Other examples of bioformed polymers are described
   in U.S. Patent No. 7,393,590, U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2008/0113887 and
   2008/0153940, PCT Application Publication Nos. W007/099427 and W007/063361 and
   European Patent No. 1725614, each of which is incorporated herein in their entirety by
15 reference. A specific example of a bioformed polymer includes "poly(lactic acid)" or "PLA,"
   which may include a synthetic polymer produced from cane sugar or cornstarch.         PLA is
   available from NatureWorks LLC, Minnetonka, Minnesota, U.S.A., under the trade name
   IngeoTM.    Embodiments utilizing PLA may also include an ethylene copolymer. Ethylene
   copolymers are available from E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Wilmington,
20 Delaware, U.S.A., under the trademark BIOMAX®.
   [0050]         Biobased component includes polymers may also be produced from microbes.
   Microorganisms produce substances, including polymers, by growth on feedstock, including
   sugar feedstock. The production of these polymers may also involve bacterial fermentation of
   sugar or lipids. The biobased component may be further treated or synthesized from natural
25 products.    Examples of such produced and/or synthesized biobased polymers include
   polyhydroxyalkanoates The term "polyhydroxyalkanoate" or "PHA" includes linear polyesters
   produced in nature by bacterial fermentation of sugar or lipids. Examples of PHAs include
   poly(hydroxybutyrate) and poly(hydroxyvalerate) or "PHBV." PHAs may exhibit properties
   such as elasticity.   PHAs are available from Metabolix, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts,
30 U.S.A., under the trademark MIREL
   [0051]         Recycled resin compositions according to one or more embodiments, are
   biocompatible, as defined herein. In one or more embodiments, the recycled resin composition

                                                  17
   is capable of withstanding exposure to gamma rays, electron beams, X-rays, ethylene oxide
   gas, dry heat, peroxide gas plasma, peracetic acid, steam autoclave and other means of
   sterilization. In one or more embodiments, the recycled resin composition is radiation stable
   and capable of withstanding exposure to gamma rays in the range from about 5 kGys to about
 5 75 kGys, or more specifically, in the range from about 25 kGys to about 50 kGys. In one or
   more embodiments, the recycled resin composition is capable of withstanding exposure to
   electron beams in the range from about 30 kGys to about 80 kGys, or, more specifically, in the
   range from about 40 kGys to about 70 kGys.
   [0052]          The recycled resin composition according to one or more embodiments has a
10 melt flow rate in the range from about 3 dg/minute to about 80 dg/minute. In one or more
   specific embodiments, the recycled resin composition has a melt flow rate in the range from
   about 8 dg/minute to about 40 dg/minute. In even more specific embodiments, the recycled
   resin composition has a melt flow rate in the range from about 11 dg/minute to about 30
   dg/minute. As used herein, the term "melt flow rate" refers to the ease of flow of the melt of
15 the recycled resin compositions described herein.
   [0053]          The recycled resin compositions described herein may have a flexural modulus
   in the range from about 70 kpsi to 350 kpsi and all ranges and subranges therebetween as
   measured according to ASTM D790 test method. In one or more specific embodiments, the
   recycled resin compositions have a flexural modulus in the range from about 100 kpsi to about
20 300 kpsi. In even more specific embodiments, the recycled resin compositions exhibits a
   flexural modulus in the range from about 130 kpsi to about 270 kpsi.
   [0054]          The recycled resin composition may be characterized by having notched izod
   impact strength in the range from about 0.1 ft-lb/in, to about 4.0 ft-lb/in and all ranges and
   subranges as measured according to ASTM D256 test method. In one or more embodiments,
25 the recycled resin composition may have notched izod impact strength in the range from about
   0.2 ft-lb/in. to about 1.5 ft-lb/in. In one or more specific embodiments, the recycled resin
   composition may have a notched izod impact strength in the range from about 0.3 ft-lb/in. to
   about 1.0 ft-lb/in. As used herein, the term "notched izod impact strength" refers to the ASTM
   standard method of determining impact strength.
30 [0055]           One or more embodiments of the recycled resin composition described herein
   may be characterized by having a heat deflection temperature in the range from about 60 'C to
   about 260 'C. As used herein, the term "heat deflection temperature" includes a measure of a

                                                   18
   polymer's resistance to distortion under a given load at elevated temperature.       The heat
   deflection temperature is also known as the 'deflection temperature under load' (DTUL),
   deflection temperature, or 'heat distortion temperature' (HDT). The two common loads used to
   determine heat deflection temperature are 0.46 MPa (66 psi) and 1.8 MPa (264 psi), although
 5 tests performed at higher loads such as 5.0 MPa (725 psi) or 8.0 MPa (1160 psi) are
   occasionally encountered. The common ASTM test is ASTM D 648 while the analogous ISO
   test is ISO 75. The test using a 1.8 MPa load is performed under ISO 75 Method A while the
   test using a 0.46 MPa load is performed under ISO 75 Method B. In one or more specific
   embodiments, the recycled resin composition may have a heat deflection temperature in the
10 range from about 68 'C to about 140 'C. In even more specific embodiments, the recycled
   resin composition may have a heat deflection temperature in the range from about 70 'C to
   about 95 'C.     In one or more embodiments which utilize a post-industrial recycled resin
   component comprising polycarbonate, the recycled resin composition has a heat deflection
   temperature of about 140 'C at a load of 0.46 MPa and 130 'C at a load of 1.8 MPa. In one or
15 more embodiments which utilize a post-industrial recycled resin component comprising nylon
   and a reinforcing agent component including glass fibers, the recycled resin composition has a
   heat deflection temperature of about 220 'C at a load of 0.46 MPa and 200 'C at a load of 1.8
   MPa. In embodiments which utilize a post-industrial recycled resin component comprising
   PET and a reinforcing agent component including glass fibers, the recycled resin composition
20 has a heat deflection temperature of about 250 'C at a load of 0.46 MPa and 230 'C at a load of
    1.8 MPa.
   [0056]          Preparation of the recycled resin compositions of this invention can be
   accomplished by any suitable blending or mixing means known in the art. The blending step
   should, at least minimally, disperse the components amongst each other. The components may
25 be blended together in a one-step process or a multi-step process. In the one-step process, all
   the components are blended together at the same time. In the multiple-step process, two or
   more components are blended together to form a first mixture and then one or more of the
   remaining components are blended with the first mixture. If one or more components still
   remain, these components may be blended in subsequent mixing steps. In one or more
30 embodiments, all the components are blended in a single step.
   [0057]          In one or more alternative        embodiments,    the recycled polypropylene
   composition may be prepared by dry blending the individual components and subsequently

                                                   19
   melt mixing, either directly in the extruder used to make the finished article, or premixing in a
   separate extruder. Dry blends of the composition may also be directly injection molded without
   pre-melt mixing.
   [0058]          The recycled resin compositions disclosed herein are utilized to mold, extrude
 5 or otherwise form a medical device. In one or more embodiments, the medical device is
   disposable.    For example, the medical devices may be formed from the recycled resin
   compositions described herein may be used in injection, infusion, blood collection, surgical
   applications and other applications known in the art. Specific examples of medical devices that
   may be formed form the recycled resin compositions described herein include syringes
10 (including syringe barrels, needle hub parts, plunger rods, needle shields and the like), safety
   syringes, catheters, blood collection devices, surgical blades or scalpels and other such devices
   and components. In one or more alternative embodiments, the medical device may be entirely
   or partially molded from a recycled resin composition. For example, the inside surface of a
   syringe barrel may be formed from a resin composition that is not recycled while the outside
15 surface of the syringe barrel or the finger flanges of the syringe barrel are made from a
   recycled resin composition. In one or more alternative embodiments, the scalpel handle or
   needle shield are formed from a recycled resin composition.
   [0059]          In one or more embodiments, the medical devices formed from the recycled
   resin compositions described herein may be characterized as non-fluid path contact
20 components or medical devices. As such, the medical devices and components do not interact
   or come into contact with fluids and/or solids, for example, medications, solutions of
   medications, drug containing solutions, flush solutions, body fluids, human tissue, or any
   material that is intended to be isolated to prevent contamination.     Examples of such devices
   include syringe plunger rods of a three-piece syringe, needle shields, safety shields of injection
25 devices and the finger flanges of a syringe barrel, handle of peripheral IV catheter, catheter
   wings, catheter flow control plug etc. Medical devices and components formed from recycled
   resin compositions may also be characterized as fluid path contact medical devices. Such
   medical devices or medical device components may include syringe barrels, needle hubs,
   surgical blade handles, valve housings, syringe stopper, plunger rod of a two piece syringe.
30 [0060]          Non-limiting examples of medical devices are illustrated in Figures 1 and 2.
   Figure 1 illustrates a syringe assembly 100 including a syringe barrel 110 with an inside
   surface defining a chamber, a plunger rod 120 disposed within the chamber, a needle hub 130

                                                    20
   including a needle cannula 140 for attachment to the syringe barrel. Figure 1 also illustrates an
   optional needle shield 150 to be attached to the needle hub 130 to protect and cover the needle
   cannula 140. The plunger rod 120 may include a separate stopper 125 attached to one end of
   the plunger rod 120 for forming a fluid tight seal with the inside surface of the syringe barrel,
 5 as shown in Figure 1. In one or more alternative embodiments, the plunger rod 120 may
   include a sealing portion (not shown) that functions as a stopper, and may be integrally molded
   with the plunger rod 120 and thus formed form the same material as the plunger rod 120. The
   syringe barrel 110 shown in Figure 1 also includes a luer fitting 112 at one end of the syringe
   barrel 110 and a finger flange 114 at the opposite end of the syringe barrel 110.
10 [0061]          In one variant, the syringe barrel may be entirely formed from the recycled resin
   compositions disclosed herein. Alternatively, the luer fitting 112 and/or the finger flanges 114
   may be formed from the recycled resin compositions disclosed herein, while the syringe barrel
    110 is formed from known resin compositions that may include virgin resin components and/or
   biobased resin components, and are free of any recycled resin. In one or more alternative
15 configurations, the inside surface of the syringe barrel 110 may be coated with known a resin
   composition(s) that may include virgin resin components and/or biobased resin components,
   and are free of any recycled resin, while the remainder of the syringe barrel 110 is formed form
   one or more of the recycled resin compositions described herein.
   [0062]          In one variant, the plunger rod 120 may be formed from the recycled resin
20 compositions described herein. In embodiments which incorporate a sealing edge (not shown)
   into the plunger rod 120, the sealing edge (not shown) may also be formed from the recycled
   resin compositions described herein. In one or more embodiments, the stopper 125 may be
   formed from elastomeric or other known materials, while the plunger rod is formed from the
   recycled resin compositions and is attached to the stopper 125.
25 [0063]          In one or more embodiments, the needle hub 130 may be formed from the
   recycled resin compositions described herein, while the needle cannula 140 is made from
   known materials in the art. In one or more alternative configurations, the needle shield 150
   may also be formed from the recycled resin compositions disclosed herein.
   [0064]          Figure 2 illustrates a scalpel 200 that includes an elongate handle 210 and blade
30 holder 220 for attaching a blade (not shown) to the elongate handle. The scalpel 200 also
   includes a blade shield 230 that is removably attached to the elongate handle 210 and/or the
   blade holder 220 to protect the blade (not shown). In one or more embodiments, the elongate

                                                   21
   handle 210, blade holder 220 and/or the blade shield 230 may be formed from the recycled
   resin compositions described herein.
   [0065]          In one or more embodiments, medical devices formed from the recycled resin
   compositions described herein do not change color after being sterilized which may be
 5 measured in terms of yellowness index. For example, the medical devices may be sterilized, as
   described above, and undergo no change in color or appearance.
   [0066]          The medical devices may be formed using various methods known in the art.
   For example, such methods include injection molding, blow molding, extrusion and/or roto or
   rotational molding. Other methods known in the art may also be utilized to form the medical
10 devices or components.
   [0067]          The medical devices formed from the recycled resin composition described may
   include a plunger rod that exhibits functional performance acceptable to users and /or
   clinicians.
   [0068]          In one or more embodiments, a plunger rod formed from the recycled resin
15 compositions described above exhibit the same functional performance as plunger rods formed
   from non-recycled resin compositions or compositions that do not include any recycled
   content.
   [0069]          A third aspect of the present invention pertains to a method for forming medical
   devices and components. In one or more embodiments, the method includes providing a melt
20 blend composition of the recycled resin compositions described herein. The method includes
   stabilizing the melt blend composition and solidifying the composition in a pre-selected shape,
   which may include a plunger rod, a syringe barrel, a catheter, a blood collection device, a
   surgical bland handle, a needle shield and a needle hub.          In one or more embodiments,
   stabilizing the melt blend composition includes stabilizing the melt blend composition to
25 withstand exposure to gamma rays, electron beams, X-ray radiation and ethylene oxide gas
   without compromising functional performance and/or aesthetic appeal of the finished product.
   [0070]          According to one embodiment,, the step of providing a melt blend composition
   comprises feeding a recycled resin component and one or more of an antioxidant component, a
   slip additive component, an anti-static component, an impact modifier component, a colorant
30 component, an acid scavenger component, a melt blend component, a clarifier component, a X
   ray fluorescence agent component, a radio opaque filler component, a surface modifier
   component, a processing aid component and a reinforcing agent component into a melt

                                                  22
   compounding extruder. The step of solidifying the composition comprises one of injection
   molding the composition, extruding the composition and rotational molding the composition.
   [0071]          The recycled resin compositions, medical devices and components made from
   such compositions and the methods of making such medical devices and components provide a
 5 unique supply chain system which reduces the impact on landfills.
   [0072]          The present invention will be further understood by reference to the following
   non-limiting examples; however, the scope of the claims is not to be limited thereby.
   EXAMPLES
   [0073]          The Inventive Formulations 1-6 were prepared by mechanically mixing
10 recycled polypropylene resins with virgin polypropylene resins, wherein the virgin
   polypropylene resins further comprised of antioxidants, acid scavengers and melt- stabilizer.
   [0074]          Inventive Formulation 1 included 60% by weight of recycled polypropylene
   component A and 40% by weight of a virgin polypropylene component A.                     Virgin
   polypropylene component A included up to 0.8% by weight of an anti-oxidant component and
15 a melt-stabilizer component and up to 0.3% by weight of an acid scavenger component.
   [0075]          Inventive Formulation 2 included 70% by weight of a recycled polypropylene
   component B and 30% by weight of virgin polypropylene component A, as described above.
   [0076]          Inventive Formulation 3 included 50% by weight of a recycled polypropylene
   component C and 50% by weight of a virgin polypropylene component A. as described above
20 [0077]          Inventive Formulation 4 included 60% by weight of recycled polypropylene
   component A and 40% by weight of a virgin polypropylene component B.                     Virgin
   polypropylene component B included up to 0.3% by weight of an anti-oxidant component and
   up to 0.2% by weight of an acid scavenger component.
   [0078]          Inventive Formulation 5 included 50% by weight of recycled polypropylene
25 component B and 50% of virgin polypropylene component B, as described above.
   [0079]          Inventive Formulation 6 included 60% by weight of a recycled polypropylene
   component D and 40% by weight of virgin polypropylene component A, as described above.
   [0080]          The physical properties of each of Inventive Formulations 1-6 were analyzed.
   Specifically, the flexural modulus, tensile strength @ yield, tensile strength @ break, tensile
30 elongation @ yield, tensile elongation @ break, tensile modulus, Izod impact strength and heat
   deflection temperature of Inventive Formulations 1-6 are evaluated and provided below in

                                                   23
   Table 1. For comparison, typical ranges for the physical properties of virgin polypropylene
   components are provided in Table 2.
   [0081]           The flexural modulus was measured according to ASTM D790-03. The tests
   were carried out on five specimens of each of the Inventive Formulations 1-6. The tests were
 5 carried out using a 0.05 in/min crosshead speed and a 2 inch support span length on an
   instrument provided by Instru-Met Corp., of Rahway, New Jersey, U.S.A.          The specimens
   were formed using an injection molding process and conditioned at 23 'C and 50% relative
   humidity (RH) for 40 hours before the testing was performed. The average flexural modulus
   measurement of each of the five samples for Inventive Formulations is provided in Table 1.
10 [0082]           The tensile properties of Inventive Formulations 1-6 were evaluated according
   to ASTM D638-03. The tests were carried out on five specimens of each of the Inventive
   Formulations 1-6. The tests were carried out using a cross-head speed of 2.0 in/min on an
   instrument provided by Instru-Met Corp., of Rahway, New Jersey, U.S.A. The type I tensile
   bar specimens were formed using an injection molding process and conditioned at 23 'C and
15 50% RH for 40 hours before the testing was performed. The average tensile strength @ yield,
   tensile strength @ break, tensile elongation @ yield, tensile elongation @ break and tensile
   modulus measurements of each of the five samples for Inventive Formulations is provided in
   Table 1.
   [0083]           The Izod impact strength of Inventive Formulations 1-6 were evaluated
20 according to ASTM D256-02.         The tests were carried out on ten specimens of each of the
   Inventive Formulations 1-6. The average Izod impact strength measurements for Inventive
   Formulations 1-6 are provided in Table 1.
   [0084]           The heat deflection temperature of Inventive Formulations 1-6 were evaluated
   according to ASTM D648-06 using an HDT/Vicat instrument available from Tinius Olsen, Inc.
25 of Horsham, Pennsylvania, U.S.A. under a load of 66 psi.           The average heat deflection
   temperature for Inventive Formulations 1-6 are provided in Table 1.
                      Table 1: Physical Properties of Inventive Formulations 1-6.
          Inventive             1         2           3         4           5          6
          Formulation
          Flexural Modulus (psi)
              Average        174345     148373     207247      187735      159857    157830
              Standard          2153       1288       4749       4200        2629       1385
              Deviation
          Tensile Strength @ Yield (psi)

                                                     24
            Average           4694         4372         4959          4919     4737    4408
            Standard             77           74          100            42       41      56
            Deviation
        Tensile Strength @ Break    (psi)
            Average           2228         2665         4044          4058     2740    2798
            Standard            304           81          779           162       81      84
            Deviation
        Tensile Elongation @ Yield (%)
            Average            9.67         11.1         8.37          7.87     9.27    8.41
            Standard         0.750        0.558        0.255         0.515    0.436    0.939
            Deviation
        Tensile Elongation @ Break (psi)
            Average             116          254         24.8          23.2      165     241
            Standard            141          121         15.3          3.50     40.5    62.3
            Deviation
        Tensile Modulus (psi)
            Average        238539      205376       264521         251694   234553   234458
            Standard          7031       11233          6799          9940   11561     2841
            Deviation
        Izod Impact Strength (ft-lbs/in)
            Average            0.46         0.51         0.53          0.53     0.44    0.51
        Heat Deflection Temperature ('C)
            Average            84.6         77.8       109.3           92.2     96.1   104.9
                  Table 2: Typical Physical properties of Virgin polyolefin resins.
       Physical Properties
       Flexural Modulus                   145037.7 psi (1000 MPa) - 290075.4 psi (2000 MPa)
       Tensile strength @yield           3625.9 psi (25 MPa) - 6526.7 psi (45 MPa)
       Tensile elongation @yield         6%- 15%
       Tensile Modulus                    145037.7 psi (1000 MPa) - 261067.9 psi (1800 MPa)
       Notched Izod Impact               0.3 ft-lb/in - 1.0 ft-lb/in
        Strength
       Heat Deflection                   70 0 C -1 100 C
       Temperature
  [0085]         The physical properties of the Inventive Formulations 1-6 are comparable to the
5 physical properties of virgin polyolefin resins, shown in Table 2. Accordingly, the recycled

                                                    25
   resin compositions described herein achieve the goals of utilizing recycled resins that are
   biocompatible and useful for medical device applications, without compromising the physical
   properties of the resulting devices.
   [0086]          Inventive   Formulations     1-6  were    also   analyzed for  biocompatibility.
 5 Specifically, each of Inventive Formulations           1-6 was analyzed in accordance with
   ANSI/AAMI/ISO 10-993-5 and the United States Pharmacopeia Biological Tests and Assays,
   Biological Reactivity Tests, in Vitro <87>.         The United States Pharmacopeia Biological
   Reactivity Tests, in Vitro <87> are designed to determine the biological reactivity of
   mammalian cell cultures following contact with elastomeric plastics and other polymeric
10 materials with direct or indirect patient contact or of specific extracts prepared from the
   materials under test. The elution test described in United States Pharmacopeia Biological
   Reactivity Tests, in Vitro <87> was carried out on Inventive Formulations 1-6.
   [0087]          Each of Inventive Formulations 1-6 passed or met the standard for the
   cytotoxicity tests with a United States Pharmacopeia score of zero, thereby meeting the criteria
15 for preclinical toxicological safety evaluation established by United States Pharmacopeia and
   ISO 10-993-5.      All of the biocompatibility tests were conducted in accordance with Good
   Laboratory Practice or GLP principles following procedures known in the art.
   [0088]          Reference    throughout this specification     to "one embodiment," "certain
   embodiments," "one or more embodiments" or "an embodiment" means that a particular
20 feature, structure, material, or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is
   included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Thus, the appearances of the phrases
   such as "in one or more embodiments," "in certain embodiments," "in one embodiment" or "in
   an embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily referring to
   the same embodiment of the invention. Furthermore, the particular features, structures,
25 materials, or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more
   embodiments.
   [0089]          Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular
   embodiments, it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the
   principles and applications of the present invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the
30 art that various modifications and variations can be made to the method and apparatus of the
   present invention without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus, it is

                                              26
intended that the present invention include modifications and variations that are within the
scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

                                          27
   CLAIMS:
   1.     A method of forming a medical device comprising:
          providing a melt blend composition including a 50% to 99% recycled resin
 5 component, the melt blend composition having a cytotoxicity score of zero;
          stabilizing the composition to withstand exposure to gamma rays, electron
   beams, X-ray radiations, ethylene oxide gas, autoclave, plasma sterilization; and
          solidifying the composition in a pre-selected shape.
10
   2.     The method of claim 1, wherein providing a melt blend composition comprises
   feeding a recycled resin component and one or more of an antioxidant component, slip
   additive component, anti-static component, impact modifier component, colorant
   component, acid scavenger component, nucleating agents, clarifiers, x-ray fluorescence
15 agent component, radio opaque filler component, surface modifier component,
   processing aid component and reinforcing agent component into a melt compounding
   extruder.
   3.     The method of claims 1 or 2, wherein solidifying the composition comprises one
20 of injection molding the composition, extruding the composition, blow molding the
   composition and rotational molding the composition.
   4.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the pre-selected shape
   comprises one of a plunger rod, a syringe barrel, a catheter, a blood collection device, a
25 surgical blade handle, a needle shield, safety shield, catheter wings, catheter flow
   control plugs and a needle hub, sharps containers, body fluid collection devices, tubing,
   adapters and drainage tubes.
   5.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising stabilizing the
30 composition to withstand exposure to gamma rays in the range from about 5 kGys to
   about 75kGys.

                                            28
   6.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the recycled resin component
   is biocompatible.
 5 7.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the recycled resin component
   comprises from about 0.1% to about 100% by weight recycled resin selected from one
   of post-industrial recycled resin, post-consumer recycled resin and combinations
   thereof.
10 8.     The method of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the melt blend composition
   further comprises one or more of a virgin resin component and/or a biobased resin
   component.
   9.     The method of claim 8, wherein the composition of recycled resin composition
15 mechanically mixed with virgin polypropylene resin comprises 60% by weight of
   recycled resin composition and 40% by weight of the virgin polypropylene resin.
   10.    The method of claim 8, wherein the composition of recycled resin composition
   mechanically mixed with virgin polypropylene resin comprises 70% by weight of
20 recycled resin composition and 30% by weight of the virgin polypropylene resin.
   11.    The method of claim 8, wherein the composition of recycled resin composition
   mechanically mixed with virgin polypropylene resin comprises 50% by weight of
   recycled resin composition and 50% by weight of the virgin polypropylene resin.
25
   12.    A composition for molding a medical device comprising:
          a recycled resin sourced from a traceable source; and
          one or more of an antioxidant component, slip additive component, anti-static
   component,    impact   modifier   component,    colorant  component,  acid  scavenger
30 component, x-ray fluorescence agent component, radio opaque filler component,

                                            29
   surface modifier component, processing aid component, melt stabilizer component,
   clarifier component, nucleating agents and reinforcing agent component,
           wherein the composition is biocompatible and has a cytotoxicity score of zero.
 5 13.     The composition     of claim 12,     wherein the composition     is capable of
   withstanding exposure to gamma rays in the range from about 5 kGys to about 75
   kGys.
   14.     The composition of claims 12, wherein the composition is capable of
10 withstanding exposure to electron beams in the range from about 30 kGys to about 100
   kGys.
   15.     The composition of any one of claims 12 to 14, wherein the composition is
   capable of withstanding exposure to one of X-ray radiation, ethylene oxide gas,
15 autoclaving and plasma sterilization.
   16.     The composition of any one of claims 12 to 15, comprising a flexural modulus
   in the range from about 70 kpsi to about 350 kpsi.
20 17.     The composition of any one of claims 12 to 16, comprising a melt flow range in
   the range from about 3 dg/minute to about 80 dg/minute.
   18.     The composition of any one of claims 12 to 17, comprising a heat deflection
   temperature from about 600 C to 260' C.
25
   19.     The composition of any one of claims 12 to 18, comprising notched izod impact
   strength in the range from about 0.1 ft-lb/in to about 4.0 ft-lb/in.
   20.     The composition of any one of claims 12 to 19, further comprising one or more
30 of a virgin resin component and a biobased resin component.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
