                                    ABSTRACT
The invention includes a system for generating and providing a digital brochure
or proposal, the system including a brochure or proposal generating device
adapted to generate a digital brochure or proposal containing information about
a product or service; the system includes one or more templates including a set
of predefined sections containing content in relation to the product or service;
and the generated brochure or proposal being stored on a server as an HTML
encoded document and a unique URL is generated at which the brochure or
proposal can be accessed online by a computing device. The invention has
application to the field of brochures for use in the marketing of services such as
professional services, or goods such as motor vehicles, boats or the like.

                                 E
                  0i               CL        u          Q)
     L-            0       iU
                      mi         cu          L.
                      u V)        LC   >4       .       Cu
        0                             L-                0.
                                     CL                -u
                   EL.
                                    0              0
                                                     E
            C                 (Y
            k0
a)                                                   a
          0~
 00
                     0~
                                          Ln   V,
               aa
    U-U
                       * m.                     ID

                                          1
A SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING DIGITAL BROCHURES AND
FOR TRACKING RECIPIENT ENGAGEMENT
TECHNICAL FIELD
[001]     The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for providing
digital brochures or proposals accessible via a unique URL link provided to
recipients by text message via a mobile telecommunications network or via the
Internet. The present invention has application to the field of brochures for use
in the marketing of services such as professional services, or goods such as
motor vehicles, boats or the like . However, it is to be appreciated that the
invention can have broader application to the promotion and marketing of a
range of services and goods.
BACKGROUND
[002]     Printed proposals and brochures are used extensively to promote and
advertise goods and services to existing or potential customers.             Printed
proposals and brochures are static documents and once handed over to a
recipient there is no way of monitoring or tracking the recipient's interaction and
engagement with the proposal or brochure.           It is, therefore, problematic to
determine the level of interest that the recipient has with the goods or services
offered by a proprietor after a printed proposal or brochure is supplied to a
recipient unless and until the recipient contacts the proprietor to enquire further
about those goods or services.
[003]     Printed brochures are commonly used in many areas of trade and
commerce. Printed brochures are distributed by mail or are handed to potential
purchasers of services or products. However, it is not possible to determine
the level of interest that the recipient has with the service or the product that is
the subject of the brochure unless and until the recipient contacts the provider
of the service or the vendor of the product.
[004]     The provision of advertising and marketing material electronically
through a network such as the Internet is becoming more commonplace. Such

                                          2
material can be sent and received as a data file on an electronic device such
as a computer, tablet, smartphone or the like and viewed on a display. The
data file may include instructions to cause a processor in the device to display
an electronic document comprising text, images, sound, video or some
combination thereof. The user of the device may then passively interact with
the electronic document by simply viewing its contents or there may be items
embedded in the document that the user can select such as hyperlinks that
direct a browser on the device to a website located at a particular URL.
[005]     Advertising and marketing material may also be accessed by a
customer as an HTML encoded document displayed by an application, such as
a browser application, executed in the device. The browser application uses a
URL to locate the HTML document or webpage which is then displayed on the
device.
[006]     Proposals, brochures and other forms of advertising and marketing
material supplied in paper form or over a network or online are typically static
and do not vary from recipient to recipient. As with printed proposals and
brochures, electronic proposals and brochures delivered as a downloadable
data file or as an HTML document viewable in a browser application are
typically provided in a static form with little or no means of gleaning information
about the recipient's interaction and engagement with the document.
[007]     Accordingly, a need exists for a means for providing brochures and
other marketing and advertising material to one or more recipients for perusal
as well as for gleaning information about the recipient's interaction and
engagement with such documents. A need exists to glean information about a
recipient's level of interest in the subject matter presented within a brochure.
There exists a need to obtain information in relation to recipient's interaction
with brochures and other forms of marketing material such as proposals in real
time, to process this information and to provide new information such as the
recipient's preferences to other platforms to facilitate targeted marketing and
advertising campaigns directed at the recipients online or through other
electronic means or channels.

                                        3
[008]    Any discussion of background art throughout the specification should
in no way be considered as an admission that any of the documents or other
material referred to was published, known or forms part of the common general
knowledge.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[009]     In one aspect, the invention provides a system for generating and
providing a digital brochure or proposal, the system including:
a brochure or proposal generating device adapted to generate a digital
brochure or proposal containing information about a product or service;
the system includes one or more templates including a set of predefined
sections containing content in relation to the product or service; and
the generated brochure or proposal being stored on a server as an HTML
encoded document and a unique URL is generated at which the brochure or
proposal can be accessed online by a computing device.
[0010]    In embodiments, the generating device generates a digital brochure or
proposal using template containing predetermined elements and customisable
elements.
[0011]    In embodiments, each template has a different set of predefined
sections or content blocks and template specific content in which there may be
static content or in which there may be dynamic content or customisable content
or a combination thereof.
[0012]   The content can include the name of a business, an address of the
business, contact details such as a telephone number and/or email address,
information about the members of the business and key employees,
photographs.
[0013]   The content can include historical information about a business such
as existing and/or previous clients or previously completed jobs.

                                          4
[0014]     In embodiments, the digital brochure or proposal is for marketing
products including motor vehicles, boats, dwellings or real estate.
[0015]     In other embodiments, the digital brochure or proposal is for marketing
services including legal services, accounting services, sales agency such as
real   estate    agency services, advertising services,      marketing    services,
consultancy services or IT services.
[0016]     In one aspect, the present invention provides a system for generating
and    providing a     digital brochure or proposal,     the system      including:
a brochure or proposal generating device adapted to generate a digital brochure
or proposal containing information about a product or service;
the system includes one or more templates including a set of predefined
sections containing content in relation to the product or service; and
the generated brochure or proposal being stored on a server as an HTML
encoded document and a unique URL is generated at which the brochure or
proposal can be accessed online by a computing device.
[0017]     Embodiments involve the provision of digital brochures or proposals
for marketing services or products.         In some embodiments, the invention
involves the provision of digital brochures or proposals for marketing
professional services. Such digital brochures or proposals include information
about the service provider including the location of the service provider's place
of business, photographs, video, text comprising information about the service
provider such as their skills and expertise as well as other information such as
testimonials. Some embodiments involve the provision of digital brochures for
marketing products. In some embodiments, the invention involves the provision
of digital brochures for marketing motor vehicles, boats, dwellings or real estate,
to name but a few examples. Such digital brochures include information about
the product including the photographs, video, text comprising information about
the product such as its features and characteristics
[0018]     In another aspect, the invention provides a system for generating and
providing a digital brochure or proposal to a user and for determining user

                                         5
preference information based on user interaction with the digital brochure or
proposal for determining digital marketing targeted at the user, the system
including:
a brochure or proposal generating device adapted to generate a digital
brochure or proposal containing information about a subject, the digital
brochure or proposal including one or more tracking devices adapted to
generate user interaction data relating to the interaction of a user with the digital
brochure or proposal;
a processing device for processing the user interaction data to determine user
preference information, and thereby determining further marketing to be
directed at the user based on the user preference information. Preferably, such
further marketing to be targeted at the user includes digital marketing.
[0019]    Preferred embodiments of the invention involve the provision of digital
brochures or proposals for marketing services or products.                 In some
embodiments, the invention involves the provision of digital brochures or
proposals for marketing professional services.         Such digital brochures or
proposals include information about the service provider including the location
of the service provider's place of business, photographs, video, text comprising
information about the service provider such as their skills and expertise as well
as other information such as testimonials.      The digital brochure or proposal
includes devices embedded within the brochure or proposal to track the user's
interaction and engagement with the brochure or proposal and parts and
sections therewithin.    Information in relation to the user interaction with the
brochure or proposal is received and processed to determine information about
the user, such as the user's interest in the service provider, that can be used to
determine follow up digital marketing activities directed to the user or other
forms of marketing.    Examples, include digital brochures or proposal for the
marketing and promotion of services including but not limited to legal services,
accounting services, sales agency such as real estate agency services,
advertising services, marketing services, consultancy services, IT services and
any other professional service.

                                         6
[0020]    In some embodiments, the invention involves the provision of digital
brochures for marketing real property.         Such digital brochures include
information about the property including the location, photographs, video, text
comprising    information   about the    property such     as its features and
characteristics. The digital brochure includes devices embedded within the
brochure to track the user's interaction and engagement with the brochure and
parts and sections therewithin. Information in relation to the user interaction
with the brochure is received and processed to determine information about the
user, such as the user's interest in the property, that can be used to determine
follow up digital marketing activities directed to the user or other forms of
marketing. It is to be appreciated, however, that although embodiments of the
invention employed in relation to the generation of real property brochures are
particularly preferred the invention may have application in other fields and in
relation to other kinds of brochures or proposals.
[0021]    Some embodiments of the invention involve the provision of digital
brochures for marketing products.        In some embodiments, the invention
involves the provision of digital brochures for marketing motor vehicles, boats
or the like.    Such digital brochures include information about the product
including the photographs, video, text comprising information about the product
such as its features and characteristics. The digital brochure includes devices
embedded within the brochure to track the user's interaction and engagement
with the brochure and parts and sections therewithin. Information in relation to
the user interaction with the brochure is received and processed to determine
information about the user, such as the user's interest in the product that can
be used to determine follow up digital marketing activities directed to the user
or other forms of marketing.
[0022]    In embodiments, the further marketing targeted at the user is digital
marketing.      The further    marketing    may   include   a further  electronic
communication via email, SMS, MMS or automated voicemail message. As will
become apparent from the foregoing, the further marketing may include
targeted digital advertising through platforms such as web-browser, Internet
search engines, social media and other online and digital platforms.

                                          7
[0023]    In  embodiments, the brochure          or proposal    generating  device
generates a digital brochure or proposal using a brochure template containing
predetermined elements of the brochure or proposal and customisable
elements of the brochure or proposal based on user responses to a digital
questionnaire or web-form completed by the user.
[0024]    Preferably, the predetermined elements include any one of the
brochure or proposal layout, text, images, video, sound or any combination
thereof.
[0025]    Preferably, the customisable elements include any one of the brochure
or proposal text, images, video, sound or any combination thereof or other
information based on the user responses.
[0026]    In embodiments, the one or more tracking devices include an HTML
encoded module such as a JavaScript module, cookies, server logs, web
beacons and other devices that track, record or obtain data regarding the user's
interaction with the proposal.
[0027]    Preferably, the interactions that are tracked include: i) how many times
the user accesses the brochure; ii) how long the electronic brochure remains
open on a user device; iii) which parts of the electronic brochure the user settles
on when scrolling through the brochure on the user device; iv) which if any
hyperlinks and other selectable items that are embedded in the electronic
brochure the user selects. In embodiments, a JavaScript module captures event
data from certain HTML elements and can also collect some basic information
about the user's browser configuration. The data is then sent to a specified
server endpoint.
[0028]    In embodiments, the processing device determines user preference
information selected from the group including: i) a probability that the user
intends to procure any products or services that are the subject of the brochure;
and ii) a probability that the user intends to procure any products or services

                                          8
that are not the subject of the brochure, based on the user interaction data
relating to the interaction of the user with the digital brochure.
[0029]    In embodiments, the processing device determines digital marketing
directed at the user including any one or more of: i) digital advertising including
the display of digital advertisements in an application executed in the user
device; ii) digital direct marketing including automatically generated and email
or SMS text sent to the user or the user device; and iii) automatically generated
audio or video marketing or advertising provided to the user or the user device.
[0030]    In embodiments of the system, the processing device sends user
preference information to another processing device such as a digital marketing
device for processing the user preference information and thereby determining
digital marketing and advertising to be directed at the user based on the user
preference information.
[0031]    Preferably, the digital marketing device is adapted to determine and
cause targeted advertising to be displayed to the user on the user device
through social media platforms and through web-browser and online digital
media platforms.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0032]    The invention will now be described in more detail with reference to
embodiments of the invention illustrated in the accompanying drawings,
wherein:
[0033]    Figure 1 illustrates a flowchart showing an embodiment of a method
for creating and configuring a digital brochure or proposal in accordance with
an embodiment of the invention;
[0034]    Figure 2 illustrates a schematic representation of a brochure or
proposal according to an embodiment of the invention including the various
components thereof.

                                          9
[0035]    Figure 3 illustrates a schematic representation of a system in
accordance with another embodiment of the invention including a vendor and
vendor device, a user and user device adapted to communicate via a network
such as the Internet with a vendor server, a marketing platform server and a
third party advertising platform server;
[0036]    Figure 4 illustrates a flowchart showing an embodiment of a method in
accordance with another embodiment of the invention.
[0037]    Figure 5 illustrates a schematic representation of a brochure or
proposal according to an embodiment of the invention including the various
components thereof.
[0038]    Figure 6 illustrates a schematic representation of a system in
accordance with an embodiment of the invention including a vendor and vendor
device, a client and client device, a user and user device adapted to
communicate via a network such as the Internet with a vendor server, a
marketing platform server and a third party advertising platform server;
[0039]    Figure 7 illustrates a flowchart showing an embodiment of a method in
accordance with another embodiment of the invention;
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0040]    Embodiments of the invention involve the provision of digital brochures
or proposals for marketing services or products. In some embodiments, the
invention involves the provision of digital brochures or proposals for marketing
professional services. Such digital brochures or proposals include information
about the service provider including the location of the service provider's place
of business, photographs, video, text comprising information about the service
provider such as their skills and expertise as well as other information such as
testimonials.

                                        10
[0041]    In an exemplary embodiment of the system 10 illustrated in Figure 1,
the system 10 allows for multiple brochure or proposal templates to be created
20. A set of content blocks for each template is created 21 such that each
template has a different set of predefined sections or content blocks. Template
specific content can be included in some of the content blocks 22 such that
when a template is selected content blocks can be selected that include existing
content specific to the template. The content blocks can be provided with static
content or dynamic content 23. The static content is fixed and predetermined
whereas dynamic content can be customised or some content blocks may
include a combination of static and dynamic content. Where the brochure or
the proposal is for the promotion of a business such as a professional services
business, the sections comprising static and/or dynamic text contain, for
example, the name of the business, the address and location of the business,
contact details such as telephone numbers and email addresses, information
about the members of the business and key employees and photographs,
information about the competencies of the business. There may also be other
sections for containing testimonials from other clients of the business as well
as historical information about the business such as existing and/or previous
clients or previously completed jobs demonstrating the business' track record.
[0042]    Where the brochure is for the promotion of a particular product, such
as a motor vehicle, a boat or a dwelling or real estate, there may be sections
containing static or dynamic content in relation to the product. For example the
name of the product, information about the product and images, specifications,
pricing, terms of sale, warranties and the like. There may also be information
about the manufacturer or producer of the product in addition to the retailer or
offeror of the product, which may be a car or boat dealership or property
developer.    The sections comprising static and/or dynamic text contain, for
example, the name of the offeror's business, the address and location of the
business, contact details such as telephone numbers and email addresses,
information about the members of the business and key employees and
photographs, information about the competencies of the business. There may
also be other sections for containing testimonials from other clients of the

                                        11
business as well as historical information about the business such as existing
and/or previous clients demonstrating the business' track record and reputation.
[0043]    The system also allows for the order of the sections, as they will appear
in the final brochure or proposal, to be altered 24.       Once the brochure or
proposal has been configured, preferably an HTML encoded document 25, a
unique URL is generated 26 at which the brochure or proposal, which is can be
accessed online by a user on a computer, smartphone, tablet device or the like.
[0044]    The unique URL can be provided to a user directly by the system or
indirectly through the provider or vendor of the product or service in an email,
SMS text or another form of electronic communication 27. The user can then
access the brochure or proposal online 28 using the URL.
[0045]    The system allows for a choice from a selection of predefined
templates where the system will determine what sections are included that can
then be filled with content specific for the service, the service provider, the
product or the product supplier.     In addition, the system also allows for the
brochure or proposal to expire on a predetermined date and/or time.
[0046]    The digital brochure or proposal includes devices embedded within the
brochure or proposal to track the user's interaction and engagement with the
brochure or proposal and parts and sections therewithin. Information in relation
to the user interaction with the brochure or proposal is received and processed
to determine information about the user, such as the user's interest in the
service provider, that can be used to determine follow up digital marketing
activities directed to the user or other forms of marketing. Examples, include
digital brochures or proposal for the marketing and promotion of services
including but not limited to legal services, accounting services, sales agency
such as real estate agency services, advertising services, marketing services,
consultancy services, IT services and any other professional service.
[0047]    Preferred embodiments of the invention include digital brochures or
proposals for marketing real estate agency services or for marketing an

                                           12
individual property listing that include means for tracking user interaction. Such
digital brochures preferably include information about the agency or the
property including location, photographs, video and text comprising information
about the agency or the property.         In the case of a property, the text may
describe its features and characteristics. The digital brochure includes devices
embedded within the brochure to track the user's interaction and engagement
with the brochure and parts and sections therewithin. Information in relation to
the user interaction with the brochure is received and processed to determine
information about the user, such as the user's interest in the real estate agency
or the property, that can be used to determine follow up digital marketing
activities directed to the user or other forms of marketing. It is to be appreciated,
however, that although embodiments of the invention employed in relation to
the generation of property brochures are particularly preferred the invention
may have broader application to other fields and other brochures or proposals.
Service Provider Brochure
[0048]    Referring to Figure 2 there is shown a schematic representation of a
digital brochure 50 in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The
brochure 50 is one that is configured for use by a service provider, such as a
real estate agent, to promote services to a vendor of a property. The brochure
includes a template that is standardised and is comprised of sections. A first
section 51 is entitled "Thank You" and contains an introductory statement
containing the name of the recipient or potential client of the service provider,
for example a property owner who wishes to sell their property. The first section
51 may include a general statement which may be standardised or customised.
A second section 52 is entitled "The Agency" and contains an introductory
message in relation to the service provider including the points of difference
from competitors and philosophy and other introductory information.           A third
section 53 is entitled "Your Property" comprises images and an address of the
property that may be uploaded.
[0049]    The digital brochure includes a fourth section 54 entitled "Valuation"
and comprises information in relation to the estimated value of the property and

                                         13
other relevant valuation information such as methodology and other like
properties sales results. A fifth section 55 entitled "Proposed Marketing and
Sale Strategy" includes information about the proposed marketing elements
that will be employed such as advertising and professional techniques that will
be deployed by the service provider.        A sixth section 56 entitled "Action
Calendar" provides information about the timing of various steps in the process
of marketing and selling a property
[0050]    A seventh section 57 is entitled "Selling Team" and includes
information about the staff of the real estate agency who will be responsible for
marketing the property and this information may be uploaded and customised.
An eighth section 58 is entitled "Testimonials" and includes information from
other clients of the agency who can attest to their competency. A ninth section
59 is entitled "Previous Sales History" and includes information about other
sales that have been achieved by the agency.           This information may be
provided or may be obtained automatically such as from an online database of
property sale information based on the address and price of the property to be
sold and other information.
[0051]    The brochure 50 includes a section 60 entitled "Next Steps" that
includes information for a potential client of the agency as to the next actions
they should take if they wish to engage their services. The final section 61 is
entitled "Actions" and can include other action items that the potential purchaser
may take such as contact details for contacting the real estate agent
electronically, such as by email, or otherwise by telephone.
[0052]    With reference to Figure 3, which is discussed in more detail below,
the brochure 50 is preferably an HTML encoded document that is accessible
online by a user 110 via a unique URL which causes a browser application on
a user device 115 to access and display the brochure 50. The digital brochure
50 may alternatively be provided as a file that can be downloaded by the user
115 to their device 115. The brochure 50 preferably contains one or more
tracking devices, such as embedded software code, that is adapted to generate
user interaction data relating to the interaction of the user 110 with the digital

                                        14
brochure 50 on the user device 115. Interactions that are tracked include: i)
how many times the user accesses the URL and thereby displays the electronic
proposal or brochure on the user device 115; ii) how long the electronic
proposal or brochure remains open on the user device 115; iii) which parts of
the electronic proposal or brochure the user settles on when scrolling through
the document on the user device 115; iv) which links and other devices that are
embedded in the electronic proposal or brochure the user selects when viewing
the brochure on the user device 115.        The tracking information allows for
determining information such as the user 110 level of interest in the property
that is the subject of the brochure 50 which can be used to determine if further
digital or other marketing towards the user 110 is appropriate.
System for Generating and Providing a Digital Proposal or Brochure
[0053]    Referring to Figure 3, there is shown an embodiment of the present
invention comprising a system 400 for generating and providing a digital
proposal or brochure to a user and for determining user preference information
based on user interaction with the digital proposal or brochure for determining
digital marketing targeted at the user. The embodiment of the system 400
includes a vendor device 125 operated by a vendor 120, a user device 115
operated by a user 110 and adapted to communicate via a network 137 such
as the Internet with a vendor server 140, a marketing platform server 150 and
a third party advertising platform server 160.
[0054]    The marketing platform server 150 operates as a device for generating
a digital proposal or brochure containing information about a product or service
offered by the vendor 120. The digital proposal or brochure preferably includes
one or more tracking devices adapted to generate user interaction data relating
to the interaction of the user 110 with the digital proposal or brochure on the
user device 115.      A processing device, which may be comprised by the
marketing platform server 150 or by the third party advertising platform server
160 or another processing device or a combination thereof, receives and
processes the user interaction data to determine user preference information.
With the user preference information, the marketing platform server 150 or by

                                         15
the third party advertising platform server 160 or another processing device
determines digital marketing directed at the user based on the user preference
information.
[0055]    As will be apparent from the foregoing, the system 400 provides for the
vendor 120 to dynamically customise and create a proposal or brochure for an
individual user 110 or for a group of the users 110. The customised proposal
or brochure may contain specific items such as information, text, images,
sounds, video or combinations thereof for a particular user 110 or a group of
users.
[0056]    In some embodiments, the system 400 may comprise an electronic
template for creating a customised proposal or brochure. The system may elicit
information from the user 1100 such as by way of a questionnaire which may
be presented to the user 1100 as a downloadable electronic document or a
web-form filled in by the user 1100 online. Based on the answers given by the
user 1100 to questions the system customises a proposal or brochure for the
customer.
[0057]    In some embodiments, the system may comprise an electronic
template for creating a custom ised brochure. The system may elicit information
from the vendor 120 such as by way of a questionnaire presented to the vendor
120 as a downloadable electronic document or a web-form filled in by the
vendor 120 online. The marketing platform server 150 may be configured to
directly provide the downloadable electronic document or web-form for
completion by the vendor 120 or may send the electronic document or a URL
link to the web-form to the vendor 120. Based on the answers given by the
vendor 120 to questions the system customises a brochure for the vendor 120
for supply to users 120 who may be potential customers of the vendor 120.
[0058]    For example, the vendor 120 may be a provider of boats and other
marine craft. The vendor 120 may wish to present electronic brochures to
potential customers or users 120 who express an interest in the boats and
marine craft offered by the vendor 120 or who otherwise may express an

                                         16
interest in such items, such as by visiting a trade show or boat show or the like.
The system may elicit information from the vendor 120 such as by way of the
questionnaire which may be presented to the vendor 120 as a downloadable
electronic document or a web-form filled in by the vendor 120 online. Based on
the answers given by the vendor 120 to questions the system customises a
brochure or a proposal for the vendor 120. The brochure or the proposal may
include standard items that form part of the template such as text, images,
sound, video or combinations thereof. The brochure or the proposal may also
include individual or customisable items of text, images sound, video or
combinations thereof that are based on the information provided by the vendor
120, such as in the answers provided by the vendor 120 to the questionnaire or
web-form. Examples of such individual or customisable text may include the
name, address, website URL, telephone number, email address and other
identification information of the business of the vendor 120, information about
individual products offered by the vendor 120 and images or video or both of
these products, information about pricing and other terms of trade or other
contractual and legal aspects of the business of the vendor 120.
[0059]    The electronic template will include some predetermined sections in
which information about different aspects of the business of the vendor 120 and
the products and/or services offered by the vendor 120 are provided.           For
example, the template may include sections designated to contain information
about the business of the vendor 120, information about the range of goods
and/or services offered      by the vendor 120, information about pricing,
information about terms of trade and other contractual and legal information
about the business of the vendor 120 and any other categories of information
that might ordinarily be expected to be contained within a brochure or proposal.
Tracking User Interaction
[0060]    As will become apparent from the foregoing, the brochure that is
supplied to the user 110 includes devices embedded within the brochure to
track the user's interaction and engagement with the brochure and parts and
sections therewithin.      These devices may be embedded statically or

                                        17
dynamically within individual sections of the template and, hence, the final
proposal or brochure.      For example, the template may have these devices
embedded as standard or these devices may be included selectively by the
vendor 120 based on, for example, their preferences as expressed in their
responses to the questionnaire or web-form or otherwise provided.
[0061]    Figure 4 illustrates steps in a method 500 in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention. The method involves a series of steps whereby
a vendor, who may be engaged in the delivery of services or of goods, interacts
with a user who may be a potential consumer of the services or the goods. The
user, who is a potential customer of the vendor, may express an interest 505 in
the services or goods offered by the vendor. The vendor may receive this
expression of interest in person or electronically.      The user may provide
information such as their contact details, email address, mobile telephone
number and other relevant information to the through the website. The vendor
enters information relating to the services or goods that are the subject of the
expression of interest received from the user into the vendor device. The
vendor device communicates via the network with the marketing platform server
with instructions to prepare an electronic proposal or brochure that is
customised to the user's preferences based on the information received from
the user.
[0062]    In another embodiment, the user may express an interest in the
services or goods offered by the vendor by providing an expression of interest
electronically to the vendor server directly. For example, the user may access
a website hosted directly or indirectly by the vendor server and express an
interest in the services or goods of the vendor by, for example, completing an
online form and perhaps by providing their contact details and other relevant
information.     In other embodiments, the user may communicate their
expression of interest with the vendor server via email, SMS or another form of
electronic communication. The vendor server is adapted to communicate via
the network with the marketing platform server with instructions to prepare an
electronic proposal or brochure that is customised to the specific needs of the
user based on the information received from the user.

                                       18
[0063]    In yet another embodiment, the user may express an interest in the
services or goods offered by the vendor by providing an expression of interest
electronically to the marketing platform server directly or indirectly.      For
example, the user may access a website hosted directly or indirectly by the
marketing platform server on behalf of the vendor and express an interest in
the services or goods of the vendor by, for example, completing an online form
and perhaps by providing their contact details and other relevant information.
The user may express interest in the goods or services of the vendor by email,
SMS or other electronic communication sent to the marketing platform server.
[0064]    Referring to Figure 4, based on the receipt of a user's expression of
interest 505 the marketing platform server is configured to create an electronic
proposal and to electronically send the proposal to the user 507 as a file via
email, SMS, MMS or as a link, such as a unique URL, with which the user can
access the file online. The proposal can include content that is standardised
across a plurality of users and content that is customised for individual users
based on individual user information. The standardised part of the proposal
may be comprised of elements of a template (e.g. the proposal layout,
information about the vendor) and customisable elements of the proposal
based on user information, such as user response to a digital questionnaire or
web-form completed by the user. The electronic proposal can include any
combination of text, images and video providing information about the vendor,
the vendors services or goods, information that may be useful to the vendor in
making a decision about whether to procure the services or goods of the
vendor.
[0065]   The user accesses the electronic proposal 510 which is then displayed
on the user device 520. The user can interact with the proposal or the brochure
530 which is embedded with devices to track how the user interacts with the
proposal.    For example, the proposal may include one or more embedded
pieces of software that gather information about how the user interacts with the
electronic proposal when it is displayed on the user device and sends the
information via the network to the marketing platform server.       The server

                                        19
receives the information or data indicative of the user interaction with the
proposal 540.
[0066]    The devices that gather information about how the user interacts with
the electronic proposal can include cookies, server logs, web beacons and
other devices that track, record or obtain data regarding the user's interaction
with the proposal or brochure and send that information to the marketing
platform server. Interactions that are tracked include: i) how many times the
user accesses the URL and thereby displays the electronic proposal or
brochure on the user device; ii) how long the electronic proposal or brochure
remains open on the user device; iii) which parts of the electronic proposal or
brochure the user settles on when scrolling through the document on the user
device; iv) which links and other devices that are embedded in the electronic
proposal or brochure the user selects when viewing the brochure on the user
device.
[0067]    The marketing platform server stores tracking data in relation to about
how the user interacts with the electronic proposal or brochure. The marketing
platform server may be configured to use the tracking data for a number of
purposes.     The marketing platform server may process the interaction
information or data and output information about the user's preferences based
on their interaction with the proposal 550. The output information about user
preferences can be provided to the vendor server or to a third party platform
560 which can then to make decisions about user follow up 570.
[0068]    In other embodiments, the marketing platform server 150 may
cooperate with a third party online platform that presents advertising such as
an online social media platform, search engine or other online sites that
presents advertising such as an online publisher of news.        The marketing
platform server 150 may provide the tracking information or other information
derived from the tracking information to the third party online platform for the
purposes of presenting targeted advertising to the user 110 when visiting one
of the third party online platform's webpage on the user device 115 or another
device with Internet access.

                                        20
[0069]    In some embodiments, the marketing platform server 150 processes
the tracking information to make predictions about the user 110 such as their
preferences for products or services that they may wish to acquire at present
or in the future.   The marketing platform server 150 may be configured to
provide data regarding the user 110 to third party online platforms for the
purposes of presenting targeted advertising.         The targeted advertising is
advertising relating to goods or services that are predicted by the marketing
platform server 150 or the third party online platform or some other intermediary
processing platform as being relevant to the user 110.
[0070]    The marketing platform server 150 may use the tracking information or
other information derived from the tracking information to determine further
action directed towards the user 110. The marketing platform server 150 may
use the tracking information to make predictions about which services or goods
the user 110 is likely to purchase or otherwise acquire. The marketing platform
server 150 may be configured to receive data from a third party online platform
in relation to the user's subsequent engagement with targeted advertising
presented to the user based on the tracking information.          The marketing
platform server 150 may determine a correlation between the output of the
marketing platform server 150 based on the user interaction with the proposal
or brochure and the user's subsequent engagement with targeted advertising.
Brochure
[0071]    Referring to Figure 5 there is shown a schematic representation of a
digital brochure 300 in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. The
brochure 300 is one that is configured for use by a real estate agent as a
property marketing brochure in relation to a particular listing to be supplied to
potential purchasers. The brochure includes a template that is standardised
and is comprised of sections. A first section 310 is entitled "Thank You" and
contains an introductory statement containing the name of the recipient or
potential purchaser of property as well as a general statement which may be
standardised or customised. A second section 320 is entitled "The Property"
and contains an introductory message in relation to the featured property

                                        21
including the address, a representative image and an online map showing the
location of the property. The online map section is comprised of an embedded
map that automatically identifies the location of the property based on the
address of the property. Ae third section 330 is entitled "Gallery" and comprises
images and/or video of the property that may be uploaded.
[0072]    The digital brochure includes a fourth section is entitled "Description"
and comprises text, images and/or video containing a description of the
property which may be provided or uploaded. A fifth section 350 is entitled
"Floor Plans" and is comprised of an image of a floor plan of the property which
may be uploaded.       A sixth section 360 is entitled "House Styling" and this
section may be comprised of images and/or video of the interior and/or exterior
of the property with virtual decor or furniture or the like illustrating how the
property could be styled by a potential purchaser. This section may adopt
images and/or video produced by a plug-in or otherwise uploaded.
[0073]    A seventh section 370 of the brochure 300 is entitled "Suburb Profile"
and comprises information about the suburb in which the property is located
based on the address and this information may be obtained from stock suburb
profiles or may be customised. An eighth section 380 is entitled "Selling Team"
and includes information about the staff of the real estate agency who will be
responsible for marketing the property and this information may be uploaded
and customised. A ninth section 390 is entitled "Our Agency" and includes
information about the real estate agency who will be responsible for marketing
the property and this information may be uploaded and customised. A tenth
section 400 is entitled "Local Similar Sales" and includes information about
other similar properties recently sold and pricing.     This information may be
provided or may be obtained automatically such as from an online database of
property sale information based on the address and price of the property to be
sold and other information.
[0074]    The brochure 300 includes a section 410 entitled "Next Steps" that
includes information for a potential purchaser as to the next actions they should
take if they are interested in purchasing the property. This section may include

                                        22
links or messaging tools to communicate with the real estate agent to obtain a
copy of the contract or book an inspection of make an offer. The final section
420 is entitled "Actions" and can include other action items that the potential
purchaser may take such as contact details for contacting the real estate agent
electronically, such as by email, or otherwise by telephone.
[0075]    The brochure 300 is preferably an HTML encoded document that is
accessible online by a user 110 via a unique URL which causes a browser
application on the user device 115 to access and display the brochure 300. The
digital brochure 300 may alternatively be provided as a file that can be
downloaded by the user 115 to their device 115. The brochure 300 contains
one or more tracking devices, such as embedded software code, that is adapted
to generate user interaction data relating to the interaction of the user 110 with
the digital brochure 300 on the user device 115. Interactions that are tracked
include: i) how many times the user accesses the URL and thereby displays the
electronic proposal or brochure on the user device 115; ii) how long the
electronic proposal or brochure remains open on the user device 115; iii) which
parts of the electronic proposal or brochure the user settles on when scrolling
through the document on the user device 115; iv) which links and other devices
that are embedded in the electronic proposal or brochure the user selects when
viewing the brochure on the user device 115. The tracking information allows
for determining information such as the user 110 level of interest in the property
that is the subject of the brochure 300 which can be used to determine if further
digital or other marketing towards the user 110 is appropriate.
[0076]    Referring to Figure 6 there is shown an embodiment of the present
invention comprising a system 100 for generating and providing a digital
brochure to a user 110 and for determining user preference information based
on user interaction with the digital brochure. The user preference information
can be used for determining digital marketing targeted at the user 110. The
embodiment of the system 100 includes a vendor device 125 operated by a
vendor 120, a client device 135 operated by a client 130 and a user device 115
operated by a user 110 and adapted to communicate via a network 137 such

                                        23
as the Internet with a vendor server 140, a marketing platform server 150 and
a third party advertising platform server 160.
[0077]    The marketing platform server 150 operates as a device for generating
a digital brochure containing information about a product or service offered by
the vendor 120. The digital brochure preferably includes one or more tracking
devices adapted to generate user interaction data relating to the interaction of
the user 110 with the digital brochure on the user device 115. A processing
device, which may be comprised by the marketing platform server 150 or by the
third party advertising platform server 160 or another processing device or a
combination thereof, receives and processes the user interaction data to
determine user preference information. With the user preference information,
the marketing platform server 150 or by the third party advertising platform
server 160 or another processing device determines digital marketing directed
at the user based on the user preference information.
[0078]    In some embodiments, the system 100 may comprise an electronic
template for creating a customised brochure such as the embodiment of Figure
1 described above. The system 100 may elicit information from the client 130
such as by way of a questionnaire which may be presented to the client 130 as
a downloadable electronic document or a web-form filled in by the user 100
online. Alternatively, the information may be provided by the client 130 by
another means to the vendor 120 who may enter the information into the vendor
device 125. Based on the answers given by the client 130 to questions the
system customises a brochure for the client 130.
[0079]    For example, the vendor 120 may be a real estate agent and the client
130 may be the owner of a property that the client 130 wishes to sell. The
system 100 may elicit information from the client 130 such as by way of a
questionnaire which may be presented to the client 130 as a downloadable
electronic document or a web-form filled in by the client 130 online. The real
estate agent's 120 website may be configured to directly provide the
downloadable electronic document or web-form for completion by the client 130
or may redirect the client 130 to a web-form hosted by the marketing platform

                                         24
server 150 or may instruct the marketing platform server 150 to send the
electronic document or a URL link to the web-form to the client 130.
[0080]    Based on the answers given by the client 130 to questions the system
100 customises a brochure or a proposal for the client 130. The brochure or
the proposal may include standard items that form part of the template such as
text, images, sound, video or combinations thereof.         The brochure or the
proposal may also include individual or customisable items of text, images
sound, video or combinations thereof that are based on the information
provided by the client 130, such as in the answers provided by the client 130 to
the questionnaire or webform.
[0081]    Examples of standard items forming part of the template include the
layout of the proposal as may be predetermined by the real estate agent or
vendor 120, the name, address, website URL, telephone number, email
address and other identification information of the vendor 120, information
about the business of the vendor 120, information about individual employees
of the vendor 120, images or video or both of these individual employees,
information about property marketing strategies and options and respective
costs, pricing and other terms of trade or other contractual and legal aspects of
the business of the vendor 120. Examples of customisable parts of the template
include items that are based on information provided by the client 130 such as
detail of the user's property that they wish to sell such as the address, a
description of the property, the location of the property on a map, a valuation of
the property, information about similar or equivalent properties based on
location and other factors including their respective sale prices and sale date,
general information about the area in which the property is located such as
market trends and images of the user's property.
[0082]    Potential purchasers of property, herein referred to as the users 110,
may visit the real estate agent's website and complete a web-form or may
otherwise contact the real estate agent 120. The system 100 allows the real
estate agent 120 to present an electronic brochure to the users 110 who are
potential purchasers of property.         The electronic brochure will contain

                                         25
information about the property that the client 130 wishes to sell and will also
include one or more tracking devices adapted to generate user interaction data
relating to the interaction of the users 110 with the digital brochure.
[0083]    The system 100 may elicit information from the users 110 such as by
way of a questionnaire which may be presented to the users 110 as a
downloadable electronic document or a web-form filled in by the users 110
online. The information that is elicited from the users 110 may be the kind of
information that might ordinarily be elicited from a potential purchaser of real
estate and entered into a customer relationship management (CRM) platform
or database.
[0084]    As will become apparent from the foregoing, the proposal that is
supplied to the user 110 includes devices embedded within the proposal to track
the user's interaction and engagement with the proposal and parts and sections
therewithin. These devices may be embedded statically or dynamically within
individual sections of the template and, hence, the final proposal. For example,
the template may have these devices embedded as standard or these devices
may be included selectively by the vendor 120 based on, for example, their
preferences as expressed in their responses to a questionnaire or web-form or
otherwise provided.
[0085]    Figure 7 illustrates steps in a method 200 in accordance with an
embodiment of the invention.        The method 200 involves a series of steps
whereby the vendor, namely the real estate agent, interacts with a client, who
is a vendor of a property that the client wishes to sell. The client expresses an
interest in engaging the services of the real estate agent to sell their property
205. The real estate agent may receive this expression of interest in person or
electronically. The client may provide information such as the address and
other information in relation to the property that the client wishes to sell, contact
details, email address, mobile telephone number and other relevant information
to the real estate agent through the website. The agent enters information
relating to the client's property into the vendor device. The vendor device
communicates via the network with the marketing platform server with

                                         26
instructions to prepare an electronic brochure that is customised to the
individual property and based on the client's preferences based on the
information received from the client. In another embodiment, the client may
provide their information directly to the real estate agent server by, for example,
completing an online form or by email, SMS or another form of electronic
communication.     The real estate agent is adapted to communicate via the
network with the marketing platform server with instructions to prepare an
electronic brochure that is customised to the specific property of the client
based on the information received from the client. In yet another embodiment,
the client may provide their information electronically to the marketing platform
server directly or indirectly. For example, the client may access a website
hosted directly or indirectly by the marketing platform server on behalf of the
real estate agent.
[0086]    Referring to Figures 6 and 7, based on the receipt of a client's
expression of interest 205 the marketing platform server is configured to create
an electronic proposal and to electronically send the brochure to one or more
users 207 as a file via email, SMS, MMS or as a link, such as a unique URL,
with which the user can access the file online. The users being individuals
whose contact details have been received by the marketing platform server
based on them having expressed an interest in the particular property or other
similar properties and whose details may, for example, be stored in a customer
relationship management (CRM) platform or database.
[0087]    The brochure can include content that is standardised and content that
is customised for individual properties or real estate agents based on individual
preferences.    The standardised part of the brochure may be comprised of
elements of a template (e.g. the brochure layout, information about the
property, information about the real estate agent) and customisable elements
of the proposal based on property information, such as information provided by
the property vendor in response to a digital questionnaire or web-form
completed by them. The electronic brochure can include any combination of
text, images and video providing information about the property that may be

                                         27
useful to the potential purchaser in making a decision about whether to
purchase the property.
[0088]    The users who are the potential purchasers of the property access the
electronic proposal 210 which is then displayed on each user's device 220. The
users can interact with the brochure 230 which is embedded with means for
tracking how the user interacts with the brochure. For example, the brochure
may include one or more embedded pieces of software that gather information
about how the user interacts with the electronic brochure when it is displayed
on the user device and sends the information via the network to the marketing
platform server. The marketing platform server receives the information or data
indicative of the user interaction with the brochure 240.
[0089]    The means for gathering information about how the user interacts with
the electronic brochure can include cookies, server logs, web beacons and
other virtual devices that track, record or obtain data regarding the user's
interaction with the brochure and send that information to the marketing
platform server. Interactions that are tracked include: i) how many times the
user accesses the URL and thereby displays the electronic brochure on the
user device; ii) how long the electronic brochure remains open on the user
device; iii) which parts of the electronic brochure the user settles on when
scrolling through the document on the user device; iv) which links and other
devices that are embedded in the electronic brochure the user selects when
viewing the brochure on the user device.
[0090]    The marketing platform server stores tracking data in relation to about
how the user interacts with the electronic brochure. The marketing platform
server may be configured to use the tracking data for a number of purposes.
The marketing platform server may process the interaction information or data
and output information about the user's preferences based on their interaction
with the brochure 250. The output information about user preferences can be
provided to the vendor server or to a third party platform 260 which can then to
make decisions about user follow up 270. For example, if the output information
about user preferences suggests that the user has a high level of interest in the

                                        28
property that is the subject of the brochure then this may indicate that the real
estate agent should contact the user.
[0091]     In other embodiments, the marketing platform server may cooperate
with a third party online platform that presents advertising such as an online
social media platform, search engine or other online sites that present
advertising such as an online publisher of news. The marketing platform server
may provide the tracking information or other information derived from the
tracking information to the third party online platform for the purposes of
presenting targeted advertising to the user when visiting one of the third party
online platform's webpage on the user device or another device with Internet
access.
[0092]     In some embodiments, the marketing platform server processes the
tracking information to make predictions about the user such as their
preferences for products or services that they may wish to acquire at present
or in the future. The marketing platform server may be configured to provide
data regarding the user to third party online platforms for the purposes of
presenting targeted advertising. The targeted advertising is advertising relating
to goods or services that are predicted by the marketing platform server or the
third party online platform or some other intermediary processing platform as
being relevant to the user.
[0093]     The marketing platform server may use the tracking information or
other information derived from the tracking information to determine further
action directed towards the user. The marketing platform server may use the
tracking information to make predictions about which services or goods the user
is likely to purchase or otherwise acquire. The marketing platform server 150
may be configured to receive data from a third party online platform in relation
to the user's subsequent engagement with targeted advertising presented to
the user based on the tracking information. The marketing platform server 150
may determine a correlation between the output of the marketing platform
server 150 based on the user interaction with the proposal or brochure and the
user's subsequent engagement with targeted advertising.

                                       29
[0094]    While various embodiments of the invention have been set forth above,
it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and
variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the
scope or spirit of the invention. Thus, it is intended that the present invention
cover such modifications and variations as fall within the scope of the appended
claims and their equivalents.

                                        30
Claims:
1.     A system for generating and providing a digital brochure or proposal, the
system including:
a brochure or proposal generating device adapted to generate a digital
brochure or proposal containing information about a product or service;
the system includes one or more templates including a set of predefined
sections containing content in relation to the product or service; and
the generated brochure or proposal being stored on a server as an HTML
encoded document and a unique URL is generated at which the brochure or
proposal can be accessed online by a computing device.
2.     The system of claim 1, wherein the generating device generates a digital
brochure or proposal using template containing predetermined elements and
customisable elements.
3.     The system of claim 2, wherein each template has a different set of
predefined sections or content blocks and template specific content in which
there may be static content or in which there may be dynamic content or
customisable content or a combination thereof.
4.     The system of claim 3, wherein the content includes the name of a
business, an address of the business, contact details such as a telephone
number and/or email address, information about the members of the business
and key employees, photographs.
5.     The system of claim       3, wherein the content includes historical
information about a business such as existing and/or previous clients or
previously completed jobs.
6.     The system of claim 1, wherein the digital brochure or proposal is for
marketing products including motor vehicles, boats, dwellings or real estate.
7.     The system of claim 1, wherein the digital brochure or proposal is for
marketing services including legal services, accounting services, sales agency

                                        31
such as real estate agency services, advertising services, marketing services,
consultancy services or IT services.
8.      A system for generating and providing a digital proposal to a user and
for determining user preference information based on user interaction with the
digital proposal for determining further marketing targeted at the user, the
system including:
a proposal generating device adapted to generate a digital proposal containing
information about a subject, the digital proposal including one or more tracking
devices adapted to generate user interaction data relating to the interaction of
a user with the digital proposal;
a processing device for processing the user interaction data to determine user
preference information, and thereby determining further marketing directed at
the user based on the user preference information.
9.      The system of claim 8, wherein the subject is a product and/or a service
and wherein the further marketing targeted at the user is digital marketing.
10.     The system of claim 8, wherein the proposal generating device
generates    a   digital  proposal  using    a  proposal   template   containing
predetermined elements of the proposal and customisable elements of the
proposal based on user responses to a digital questionnaire or web-form
completed by the user.
11.     The system of claim 10, wherein the predetermined elements include the
proposal layout, text, images, video, sound or combinations thereof that are
determined the vendor of the subject.
12.     The system of claim 10, wherein the customisable elements include text,
images, video, sound or combinations thereof and other information based on
the user responses.

                                         32
13.     The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more tracking devices include
cookies, server logs, web beacons and other devices that track, record or obtain
data regarding the user's interaction with the proposal.
14.     The system of claim 13, wherein the interactions that are tracked include:
i) how many times the user accesses the proposal; ii) how long the electronic
proposal remains open on a user device; iii) which parts of the electronic
proposal or brochure the user settles on when scrolling through the proposal
on the user device; iv) which if any hyperlinks and other selectable items that
are embedded in the electronic proposal the user selects.
15.     The system of claim 6, wherein the processing device determines user
preference information selected from the group including: i) a probability that
the user intends to procure any products or services that are the subject of the
proposal; and ii) a probability that the user intends to procure any products or
services that are not the subject of the proposal, based on the user interaction
data relating to the interaction of the user with the digital proposal.
16.     The system of claim 6, wherein the processing device determines digital
marketing directed at the user including any one or more of: i) digital advertising
including the display of digital advertisements in an application executed in the
user device; ii) digital direct marketing including automatically generated and
email or SMS text sent to the user or the user device; and iii) automatically
generated audio or video marketing or advertising provided to the user or the
user device.
17.     The system of claim 6, wherein the processing device sends user
preference information to another processing device such as a digital marketing
device for processing the user preference information and thereby determining
digital marketing and advertising to be directed at the user based on the user
preference information.
18.     The system of claim 17, wherein the digital marketing device is adapted
to determine and cause targeted advertising to be displayed to the user on the

                                   33
user device through social media platforms and through web-browser and
online digital media platforms.

              <U+272D><U+2733>
                                      <U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729><U+272A> <U+272B>
<removed-date>
                    <U+272C><U+2733>       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D> <U+2702><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2701><U+2702><U+271E><U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+271D><U+261E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271D> <U+270C><U+271F>
                                        <U+2704><U+2701><U+271D><U+2720><U+261B><U+271D><U+270D>
                        <U+272C><U+272D>    <U+270E><U+2702><U+270F><U+261B><U+271D><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2721><U+2702><U+2704><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2713><U+2702><U+2701> <U+271F><U+271D><U+2721><U+271D><U+2704><U+261B><U+271D><U+270D>
                                       <U+261B><U+271D><U+261E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271D>
<removed-apn>
                               <U+2714><U+271D><U+261E><U+271E><U+2721><U+2720><U+261B><U+271D> <U+271F><U+271E><U+271D><U+2704><U+270C><U+2713><U+270C><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2702><U+270F><U+261B><U+271D><U+270F><U+261B>
                        <U+272C><U+272C>    <U+2704><U+2720><U+270F> <U+2711><U+271D> <U+270C><U+270F><U+2704><U+2721><U+2706><U+270D><U+271D><U+270D> <U+270C><U+270F> <U+271F><U+2702><U+261E><U+271D> <U+2702><U+2713>
                                  <U+261B><U+260E><U+271D> <U+2704><U+2702><U+270F><U+261B><U+271D><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2721><U+2702><U+2704><U+2712><U+271F>
                              <U+2714><U+260E><U+271D> <U+2704><U+2702><U+270F><U+261B><U+271D><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2721><U+2702><U+2704><U+2712><U+271F> <U+2704><U+2720><U+270F> <U+2711><U+271D>
                        <U+272C><U+272E>    <U+271E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2715><U+270C><U+270D><U+271D><U+270D> <U+2716><U+270C><U+261B><U+260E> <U+271F><U+261B><U+2720><U+261B><U+270C><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2702><U+270F><U+261B><U+271D><U+270F><U+261B>
                                <U+2720><U+270F><U+270D><U+2717><U+2702><U+2701> <U+270D><U+2718><U+270F><U+2720><U+261E><U+270C><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2702><U+270F><U+261B><U+271D><U+270F><U+261B>
                        <U+272C><U+272F>       <U+270E><U+260E><U+2720><U+270F><U+2719><U+271D> <U+2702><U+2701><U+270D><U+271D><U+2701> <U+2702><U+2713> <U+261B><U+260E><U+271D>
                                <U+2704><U+2702><U+270F><U+261B><U+271D><U+270F><U+261B> <U+2711><U+2721><U+2702><U+2704><U+2712><U+271F><U+2717><U+271F><U+271D><U+2704><U+261B><U+270C><U+2702><U+270F><U+271F>
                                 <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D> <U+2702><U+2701> <U+271E><U+2701><U+2702><U+271E><U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+270C><U+271F>
                        <U+272C><U+2730>      <U+2704><U+2702><U+270F><U+2713><U+270C><U+2719><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D><U+270D> <U+2720><U+271F> <U+2720><U+270F> <U+271A><U+2714><U+271B><U+271C>
                                  <U+271D><U+270F><U+2704><U+2702><U+270D><U+271D><U+270D> <U+270D><U+2702><U+2704><U+2706><U+261E><U+271D><U+270F><U+261B>
                        <U+272C><U+2731>      <U+2722><U+270F><U+270C><U+2723><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2722><U+2724><U+271C> <U+2719><U+271D><U+270F><U+271D><U+2701><U+2720><U+261B><U+271D><U+270D>
                        <U+272C><U+2732>         <U+2722><U+2724><U+271C> <U+271F><U+271D><U+270F><U+261B> <U+261B><U+2702> <U+2706><U+271F><U+271D><U+2701>
                   <U+272C><U+2734>        <U+2722><U+271F><U+271D><U+2701> <U+2720><U+2704><U+2704><U+271D><U+271F><U+271F><U+271D><U+271F> <U+261B><U+260E><U+271D> <U+2711><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706><U+2701><U+271D> <U+2702><U+2701>
                                    <U+271E><U+2701><U+2702><U+271E><U+2702><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+2702><U+270F><U+2721><U+270C><U+270F><U+271D>

              <U+271E><U+271F>
                   <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
<removed-date>
                             <U+2720><U+270C>
                             <U+2720><U+261E>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2720><U+261B>
                             <U+2720><U+2721>
                             <U+2720><U+2720>
                             <U+2720><U+270D>
                             <U+2720><U+270E>
                             <U+2720><U+270F>
                             <U+2720><U+2711>
                             <U+270D><U+2712>
                             <U+270D><U+270C>

   <U+2719><U+271B><U+272B><U+2719><U+271B><U+272A> <U+272F><U+271C><U+2719><U+2718><U+2725> <U+272E><U+2719><U+2722><U+272D><U+272C>
                                       <U+273F><U+2746><U+2744><U+2741><U+2740><U+2749><U+273E><U+273D><U+2748><U+2747><U+273F><U+2746><U+2744><U+2745><U+2744><U+2741><U+273E><U+2740><U+2743><U+2742><U+273D> <U+2742><U+2740><U+2741><U+2740><U+273F><U+273E><U+273D><U+273C>
                          <U+2701><U+271E><U+2702>
          <U+2723><U+2605><U+2722><U+271C><U+2718><U+2729><U+2719><U+2605><U+2727><U+2723><U+2722>                                                     <U+2704><U+2702><U+2702>
      <U+271B><U+2737><U+2723><U+271B><U+2719><U+271B><U+2727><U+271B><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2719><U+271B><U+272A><U+2730>
             <U+2719><U+271B><U+272B><U+2719><U+271B><U+272A>
<U+2729><U+2719><U+2605><U+2727><U+271C><U+2718><U+2726><U+2725> <U+2724><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B><U+271A><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>
                                              <U+271D><U+2706><U+2702>
                          <U+2701><U+2704><U+2702>
    <U+271B><U+2719><U+2736><U+272D><U+2737><U+2605><U+2719><U+2739><U+2738><U+2726><U+2718><U+272A><U+2605><U+2725><U+2605><U+2719><U+2725>
<U+271B><U+2719><U+2718><U+2725><U+271B><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2605><U+271C> <U+272A><U+2723><U+2605><U+2722><U+271C><U+2737><U+2736><U+2719><U+271C><U+272A><U+2723><U+2735>
                                                                          <U+2734><U+2733><U+2732>
      <U+2714><U+270F><U+2716><U+2714><U+270F><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2712><U+2711><U+270F><U+270E>
                          <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                               <U+270D> <U+270C><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F>
       <removed-date>        <removed-apn>

              <U+2727><U+2605><U+2605>                         <U+271B><U+271C><U+2722><U+2723><U+2724><U+2725> <U+2726>
<removed-date>
                     <U+2727><U+2605><U+2727>        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2701><U+260E><U+2706><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2701> <U+2702><U+2720><U+2721><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701><U+271E><U+261B><U+261E> <U+261B><U+270C> <U+271E><U+261E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+2701><U+271F>
                                  <U+270D><U+270E><U+2701><U+271F><U+2702><U+271D> <U+2701><U+2702><U+261E><U+270F><U+2701> <U+260E><U+261E><U+271E><U+2711><U+260E><U+2702> <U+2712><U+2713>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+2727><U+2605><U+2729>     <U+2714><U+2701><U+2701><U+261B><U+2715><U+271E><U+2714><U+271F><U+2702><U+270F> <U+2716><U+271E><U+271F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2704><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2701><U+2714><U+2718> <U+271F><U+261B>
                                             <U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                          <U+2727><U+272A><U+2605>         <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2714><U+2715><U+2715><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2716><U+2702><U+2706><U+2701><U+271E><U+271F><U+2702>
                                      <U+2714><U+2701><U+2701><U+261B><U+2715><U+271E><U+2714><U+271F><U+2702><U+270F> <U+2716><U+271E><U+271F><U+2717> <U+2712><U+2713>
                          <U+2727><U+272B><U+2605>     <U+2719><U+2704><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2701><U+2714><U+2718> <U+270F><U+271E><U+2701><U+2721><U+2718><U+2714><U+270E><U+2702><U+270F> <U+261B><U+261E> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>
                                            <U+270F><U+2702><U+271A><U+271E><U+2715><U+2702>
                          <U+2727><U+272C><U+2605>       <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+271E><U+261E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2714><U+2715><U+271F><U+2701> <U+2716><U+271E><U+271F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2704><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2701><U+2714><U+2718>
                                          <U+261B><U+261E> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+270F><U+2702><U+271A><U+271E><U+2715><U+2702>
                                      <U+270D><U+2702><U+2704><U+271A><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2702><U+2715><U+2702><U+271E><U+271A><U+2702><U+2701> <U+270F><U+2714><U+271F><U+2714>
                          <U+2727><U+272D><U+2605>     <U+271E><U+261E><U+270F><U+271E><U+2715><U+2714><U+271F><U+271E><U+271A><U+2702> <U+261B><U+270C> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+271E><U+261E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2714><U+2715><U+271F><U+271E><U+261B><U+261E>
                                          <U+2716><U+271E><U+271F><U+2717> <U+2721><U+2704><U+261B><U+2721><U+261B><U+2701><U+2714><U+2718>
                                   <U+2719><U+2704><U+261B><U+2715><U+2702><U+2701><U+2701> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+271E><U+261E><U+271F><U+2702><U+2704><U+2714><U+2715><U+271F><U+271E><U+261B><U+261E>
                          <U+2727><U+2727><U+2605>     <U+270F><U+2714><U+271F><U+2714> <U+2714><U+261E><U+270F> <U+261B><U+260E><U+271F><U+2721><U+260E><U+271F> <U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+261B><U+2704><U+271D><U+2714><U+271F><U+271E><U+261B><U+261E>
                                    <U+2714><U+2706><U+261B><U+260E><U+271F> <U+260E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2721><U+2704><U+2702><U+270C><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+261E><U+2715><U+2702><U+2701>
                                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+2721><U+2704><U+2702><U+270C><U+2702><U+2704><U+2702><U+261E><U+2715><U+2702> <U+271E><U+261E><U+270C><U+261B><U+2704><U+271D><U+2714><U+271F><U+271E><U+261B><U+261E>
                          <U+2727><U+272E><U+2605>      <U+2721><U+2704><U+261B><U+271A><U+271E><U+270F><U+2702><U+270F> <U+271F><U+261B> <U+271A><U+2702><U+261E><U+270F><U+261B><U+2704> <U+261B><U+2704> <U+271F><U+2717><U+271E><U+2704><U+270F>
                                          <U+2721><U+2714><U+2704><U+271F><U+270E> <U+2721><U+2718><U+2714><U+271F><U+270C><U+261B><U+2704><U+271D>
                    <U+2727><U+2729><U+2605>         <U+272F><U+261B><U+2718><U+2718><U+261B><U+2716> <U+260E><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2704> <U+271F><U+2714><U+2704><U+2730><U+2702><U+271F><U+2702><U+270F> <U+2714><U+270F><U+271A><U+2702><U+2704><U+271F><U+271E><U+2701><U+271E><U+261E><U+2730>

              <U+271E><U+271F><U+271F>
                    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2706> <U+271D>
<removed-date>
                              <U+2720><U+270D><U+261B>
                              <U+2720><U+270C><U+261B>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2720><U+2720><U+261B>
                              <U+2720><U+261E><U+261B>
                              <U+2720><U+2721><U+261B>
                              <U+2720><U+270E><U+261B>
                              <U+2720><U+270F><U+261B>
                              <U+2720><U+2711><U+261B>
                              <U+2720><U+2712><U+261B>
                              <U+261E><U+261B><U+261B>
                              <U+261E><U+270D><U+261B>
                              <U+261E><U+270C><U+261B>

   <U+2719><U+271B><U+272B><U+2719><U+271B><U+272A> <U+272F><U+271C><U+2719><U+2718><U+2725> <U+272E><U+2719><U+2722><U+272D><U+272C>
                                       <U+2749><U+273D><U+273B><U+273F><U+2737><U+274D><U+2738><U+2741><U+2740><U+25CF><U+2749><U+273D><U+273B><U+2736><U+273B><U+273F><U+2738><U+2737><U+274B><U+274A><U+2741> <U+274A><U+2737><U+273F><U+2737><U+2749><U+2738><U+2741><U+2748>
                            <U+2701><U+271E>
                                                                            <U+2704>
          <U+2723><U+2605><U+2722><U+271C><U+2718><U+2729><U+2719><U+2605><U+2727><U+2723><U+2722>
      <U+271B><U+2744><U+2723><U+271B><U+2719><U+271B><U+2727><U+271B><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2719><U+271B><U+272A><U+2747>
             <U+2719><U+271B><U+272B><U+2719><U+271B><U+272A>
<U+2729><U+2719><U+2605><U+2727><U+271C><U+2718><U+2726><U+2725> <U+2724><U+2723><U+2722><U+271C><U+271B><U+271A><U+2719><U+2718><U+2717>                                                          <U+2704><U+2702>
                                              <U+2706><U+2702>
                            <U+2701><U+2704>
    <U+271B><U+2719><U+2743><U+272D><U+2744><U+2605><U+2719><U+2746><U+2745><U+2726><U+2718><U+272A><U+2605><U+2725><U+2605><U+2719><U+2725>
<U+271B><U+2719><U+2718><U+2725><U+271B><U+2719><U+2725> <U+2605><U+271C> <U+272A><U+2723><U+2605><U+2722><U+271C><U+2744><U+2743><U+2719><U+271C><U+272A><U+2723><U+2742>
                                                 <U+273D><U+273C><U+273B><U+273F><U+2741><U+2740><U+2738><U+273C><U+273E><U+273D><U+273B>
                                          <U+273F><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+2737><U+273F><U+273D><U+273B> <U+273E><U+273C> <U+273D><U+273C><U+273B><U+2736><U+2736><U+2737><U+2738><U+273A><U+2739><U+2737> <U+2738><U+2737><U+2736><U+2735>
      <U+2714><U+270F><U+2716><U+2714><U+270F><U+2715> <U+2714><U+2713><U+2712><U+2711><U+270F><U+270E>
                             <U+2701><U+271D>
                                                                            <U+2734><U+2733><U+2732>
                                                                 <U+270D> <U+270C><U+261E><U+261B><U+2721><U+2720><U+271F>
<removed-date>               <removed-apn>

              <U+272B><U+272C><U+272C>
                                          <U+2724><U+2725><U+2726><U+2727><U+2605><U+2729> <U+272A>
<removed-date>
                     <U+272B><U+272C><U+2731>        <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D> <U+271E><U+260E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2721><U+261B><U+261E><U+270C><U+270D><U+2706><U+2721> <U+260E><U+270E><U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+2721><U+2721><U+270D><U+2702><U+271F>
                                           <U+2702><U+270F> <U+270D><U+271F><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+260E><U+2721><U+2706>
                                  <U+2711><U+271D><U+2721><U+2706><U+260E><U+270C> <U+2721><U+260E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2721> <U+261B><U+271F><U+270D><U+2712><U+261B><U+260E> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715>
                          <U+272B><U+272C><U+272D>     <U+2716><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+2717><U+270D><U+2716><U+2706><U+260E><U+2720> <U+2718><U+270D><U+2706><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2717><U+2719><U+261B><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2706><U+2702>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+2704><U+2702><U+2706><U+260E><U+271F><U+2706><U+270D><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D>
                                          <U+2704><U+261B><U+2701><U+2717><U+2719><U+2716><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701><U+2721>
                                       <U+2702><U+2706><U+260E><U+271F><U+2706><U+270D><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2704><U+261B><U+2701><U+2717><U+2719><U+2716><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701><U+2721>
                          <U+272B><U+272E><U+272C>          <U+2716><U+2717><U+2717><U+260E><U+2721><U+2721><U+260E><U+2721> <U+2718><U+260E><U+261E><U+2721><U+270D><U+2706><U+260E>
                                      <U+2716><U+2721><U+2721><U+2702><U+2717><U+270D><U+2716><U+2706><U+260E><U+2720> <U+2718><U+270D><U+2706><U+2719> <U+2713><U+2714><U+2715>
                                     <U+271B><U+2701><U+2702><U+2717><U+2719><U+261B><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2720><U+270D><U+2721><U+2704><U+271A><U+2716><U+271D><U+260E><U+2720> <U+2702><U+271F>
                          <U+272B><U+272B><U+272C>          <U+2704><U+261B><U+2701><U+2717><U+2719><U+2716><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2720><U+260E><U+271E><U+270D><U+2717><U+260E>
                          <U+272B><U+272F><U+272C>        <U+261B><U+2701><U+2717><U+2719><U+2716><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701> <U+270D><U+271F><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+2716><U+2717><U+2706><U+2721> <U+2718><U+270D><U+2706><U+2719>
                                      <U+261E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2717><U+2719><U+261B><U+2701><U+260E> <U+2702><U+271F> <U+2720><U+260E><U+271E><U+270D><U+2717><U+260E>
                                   <U+271C><U+2716><U+2701><U+2722><U+260E><U+2706><U+270D><U+271F><U+2723> <U+271A><U+2716><U+2706><U+270F><U+2702><U+2701><U+270C> <U+2711><U+260E><U+2701><U+271E><U+260E><U+2701>
                          <U+272B><U+2730><U+272C>      <U+2701><U+260E><U+2717><U+260E><U+270D><U+271E><U+260E><U+2721> <U+2720><U+2716><U+2706><U+2716> <U+270D><U+271F><U+2720><U+270D><U+2717><U+2716><U+2706><U+270D><U+271E><U+260E> <U+2702><U+270F>
                                       <U+2704><U+2702><U+2706><U+260E><U+271F><U+2706><U+270D><U+2716><U+271A> <U+2704><U+261B><U+2701><U+2717><U+2719><U+2716><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701>
                                    <U+270D><U+271F><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+2716><U+2717><U+2706><U+270D><U+2702><U+271F> <U+2718><U+270D><U+2706><U+2719> <U+261E><U+2701><U+2702><U+2717><U+2719><U+261B><U+2701><U+260E>
                                     <U+2701><U+2702><U+2717><U+260E><U+2721><U+2721> <U+261B><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701> <U+270D><U+271F><U+2706><U+260E><U+2701><U+2716><U+2717><U+2706><U+270D><U+2702><U+271F>
                          <U+272B><U+2731><U+272C>     <U+2720><U+2716><U+2706><U+2716> <U+2716><U+271F><U+2720> <U+2702><U+261B><U+2706><U+2704><U+261B><U+2706> <U+270D><U+271F><U+270F><U+2702><U+2701><U+270C><U+2716><U+2706><U+270D><U+2702><U+271F>
                                    <U+2716><U+261E><U+2702><U+261B><U+2706> <U+261B><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+270F><U+260E><U+2701><U+260E><U+271F><U+2717><U+260E><U+2721>
                                  <U+2713><U+2721><U+260E><U+2701> <U+2704><U+2701><U+260E><U+270F><U+260E><U+2701><U+260E><U+271F><U+2717><U+260E> <U+270D><U+271F><U+270F><U+2702><U+2701><U+270C><U+2716><U+2706><U+270D><U+2702><U+271F>
                          <U+272B><U+2732><U+272C>      <U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+271E><U+270D><U+2720><U+260E><U+2720> <U+2706><U+2702> <U+271E><U+260E><U+271F><U+2720><U+2702><U+2701> <U+2721><U+260E><U+2701><U+271E><U+260E><U+2701>
                                      <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2719><U+270D><U+2701><U+2720> <U+2704><U+2716><U+2701><U+2706><U+271D> <U+2721><U+260E><U+2701><U+271E><U+260E><U+2701>
                    <U+272B><U+272D><U+272C>         <U+2733><U+2702><U+271A><U+271A><U+2702><U+2718> <U+261B><U+2704> <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2706><U+2716><U+2701><U+2723><U+260E><U+2706><U+260E><U+2720> <U+2716><U+2720><U+271E><U+260E><U+2701><U+2706><U+270D><U+2721><U+270D><U+271F><U+2723>

