LIPOPROTEIN ANALYSIS BY DIFFERENTIAL CHARGED-PARTICLE
MOBILITY
ABSTRACT
The invention provides apparatus and methods of preparation of lipoproteins from a biological
sample, including HDL, LDL, Lp(a), IDL, and VLDL, for diagnostic purposes utilizing
differential charged-particle mobility analysis methods. Further provided are methods for
analyzing the size distribution of lipoproteins by differential charged-particle mobility, which
lipoproteins are prepared by methods of the invention. Further provided are methods for
assessing lipid-related health risk, cardiovascular condition, risk of cardiovascular disease, and
responsiveness to a therapeutic intervention, which methods utilize lipoprotein size distributions
determined by methods of the invention.

  LIPOPROTEIN ANALYSIS BY DIFFERENTIAL CHARGED-PARTICLE MOBILITY
                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] The present invention generally relates to the fields of particle size analysis and analyses
of biological particles including lipoproteins for diagnostic purposes utilizing ion mobility
measurement devices and methods. The present invention further provides methods and
apparatus for purification and isolation of biomolecules including, without limitation,
lipoproteins and biological complexes containing lipoproteins.
                   CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001a]         This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
11/760672, filed 8 June 2007 and Serial No. 11/760700, filed 8 June 2007, the disclosures of
all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. This application is a
divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a divisional of
Australian Patent No. 2014203214 which in turn is a divisional of Australian Patent No.
2008261868 (national phase of PCT/US2008/066178), the disclosures of each of which are
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] The following description is provided solely to assist the understanding of the present
invention. None of the references cited or information provided is admitted to be prior art to
the present invention.
[0003] Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in the United States. The most
commonly used and accepted methods for determining risk of future heart disease include
determining serum levels of cholesterol and lipoproteins, in addition to patient demographics
and current health. There are well established recommendations for cut-off values for
biochemical markers, including, for example without limitation, cholesterol and lipoprotein
levels, for determining risk. However, cholesterol and lipoprotein measurements are clearly
not the whole story because as many as 50% of people who are at risk for premature heart
disease are currently not encompassed by the ATP III guidelines (i.e., Adult Treatment Panel
III guidelines issued by the National Cholesterol Education Program and the National Heart,
Lung and Blood Institute).
                                                 1

[0004] Methods to measure lipoprotein and other lipids in the blood include, for example
without limitation, evaluation of fasting total cholesterol, triglyceride, HDL (high density
lipoprotein) and/or LDL (low density lipoprotein) cholesterol concentrations. Currently, the
most widely used method for measuring LDL cholesterol is the indirect Friedewald method
(Friedewald, et al., CHn. Chem., 1972, 18:499-502). The Friedewald assay method requires
three steps: 1) determination of plasma triglyceride (TG) and total cholesterol (TC), 2)
precipitation of VLDL (very low density lipoprotein) and LDL (low density lipoprotein), and
3) quantitation of HDL cholesterol (HDLC). Using an estimate for VLDLC as one-fifth of
plasma
                                                 la

triglycerides, the LDL cholesterol concentration (LDLC) is calculated by the formula: LDLC       =
TC-(HDLC+VLDLC). While generally useful, the Friedewald method is of limited accuracy in
certain cases. For example, errors can occur in any of the three steps, in part because this
method requires that different procedures be used in each step. Furthermore, the Friedewald
method is to a degree indirect, as it presumes that VLDLC concentration is one-fifth that of
plasma triglycerides. Accordingly, when the VLDL of some patients deviates from this ratio,
further inaccuracies occur.
[0005]    Another method for evaluating blood lipoproteins contemplates measurement of
lipoprotein size and density. The size distribution of lipoproteins varies among individuals due
to both genetic and nongenetic influences. The diameters of lipoproteins typically range from
about 7 nm to about 120 nm. In this diameter size range, there exist subfractions of the particles
that are important predictors of cardiovascular disease. For example, VLDL transports
triglycerides in the blood stream; thus, high VLDL levels in the blood stream are indicative of
hypertriglyceridemia. These subfractions can be identified by analytical techniques that display
the quantity of material as a function of lipoprotein size or density.
[0006]    Regarding lipoprotein density analysis, ultracentrifugally isolated lipoproteins can be
analyzed for flotation properties by analytic ultracentrifugation in different salt density
backgrounds, allowing for the determination of hydrated LDL density, as shown in Lindgren, et
al, Blood Lipids and Lipoproteins: QuantitationComposition and Metabolism, Ed. G. L. Nelson,
Wiley, 1992, p. 181-274, which is incorporated herein by reference. For example, the LDL class
can be further divided into seven subclasses based on density or diameter by using a preparative
separation technique known as equilibrium density gradient ultracentrifugation. It is known that
elevated levels of specific LDL subclasses, LDL-IIIa, IIb, IVa and IVb, correlates closely with
increased risk for CHD (i.e., coronary heart disease), including atherosclerosis. Furthermore,
determination of the total serum cholesterol level and the levels of cholesterol in the LDL and
HDL fractions are routinely used as diagnostic tests for coronary heart disease risk. Lipoprotein
class and subclass distribution is a more predictive test, however, since it is expensive and time
consuming, it is typically ordered by physicians only for a limited number of patients.
                                                  2

[0007]    With respect to measurement of the sizes of lipoproteins, currently there is no single
accepted method. Known methods for measuring the sizes of lipoproteins within a clinical
setting include the vertical auto profile (VAP) (see e.g. Kulkarni, et al., J. Lip. Res.,1994,
35:159-168) whereby a flow analyzer is used for the enzymatic analysis of cholesterol in
lipoprotein classes separated by a short spin single vertical ultracentrifugation, with subsequent
spectrophotometry and analysis of the resulting data.
[0008]    Another method (see e.g. Jeyarajah, E.J. et al., Clin Lab Med., 2006, 26:847-70)
employs nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) for determining the concentrations of lipoprotein
subclasses. In this method, the NMR chemical shift spectrum of a blood plasma or serum sample
is obtained. The observed spectrum of the entire plasma sample is then matched by computer
means with known weighted sums of previously obtained NMR spectra of lipoprotein
subclasses. The weight factors that give the best fit between the sample spectrum and the
calculated spectrum are then used to estimate the concentrations of constituent lipoprotein
subclasses in the blood sample.
[0009]    Another method, electrophoretic gradient gel separation (see e.g. U.S. Pat. No.
5,925,229; incorporated by reference herein) is a gradient gel electrophoresis procedure for the
separation of LDL subclasses. The LDL fractions are separated by gradient gel electrophoresis,
producing results that are comparable to those obtained by ultracentrifugation. This method
generates a fine resolution of LDL subclasses, and is used principally by research laboratories.
However, the gel separation method, which depends on uniform staining of all components that
are subsequently optically measured, suffers from nonuniform chromogenicity. That is, not all
lipoproteins stain equally well. Accordingly, the differential stain uptake can produce erroneous
quantitative results. Additionally, the nonuniform chromogenicity can result in erroneous
qualitative results, in that measured peaks may be skewed to a sufficient degree as to cause
confusion of one class or subclass of lipoprotein with another. Furthermore, gradient gel
electrophoresis can take many hours to complete.
[0010]    Indeed, more recent methods for the quantitative and qualitative determination of
lipoproteins from a biological sample have been described by Benner et al. (U.S. Patent No.
                                                  3

7,259,018; incorporated by reference herein) which methods employ particulate size and/or ion
mobility devices.
                                 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0011]    By the present invention there are provided methods for the preparation of sample for,
and apparatus useful for, differential charged-particle mobility analysis (also referred to herein as
"ion mobility analysis") of lipoproteins utilizing a gas-phase electrophoretic-mobility molecular
analyzer.
[0012]    In a first aspect the invention provides a method for purifying lipoproteins suitable for
differential charged-particle mobility analysis of lipoprotein class and subclass, which method
includes the following steps: (a) preparing a centrifuge tube containing a first solution
underneath a sample, which sample has one or more lipoproteins and non-lipoprotein
components, which first solution has a first density greater than 1.00 g/mL and less than or equal
to about 1.21 g/mL; and (b) subjecting the tube to centrifugation sufficient to cause the non
lipoprotein components to migrate toward the bottom of the tube and away from the lipoproteins,
thereby providing purified lipoproteins. In some embodiments, the first density is in the range of
about 1.15 g/mL to about 1.21 g/mL. In some embodiments, the first solution is preferably an
aqueous solution, more preferably water or deuterated forms thereof.
[0013]    In the context of this aspect of the invention, the sample containing lipoproteins is
obtained by processing of a blood specimen from a mammal as described herein, which
processing optionally includes adjustment of density by the addition of salts including for
example, without limitation, the Cl, Br, and/or I salts of Na, K, and/or Cs.
[0014]    Further to this aspect of the invention are provided in certain embodiments a second
solution within the centrifuge tube, above and adjacent to the sample, which second solution is
preferably of lower density than the first solution. Accordingly, the density of the second
solution is greater than or equal to 1.00 g/mL and less than the density of the first solution. In
some embodiments, the second solution is an aqueous solution. Surprisingly, it has been found
that overlaying a lipoprotein-containing sample in a centrifuge tube with a solution having lower
density results in enhanced recovery of lipoprotein following centrifugal separation. Without
                                                   4

wishing to be bound by any theory, it is believed that ionic flow from the more dense
lipoprotein-containing solution to the less dense, preferably aqueous, overlaid second solution
modulates the buoyancy of lipids therein, resulting in enhanced recovery of lipoprotein.
[0015]    As used herein, "centrifugation" refers to separation or analysis of substances in a
solution as a function of density and density-related molecular weight by subjecting the solution
to a centrifugal force generated by high-speed rotation in an appropriate instrument.
[0016]    As used herein, "purify" and like terms refer to an increase in the relative concentration
of a specified component with respect to other components. For example without limitation,
removal of lipid from a lipoprotein solution constitutes purification of the lipoprotein fraction, at
e.g. the expense of the lipid fraction. It is understood that "purifying" and like terms in the
context of centrifugation refers to sufficient separation in a centrifuge tube following
centrifugation to allow extraction of the separated components by methods well known in the art
including, without limitation, aspiration and/or fractionation. Surprisingly, it has been found that
reducing the density of lipoprotein-containing solutions prior to centrifugation for example,
without limitation, by reducing the salt concentration thereof, results in enhanced recovery of
certain fractions of lipoprotein, including LDL and HDL fractions.
[0017]    The terms "lipoprotein" and "lipoprotein particle" as used herein refer to particles
obtained from mammalian blood which include apolipoproteins biologically assembled with
noncovalent bonds to package for example, without limitation, cholesterol and other lipids.
Lipoproteins preferably refer to biological particles having a size range of about 7 to 120 nm,
and include VLDL (very low density lipoproteins), IDL (intermediate density lipoproteins), LDL
(low density lipoproteins), Lp(a) [lipoprotein (a)], HDL (high density lipoproteins) and
chylomicrons as defined herein.
[0018]    The term "apolipoprotein" as used herein refers to lipid-binding proteins which
constitute lipoproteins. Apolipoproteins are classified in five major classes: Apo A, Apo B, Apo
C, Apo D, and Apo E, as known in the art.
[0019]    The term "biological particle" as used herein refers to a material having a non
covalently bound assembly of molecules derived from a living source. Examples without
                                                   5

limitation of biological particles include lipoproteins assembled for example from
apolipoproteins and lipids; viral components assembled from non-covalently bound coat proteins
and glycoproteins; immune complexes assembled from antibodies and their cognate antigens,
and the like.
[0020]     The terms "marker," "biochemical marker" and like terms as used herein refer to
naturally occurring biomolecules (or derivatives thereof) with known correlations to a disease or
condition.
[0021]     The term "about" as used herein in the context of a numerical value represents the value
+/- 10% thereof.
[0022]     In another aspect, the invention provides a method for purifying lipoproteins, which
method includes the following steps: (a) preparing a centrifuge tube containing a sample and a
first solution located below and adjacent to the sample, the sample including one or more
lipoproteins and non-lipoprotein components, in which the sample further includes Reactive
Green dextran and dextran sulfate (DS), in which the first solution contains deuterium oxide
(D 20); and (b) subjecting the centrifuge tube to centrifugation sufficient to cause the non
lipoprotein components to migrate toward the bottom of the tube and away from the lipoproteins.
In some embodiments, the purified lipoproteins so separated are then removed for differential
charged-particle mobility analysis. In some embodiments, the density of the first solution is 1.0
g/mL to about 1.21 g/mL. In some embodiments, the density of the first solution is 1.00 g/mL to
about 1.10 g/mL. In some embodiments, the first solution is substantially D 2 0.
[0023]     In another aspect, the invention provides methods for purifying lipoproteins for
differential charged-particle mobility analysis, which methods do not include centrifugation,
which methods include the following steps: a) admixing a solution containing lipoproteins and
non-lipoproteins with one or more polyanionic compounds and one or more divalent cations; b)
allowing a precipitate containing lipoproteins to form in the admixed solution; and c) after step
b), collecting the precipitated lipoproteins and subjecting the precipitated lipoproteins to
differential charged-particle analysis after resolubilization.
                                                   6

[0024]    In another aspect, the invention provides methods for purifying lipoproteins for
differential charged-particle mobility analysis, which methods do not include centrifugation,
which methods include the following steps: a) admixing a solution containing lipoproteins and
non-lipoproteins with one or more lipoprotein-capture ligands capable of binding lipoproteins to
form a lipoprotein/lipoprotein-capture ligand complex; b) isolating the lipoprotein/lipoprotein
capture ligand complex; and c) releasing the lipoproteins from the lipoprotein/lipoprotein
capture ligand complex and subjecting the lipoproteins to differential charged-particle mobility
analysis. In some embodiments, the lipoproteins are selected from the group consisting of HDL,
LDL, Lp(a), IDL and VLDL. In some embodiments, the lipoprotein-capture ligand is selected
from the group of aptamer and antibody. In some embodiments, the lipoprotein-capture ligand is
an antibody.
[0025]    In certain embodiments of the aspects contemplating isolation and/or purifying of
lipoproteins described herein, the invention provides methods for analyzing the size distribution
of lipoproteins, which methods include the following steps: (a) providing one or more
lipoproteins in accordance with any of the methods described herein; and (b) subjecting one or
more lipoproteins to charged-particle mobility analysis, thereby determining the size distribution
of the lipoproteins. In some embodiments of the above aspects, methods are used to determine in
a patient sample the concentration of HDL, LDL, IDL, and VLDL and more preferably HDL,
LDL, IDL, VLDL and Lp(a). The patient sample is preferably plasma or serum. The methods as
described herein may also include the use of an internal standard such as one or more labeled
lipoproteins (e.g. fluorescent label) to monitor sample loss during processing so as to obtain
more accurate determinations of lipoprotein concentration in the starting sample to be evaluated.
[0026]    In another aspect, the invention provides methods for analyzing the size distribution of
lipoproteins, which methods include the following steps: (a) determining a differential mobility
particle size distribution in one or more regions of particle sizes for one or more lipoproteins
subjected to differential charged-particle mobility analysis; (b) subtracting contribution to the
particle size distribution of a non-lipoprotein reagent or a non-lipoprotein sample material to
obtain a lipoprotein particle size distribution; and (c) outputting the lipoprotein particle size
distribution to a display, a printer or a memory.
                                                   7

                                                8
[0027] In another aspect, the invention provides a computer-readable medium including a
computer code stored thereon, the computer code for analyzing the size distribution of
lipoproteins includes (a) determining a differential mobility particle size distribution in one
or more regions of particle sizes for one or more lipoproteins subjected to differential
charged-particle mobility analysis; (b) subtracting contribution to the particle size
distribution of a non-lipoprotein reagent or a non-lipoprotein sample material to obtain a
lipoprotein particle size distribution; and (c) outputting the lipoprotein size distribution to a
display, a printer or a memory.
[0028] In another aspect, the invention provides apparatus for differential charged-particle
mobility analysis including (a) one or more pumps adapted to transport sample through a
capillary, (b) an ionizer adapted to charge particles of the sample as the sample flows
within the capillary, and (c) an ion mobility analyzer adapted to perform a differential
charged-particle mobility analysis on the sample of charged particles. The ionizer may
include a conductive union around a part of the capillary. In one embodiment, the
conductive union forms a microtite region in a part of the capillary and applies a charge to
the sample flowing therethrough, thereby charging particles of the sample.
[0029] Certain embodiments of the apparatus further comprise an autosampler adapted to
provide a sample for differential charged-particle mobility analysis to one or more pumps.
[0030] In some embodiments, one or more pumps may include a high-flow pump adapted
to provide the sample to a nanoflow pump, the nanoflow pump being adapted to provide
the sample to the capillary. The high-flow pump may pump sample at a rate of
approximately 15-25 microliters per minute, and the nanoflow pump may pump the sample
at a rate of approximately 100-200 nano liters per minute.
[0030a] In certain embodiments there is described herein:
[1]      A method for purifying lipoproteins suitable for differential charged-particle
mobility analysis of lipoprotein class and subclass, said method comprising:
               (a)       preparing a centrifuge tube containing a first solution underneath a
               sample, said sample comprising one or more lipoproteins and non-lipoprotein
               components, said first solution having a first density greater than 1.00 g/mL
               and less than or equal to about 1.21 g/mL; and

                                         8a
       (b)       subjecting said tube to centrifugation sufficient to cause said non
       lipoprotein components to migrate toward the bottom of the tube and away
       from said lipoproteins.
[2]      The method according to [1], wherein said first solution has a density in the
range of about 1.15 g/mL to about 1.21 g/mL.
[3]      The method according to [1], wherein said centrifuge tube further comprises
a second solution having a second density greater than or equal to 1.00 g/mL and
less than said first density, and
wherein said second solution is located above and adjacent to said sample prior to
centrifugation.
[4]      The method according to [1], wherein said one or more lipoproteins are
selected from the group consisting of HDL, LDL, IDL, Lp(a) and VLDL.
[5]      The method according to [4], wherein said one or more lipoproteins are
HDL.
[6]      The method according to [1], wherein said one or more lipoproteins and
non-lipoprotein components are from a plasma sample.
[7]      The method according to either of [1] or [3], wherein said centrifugation
does not reach equilibrium.
[8]      The method according to either of [1] or [3], further comprising:
       (c)       collecting said purified lipoproteins from the top portion of said
       centrifuge tube following centrifugation.
[9]      The method according to either of [1] or [3], wherein said sample further
comprises dextran sulfate under conditions wherein said one or more lipoproteins
are not precipitated from said sample.
[10]     The method according to [1], wherein said sample further comprises an
albumin-binding compound capable of binding albumin to form an albumin
albumin binding compound complex, and
wherein said centrifugation causes said albumin-albumin binding compound
complex to be separated from said purified lipoproteins.
[11]     The method according to [10], wherein said albumin-binding compound is
an analog of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD).
[12]     The method according to [11], wherein said NAD analog is selected from
the group consisting of Reactive Green 19 and Cibacrom Blue 3GA.

                                         8b
[13]      The method according to [11], wherein said NAD analog is conjugated to a
chromatographic medium selected from the group consisting of paramagnetic
particles, dextran, agarose and Sephadex@.
[14]      The method according to [1], wherein said sample further comprises a non
lipoprotein capture ligand capable of binding non-lipoprotein to form a non
lipoprotein/non-lipoprotein capture ligand complex, and
wherein said centrifugation causes said non-lipoprotein/non-lipoprotein capture
ligand complex to be separated from said lipoprotein components.
[15]      The method according to [14], wherein said non-lipoprotein capture ligand
is selected from the group consisting of aptamer and antibody.
[16]      The method according to either of [1] or [3], wherein Lp(a) is removed from
said sample prior to centrifugation by:
       (i)  forming a precipitate of Lp(a) by admixing said sample with a precipitant
       for Apo B-containing lipoprotein under conditions sufficient to cause
       precipitation of Lp(a); and
       (ii) isolating said Lp(a) containing precipitate from said sample.
[17]      The method according to [8], wherein Lp(a) is removed from said collected
lipoproteins by:
       (i)    forming a precipitate comprising Lp(a) by admixing said collected
       lipoproteins with a precipitant for Apo B-containing lipoprotein under
       conditions sufficient to cause precipitation of Lp(a); and
       (ii)   isolating said Lp(a) containing precipitate from the collected
       lipoproteins.
[18]      The method according to either of [16] or [17], wherein said precipitant for
Apo B-containing lipoprotein comprises dextran sulfate and a divalent cation.
[19]      The method according to [18], wherein said divalent cation is Mg2+
[20]      A method for obtaining purified Lp(a), said method comprising:
       (1)    solubilizing said Lp(a) containing precipitate obtained according to
       either of [16] or [17];
       (2)    admixing said solubilized Lp(a) with a solid-support reagent containing
       a lectin attached to a solid support under conditions suitable to allow
       formation of a Lp(a)-lectin complex;
       (3)    isolating said Lp(a)-lectin complex; and

                                       8c
      (4)    releasing said Lp(a) from said Lp(a)-lectin complex, thereby providing
      purified lipoproteins suitable for differential charged-particle mobility
      analysis.
[21]     The method according to [20], wherein said lectin is selected from the
group consisting of wheat germ agglutinin (WGA), lima bean agglutinin (LGA),
phytohemagglutinin (PHA), and horseshoe crab lectin (HCL).
[22]     The method according to [21], wherein said lectin is WGA.
[23]     The method according to [21], wherein said solid support comprises
agarose.
[24]     The method according to [21], wherein said releasing comprises washing
said Lp(a)-lectin complex with a competitive ligand for WGA.
[25]     The method according to [24], wherein said competitive ligand is
N-acetylglucosamine (NAG).
[26]     The method according to [21], wherein said releasing comprises disulfide
reduction of said Lp(a)-lectin complex.
[27]     A method for obtaining purified Lp(a), said method comprising:
      (1)    solubilizing said Lp(a) containing precipitate obtained according to
      either of [16] or [17];
      (2)    admixing said solubilized Lp(a) with gamma globulins and proline to
      form an admixture;
      (3)    precipitating said admixture by addition of a precipitant; and
      (4)    recovering Lp(a) from said precipitate, thereby providing purified
      lipoproteins suitable for differential charged-particle mobility analysis.
[28]     The method according to [27], wherein said precipitant is ammonium
sulfate.
[29]     The method according to [1], wherein said first solution is aqueous and
comprises deuterium oxide.
[30]     The method according to [29], wherein said aqueous solution is
substantially deuterium oxide.
[31]     The method according to [1], wherein said first solution is in contact with
an inert centrifugation matrix.
[32]     The method according to [31], wherein said inert centrifugation matrix
comprises gel slurry or inert beads.

                                         8d
[33]    The method according to [32], wherein said gel slurry comprises a
Sephadex@ gel matrix.
[34]    The method according to [32], wherein said inert centrifugation matrix
comprises inert beads.
[35]    A method for purifying lipoproteins, said method comprising:
      (a)    preparing a centrifuge tube containing a sample and a first solution
      located below and adjacent to said sample, said sample comprising one or
      more lipoproteins and non-lipoprotein components,
      wherein said sample further comprises Reactive Green dextran and dextran
      sulfate,
      wherein said first solution comprises deuterium oxide; and
      (b)    subjecting said tube to centrifugation sufficient to cause said non
      lipoprotein components to migrate toward the bottom of the tube and away
      from said lipoproteins.
[36]    The method according to [35], wherein said first solution has a density of
1.00 g/mL to about 1.21 g/mL.
[37]    The method according to [35], wherein said first solution has a density of
1.00 g/mL to about 1.10 g/mL.
[38]    A method for purifying lipoproteins for differential charged-particle
mobility analysis, said method not including centrifugation, said method
comprising:
      (a)    admixing a solution comprising lipoproteins and non-lipoproteins with
      one or more polyanionic compounds and one or more divalent cations;
      (b)    allowing a precipitate containing lipoproteins to form in said admixed
      solution; and
      (c)    after step (b), collecting the precipitated lipoproteins and subjecting
      same to differential charged-particle mobility analysis.
[39]    The method of [38], wherein said polyanionic compound is selected from
the group consisting of dextran sulfate, amylopectin, and polyvinyl sulfate, and
                                                                                  2+ 2
wherein said divalent cation is selected from the group consisting of Mg2 and Ca2+
[40]    A method for analyzing the size distribution of lipoproteins, said method
comprising:

                                        8e
      (i)    providing one or more lipoproteins in accordance with the methods of
      any of [1], [35], or [38]; and
      (ii)   subjecting said one or more lipoproteins to differential charged-particle
      mobility analysis, thereby determining the size distribution of said
      lipoproteins.
[41]     The method according to [40], wherein said one or more lipoproteins are
from a plasma sample obtained from an individual.
[42]     The method according to [40], wherein said one or more lipoproteins are
selected from the group consisting of HDL, LDL, Lp(a), IDL and VLDL.
[43]     The method according to [41], further comprising:
      (iii)  using said determined lipoproteins size distribution to conduct an
      assessment of said individual, said assessment selected from the group
      consisting of lipid-related health risk, cardiovascular condition, risk of
      cardiovascular disease, and responsiveness to a therapeutic intervention.
[44]     A method for purifying lipoproteins for differential charged-particle
mobility analysis, said method not including centrifugation, said method
comprising:
      (a)    admixing a solution comprising lipoproteins and non-lipoproteins with
      one or more lipoprotein-capture ligands capable of binding lipoproteins to
      form a lipoprotein/lipoprotein-capture ligand complex;
      (b)    isolating said lipoprotein/lipoprotein-capture ligand complex; and
      (c)    releasing said lipoproteins from said lipoprotein/lipoprotein-capture
      ligand complex and subjecting said lipoproteins to differential charged
      particle mobility analysis.
[45]     The method according to [44], wherein said lipoproteins are selected from
the group consisting of HDL, LDL, Lp(a), IDL and VLDL.
[46]     The method according to [44], wherein said lipoprotein-capture ligand is
selected from the group consisting of aptamer and antibody.
[47]     The method according to [44], wherein said lipoprotein-capture ligand is an
antibody.
[48]     The method according to [40], wherein step (ii) comprises:
      (1)    determining a particle size distribution in one or more regions of
      particle sizes;

                                         8f
       (2)    subtracting contribution to the particle size distribution of a non
       lipoprotein reagent or a non-lipoprotein sample material to obtain a
       lipoprotein particle size distribution; and
       (3)    outputting the lipoprotein particle size distribution to a display, a
       printer, or a memory.
[49]     The method according to [48], wherein said determining a particle size
distribution comprises determining a best fit for said one or more regions.
[50]     The method according to [49], wherein the best fit is of the form:
where y1 is a contribution to the measured differential mobility size distribution, k\
is an empirical constant of the fit, and d is particle diameter;
wherein said determining a best fit includes calculating a value for ki.
[51]     The method according to [48], wherein said subtracting comprises applying
a theoretical curve representing particle size distribution of said non-lipoprotein
reagent or said non-lipoprotein sample material.
[52]     The method according to [48], wherein said non-lipoprotein reagent is
Reactive Green 19 conjugated with dextran (RGD).
[53]     The method according to [48], wherein said non-lipoprotein sample material
is albumin.
[54]     A method for analyzing the size distribution of lipoproteins, comprising:
       (a)    determining a differential mobility particle size distribution in one or
       more regions of particle sizes for one or more lipoproteins subjected to
       differential charged-particle mobility analysis;
       (b)    subtracting contribution to the particle size distribution of a non
       lipoprotein reagent or a non-lipoprotein sample material to obtain a
       lipoprotein particle size distribution; and
       (c)    outputting the lipoprotein particle size distribution to a display, a printer
       or a memory.
[55]     The method according to [54], wherein said determining a particle size
distribution comprises determining a best fit for said one or more regions.
[56]     The method according to [55], wherein the best fit is of the form:
                                     y, = k1 * e(-0. 7 *d)
where y1 is a contribution to the measured differential mobility size distribution, k\
is an empirical constant of the fit, and d is particle diameter;
wherein said determining a best fit includes calculating a value for ki.

                                         8g
[57]     The method according to [54], wherein said subtracting comprises applying
a theoretical curve representing particle size distribution of the non-lipoprotein
reagent or the non-lipoprotein sample material.
[58]     The method according to [54], wherein said non-lipoprotein reagent is
Reactive Green 19 conjugated with dextran (RGD).
[59]     The method according to [54], wherein said non-lipoprotein sample material
is albumin.
[60]     A computer-readable medium including a computer code stored thereon,
said computer code for analyzing the size distribution of lipoproteins, comprising:
       (a)    determining a differential mobility particle size distribution in one or
       more regions of particle sizes for one or more lipoproteins subjected to
       differential charged-particle mobility analysis;
       (b)    subtracting contribution to the particle size distribution of a non
       lipoprotein reagent or a non-lipoprotein sample material to obtain a
       lipoprotein particle size distribution; and
       (c)    outputting the lipoprotein size distribution to a display, a printer or a
       memory.
[61]     The computer-readable medium according to [60], wherein the computer
code further comprises:
determining a particle size distribution by determining a best fit for said one or
more regions.
[62]     The computer-readable medium according to [61], wherein the best fit is of
the form:
                                     y, = k1 * e(-0. 7 *d)
where ys is a contribution to the measured differential mobility size distribution, k\
is an empirical constant of the fit, and d is particle diameter;
wherein said determining a best fit includes calculating a value for k\,
[63]     The computer-readable medium according to [60], wherein said subtracting
comprises applying a theoretical curve representing particle size distribution of said
non-lipoprotein reagent or said non-lipoprotein sample material.
[64]     The computer-readable medium according to [60], wherein said non
lipoprotein reagent is Reactive Green 19 conjugated with dextran (RGD).
65. The computer-readable medium according to Claim 60, wherein said non
lipoprotein sample material is albumin.

                                        8h
[66]    An apparatus for differential charged-particle mobility analysis, comprising:
      (a)    one or more pumps adapted to transport sample through a capillary;
      (b)    an ionizer adapted to charge particles of said sample as the sample
      flows within the capillary; and
      (c)    an ion mobility analyzer adapted to perform a differential charged
      particle mobility analysis on said sample of charged particles.
[67]    The apparatus according to [66], further comprising an autosampler adapted
to provide a sample for differential charged-particle mobility analysis to said one or
more pumps.
[68]    The apparatus according to [66], wherein said sample comprises
lipoproteins.
[69]    The apparatus according to [66], wherein said one or more pumps
comprises a high-flow pump adapted to provide the sample to a nanoflow pump,
said nanoflow pump adapted to provide the sample to the capillary.
[70]    The apparatus according to [69], wherein the high-flow pump pumps the
sample at a rate of approximately 15-25 microliters per minute, and wherein the
nanoflow pump pumps the sample at a rate of approximately 100-200 nanoliters per
minute.
[71]    The apparatus according to [66], wherein said ionizer comprises a
conductive union around a part of the capillary.
[72]    The apparatus according to [71], wherein said conductive union applies a
charge to the sample flowing therethrough, thereby charging particles of the
sample.
[73]    The apparatus according to [71], wherein said conductive union forms a
microtite region in a part of the capillary and applies a charge to the sample flowing
therethrough, thereby charging particles of the sample.
[74]    The apparatus according to [73], wherein said microtite region has a dead
volume of approximately, 5-50 nanoliters.
[75]    The apparatus according to [74], wherein said microtite region has a dead
volume of approximately, 10-15 nanoliters.

                                              8i
                      BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0031] FIG. 1 shows the effect of density on lipoprotein recovery from a plasma sample
during a 3.7 hr ultracentrifugation. Samples were prepared in duplicate using different
density solutions and centrifugation for 3.7 hr. After collecting the lipoprotein fraction, it
was dialyzed before analysis by differential charged-particle mobility. Each panel shows
the profile of each replicate.

Solution densities: A   = 1.23 g/mL; B  = 1.181 g/mL; C = 1.170 g/mL; D    =  1.165 g/mL The
abscissa is lipoprotein diameter (nm), and the ordinate is an arbitrarily scaled mass coordinate,
which mass coordinate is linearly related to the actual number of particles counted as a function
of size (i.e., diameter).
[0032]     FIG. 2 shows a comparison of lipoprotein recovery from plasma using either a D 2 0 or a
low salt protocol (without D 2 0) in a centrifugation separation experiment. Dark profile reflects a
2 hr centrifugation using D 2 0 as the dense solution (1.107 g/mL). Light profile reflects a 3.7 hr
centrifugation using KBr as the dense solution (1.151 g/mL). A - indicates peak height of
albumin for 2 hr centrifugation; B- indicates the albumin peak height for 3.7 hr centrifugation.
The abscissa is lipoprotein diameter (nm), and the ordinate is an arbitrarily scaled mass
coordinate, as discussed in the legend for FIG. 1.
[0033]     FIG. 3 shows the result of Apo Al, Apo B and total cholesterol (TC) recovery from
plasma using D2 0 in combination with RGD/DS [RGD: Reactive Green 19 (RG 19) conjugated
with dextran; RGD/DS: RGD in combination with DS] in a centrifugation separation experiment.
Abscissa indicates analyte measured. Numbers associated with each box refer to a unique
patient identification numbering system.
[0034]     FIG. 4 shows the result of lipoprotein recovery from plasma after centrifugal
purification using RGD. RGD was added to samples at various concentrations and centrifuged
for 2 hr 15 min using D 2 0 as the dense solution. Albumin Peak heights are indicated for the four
different concentrations of RGD used; A, 10 mg/mL RGD; B, 15 mg/mL RGD; C, 20 mg/mL
RGD; and D, 25 mg/mL RGD. The abscissa is lipoprotein diameter (nm), and the ordinate is an
arbitrarily scaled mass coordinate, as discussed in the legend for FIG. 1.
[0035]     FIG. 5 shows the result of lipoprotein recovery from plasma after centrifugal
purification with RGD and ethylenediaminetetracidic acid (EDTA), or with RGD/DS and EDTA,
and optionally ammonium acetate (AA). Legend: (A) extraction with 7.5 mg/mL RGD and 2.5
mg/mL DS, dilution with 25 mM ammonium acetate with 5 ug/mL DS; (B) extraction with 7.5
mg/mL RGD and 2.5 mg/mL DS, dilution with 25 mM ammonium acetate; (C) extraction with
7.5 mg/mL RGD, dilution with 25 mM ammonium acetate with 5 ug/mL DS; (D) extraction with
7.5 mg/mL RGD, dilution with 25 mM ammonium acetate. The abscissa is lipoprotein diameter
                                                   9

(nm), and the ordinate is an arbitrarily scaled mass coordinate, as discussed in the legend for
FIG. 1.
[0036]     FIG. 6 shows the result of inclusion of DS in the dilution buffer following traditional
density separation and dialysis. A and B: 5 ug/mL DS included in the ammonium acetate
dilution buffer. C and D: no DS in the ammonium acetate dilution buffer. The abscissa is
lipoprotein diameter (nm), and the ordinate is an arbitrarily scaled mass coordinate, as discussed
in the legend for FIG. 1.
[0037]     FIG. 7 shows the resulting lipoprotein profile in conjunction with a typical report on
lipoprotein fractionation by differential charged-particle mobility analysis. The abscissa is
lipoprotein diameter (nm), and the ordinate is a mass, calculated from differential charged
particle mobility data and parameters as known in the art. Areas shown with cross-hatching
indicate relative risk, with the diagonal-lined sections representing medium risk, vertical-lined
sections representing lower risk, cross-hatched sections representing higher risk, and the shaded
sections representing indeterminate risk.
[0038]     FIG. 8 illustrates an apparatus for differential charged-particle mobility analysis
according to an embodiment of the present invention.
[0039]     FIGS. 9A and 9B illustrate embodiments of conjunctive unions for use with the
apparatus of FIG. 8.
                       DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0040]     "VLDL, IDL, LDL, and HDL" refer to classifications of lipoproteins as shown in Table
1. It is understood that the values used in Table 1 for sizes are determined by gel electrophoresis
methods, as known in the art. With the differential charged-particle mobility analysis methods
disclosed here, it has been observed that all measurements of lipoprotein diameter obtained with
differential charged-particle mobility analysis are shifted to smaller diameters compared to the
data obtained with gel electrophoresis. Without wishing to be bound by any theory, it is believed
that this difference is due to calibration of the gels. The shift appears to be linearly related and
approximated by the following formula:
                                                    10

                                   0.86*gel diameter=IM diameter
[0041]    Table 1 describes the standard classes and subclass designations assigned to various
lipoprotein fractions using traditional gel electrophoresis measurements: very low density
lipoproteins (VLDLs) with subclasses VLDL I and II; intermediate density lipoproteins (IDLs)
with subclasses IDL I and II,; low density lipoproteins (LDLs) with subclasses I, Ila, Ilb, Ila,
IlIb, IVa and IVb; and high density lipoproteins (HDLs), which typically includes several
subclasses, such as HDL Ila, Ilb, Ila, IIb, and IIc.
             Table 1. Major Lipoprotein Class, Subclass, Density and Particle Size
           Class Acronym                       Name                   Particle Diameter
              Subclass                    Density (g/mL)
         VLDL                   Very Low Density Lipoprotein
                I                       <1.006                                 330-370
                II                      1.006-1.010                            300-330
         IDL                    Intermediate Density Lipoprotein
                I                       1.006-1.022                            285-300
                II                      1.013-1.019                            272-285
         LDL                    Low Density Lipoprotein
                I                       1.019-1.023                            272-285
                Ila                     1.023-1.028                            265-272
                Ilb                     1.028-1.034                            256-265
                Ila                     1.034-1.041                            247-256
                IlIb                    1.041-1.044                            242-247
                IVa                     1.044-1.051                            233-242
                IVb                     1.051-1.063                            220-233
         HDL                    High Density Lipoprotein
                Ila                     1.063-1.100                            98-130
                Ilb                     1.100-1.125                            88-98
                Ila                     1.125-1.147                            82-88
                IlIb                    1.147-1.154                            77-82
                IlIc                    1.154-1.203                            72-77
[0042]    Without wishing to be bound by any theory, it is believed that the observed differences
between differential charged-particle mobility analysis diameters and gel electrophoresis
diameters may also be due to distortion of lipoproteins interacting with the gel matrix under the
influence of the intrinsic impressed electric field of the electrophoresis gel. The size difference
may also be due to historical data used to convert particle density (obtained from analytic
ultracentrifuge separations) to particle size obtained from electron microscopy.
                                                   11

[0043]     As used herein, "chylomicrons" means biological particles of size 70-120 nm, with
corresponding densities of less than 1.006 g/mL. Chylomicrons have not been found to have any
clinical significance in the prediction of heart disease, for example CHD.
[0044]     "Apo A" as known in the art is a protein component of HDL. "Apo B" is a protein
component of LDL, IDL, Lp(a), and VLDL, and indeed is the primary apolipoprotein of lower
density lipoproteins, having human genetic locus 2p24-p23, as known in the art.
[0045]     As used herein, "albumin" refers to ubiquitous proteins constituting approximately 60%
of plasma, having density of about 1.35 g/mL, as known in the art.
[0046]     "Lp(a)," and "lipoprotein (a)" refer to a type of lipoprotein found in serum having a
molecular composition distinct from IDL and LDL, which is found in complex with
apolipoprotein a [apo(a)]. Lp(a) has a particle size that overlaps with LDL and IDL and
therefore can interfere with particle size analysis when Lp(a) particles are present in the sample.
Although some patients have naturally occurring low Lp(a) concentrations, it is believed to be
good practice to remove the Lp(a) prior to LDL size measurements to preclude otherwise
inaccurate measurements for those patients having significant Lp(a) concentrations. In this
manner, potential Lp(a) size interference problems can be avoided.
[0047]     The present invention contemplates apparatus and methods for use in differential
charged-particle mobility, and preparation of samples for differential charged-particle mobility.
Differential charged-particle mobility utilizes the principle that particles of a given size and
charge state behave in a predictable manner when carried in a laminar-air flow passed through an
electric field. Accordingly, differential charged-particle mobility analysis is a technique to
determine the size of a charged particle undergoing analysis when the charged particle is exposed
to an electric field.
[0048]     Electrical mobility is a physical property of an ion and is related to the velocity an ion
acquires when it is subjected to an electrical field. Electrical mobility, Z, is defined as
                                              V
                                          Z= -                               (1)
                                              E
                                                   12

where V=terminal velocity and E=electrical field causing particle motion. Particle diameter can
be obtained from
                                          neC
                                       Z= q"                                 (2)
where n=number of charges on the particle (in this case a single charge), e=1.6.x.10- 19
coulombs/charge, Ce=particle size dependent slip correction factor, q=gas viscosity, and
d=particle diameter. Accordingly, solving for d, provides the following relationship:
                                   d   neC E
                                        3rq V
[0049]    Thus, an explicit relationship for particle diameter as a function of known parameters
results. By setting the parameters to different values, different particle diameters of the charged
particles may be selected as further described below and known in the art. In preferred methods
of differential charged-particle mobility analysis, the electric field strength E acting upon the
charged particle is varied during analysis.
[0050]    In differential charged-particle mobility analysis, particles (e.g., lipoproteins and the
like) are carried through the system using a series of laminar airflows. The lipoproteins in a
volatile solution are introduced to an electrospray chamber containing approximately 5% CO 2
wherein the lipoproteins desolvate. In the electrospray chamber the desolvated, charged
lipoproteins are neutralized by ionized air, introduced for example without limitation by an alpha
particle emitter in the chamber. Based on Fuch's formula, a predictable proportion of particles
emerge from the chamber carrying a single charge and are transported from the chamber to the
Differential Mobility Analyzer (DMA). For details on Fuch's formula, reference is made to
Fuchs, N.A.: The Mechanics of Aerosols, Macmillan, 1964. "Differential Mobility Analyzer,"
"DMA" and like terms refer to devices for classifying charged particles on the basis of ion
electrical mobility, as known in the art and described herein. In differential charged-particle
mobility analysis, when particles have a known uniform charge, the size of the particles
classified may be determined from the mobility thereof. In the DMA the particles enter at the
top outer surface of the chamber and are carried in a fast flowing laminar-air flow, (i.e., "the
sheath flow"). The sheath flow is filtered (to remove particles) air that constantly recirculates
                                                   13

through the DMA at a constant velocity of 20 L/min. As the particles pass through the DMA
(carried in the sheath flow) the electric potential across the chamber is ramped up at a known
rate. As the electrical potential changes, particles of different diameter are collected via a slit at
the bottom inner surface of the chamber. Particles follow a non-linear path through the DMA
depending on their charge and diameter. At any given electrical potential, particles of known
size will follow a path that will allow them to pass through the collecting slit. Particles passing
through the collecting slit are picked up by another, separate laminar-flow air stream and are
carried to a particle counter. The particle counter enlarges the particles by condensation to a size
that can be detected and counted for example by a laser detection system. Knowing the electrical
potential being applied to the DMA when the particle was collected permits the accurate
determination of the particle diameter and the number of particles present at that size. This data
is collected and stored in bins as a function of time for different particle size. In this way the
number of particles of any given size range can be determined and converted to a concentration
of particles based on the time required to collect the data, the flow rate of sample being
introduced into the electrospray device, and the number of charged particles at that size.
[0051]     In methods of the present invention contemplating isolation and/or purification of
lipoproteins, initial sample collection and preparation may be conducted by methods well known
in the art. Typically, a 2 to 5 ml fasting blood specimen is initially taken. Chylomicrons are not
typically present in subjects who have been fasting for a period of at least 12 hours; thus, overlap
of VLDL sizes and chylomicron sizes is eliminated by fasting. The specimen is then initially
spun in a centrifuge (e.g., clinical centrifuge) preferably for approximately 10 minutes at
approximately 2000 xG, which centrifugation is sufficient to remove the cellular components
from the specimen. During this process, the more dense cellular components stratify at the
bottom of the sample. A remaining less dense plasma specimen containing lipoproteins on top is
then drawn off using methods well known in the art, e.g., aspiration.
[0052]     Historically, in preparation for centrifugation, a plasma specimen could be density
adjusted to a specific density using high purity solutions or solids of inorganic salts, e.g., sodium
chloride (NaCl), sodium bromide (NaBr) and the like. In some previous protocols, the specific
density would be chosen to be greater than or equal to the highest density of the lipoprotein
material to be analyzed, so that the lipoprotein material would float when density stratified.
                                                    14

"Density stratified" and like terms refer to the layering of components in a solution subjected to
centrifugation. These densities are tabulated in Table 1. The density-adjusted sample could then
be ultracentrifuged for example for approximately 18 hours at 100,000 xG to separate the non
lipoprotein proteins from the lipoproteins. Non-lipoprotein proteins, particularly albumin, could
be removed from the plasma specimen, preferably by ultracentrifugation. The lipoproteins
would float to the top of the sample during ultracentrifugation. Accordingly, by sequentially
centrifuging from lowest density to highest density of the density adjustment, the various classes
and subclasses of lipoproteins could be sequentially extracted. Typically, a dialysis step would
be required following extraction of a centrifuged sample to remove salts introduced for
adjustment of density, which dialysis step would typically require 4-12 hrs under conditions well
known in the art.
[0053]     Conditions for centrifugation for lipoprotein-containing samples described herein are
well known in the art of biochemical separation. For example without limitation, samples are
typically centrifuged at 10 C for 1-4 hrs at 223,000 xG. In some embodiments, centrifugation
employs centrifugal force of 50,000-100,000, 100,000-120,000, 120,000-150,000, 150,000
200,000, 200,000-230,000, 230,000-250,000 xG, or even higher force. In some embodiments,
the time of centrifugation is 1, 2, 2.2, 2.4, 2.6, 2.8, 3.0, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 hr, or even longer. Prior to analysis by differential
charged-particle mobility, an aliquot of the lipid fraction is removed (e.g., 10-200 tL) from the
top of the centrifuge tube and diluted (e.g., 1:800) in 25 mM ammonium acetate (AA), 0.5 mM
ammonium hydroxide, pH 7.4. Advantageously, in some embodiments described herein, a
dialysis step is not necessary in conjunction with methods of the invention, resulting in less time
required for analysis.
[0054]     In embodiments of the invention which contemplate lipoproteins, the lipoproteins are
selected from the group consisting of HDL, LDL, IDL, Lp(a), and VLDL. In some
embodiments, the lipoproteins are HDL.
[0055]     In some embodiments of aspects provided herein which contemplate lipoproteins, the
lipoproteins may derive from a plasma specimen, obtained by methods well known in the art or
as described herein. The terms "biological specimen," "biological sample" and like terms refer
                                                    15

to explanted, withdrawn or otherwise collected biological tissue or fluid including, for example
without limitation, whole blood, serum and plasma. The term "plasma" in the context of blood
refers to the fluid obtained upon separating whole blood into solid and liquid components. The
term "serum" in the context of blood refers to the fluid obtained upon separating whole blood
into solid and liquid components after it has been allowed to clot. In some embodiments of any
of the aspects of the present invention, the biological specimen is of human origin. In some
embodiments of any of aspects provided herein, the biological specimen is serum. In some
embodiments of any of the aspects provided herein, the biological specimen is plasma.
[0056]     In some embodiments of the invention which contemplate centrifugation, the
centrifugation does not reach equilibrium. "Centrifugation equilibrium" and like terms refers to
centrifugation conducted for sufficient time and at sufficient centrifugal force such that the
components of the solution being centrifuged have reached neutral density buoyancy, as well
known in the art. Surprisingly, it has been found that foreshortened centrifugation protocols, as
described herein wherein centrifugal equilibrium is not reached, can nonetheless provide
significant purification of lipoproteins.
[0057]     In some embodiments of the invention which contemplate centrifugation of sample
containing lipoproteins and non-lipoprotein components, purified lipoprotein is collected from
the top portion of the centrifuge tube following centrifugation. "Top portion of the centrifuge
tube" and like terms refer to the liquid in the upper portion of a centrifuge tube when viewed
outside of the centrifuge rotor which may, but does not necessarily, include liquid at the very top.
[0058]     Further any of the methods of the present invention directed to purifying lipoproteins, it
has been surprisingly found that reduction of the density of the solution to a value less or equal to
about 1.21 g/mL while centrifuging to less than equilibrium actually results in improved
recovery, hence purification, of LDL and HDL.
[0059]     Lipoprotein density can be determined directly by a variety of physical biochemical
methods well known in the art, including without limitation equilibrium density
ultracentrifugation and analytic ultracentrifugation. Lipoprotein density may also be determined
indirectly based on particle size and a known relationship between particle size and density.
                                                  16

Lipoprotein size may be determined by a variety of biochemical methods well known in the art
including, without limitation, methods described herein.
[0060]    Ion mobility, also known as ion electrical mobility or charged-particle mobility,
analysis offers an advantage over the other methods described herein in that it not only measures
the particle size accurately based on physical principles but also directly counts the number of
particles present at each size, thereby offering a direct measurement of lipoprotein size and
concentration for each lipoprotein. Ion mobility analysis has been used routinely in analyzing
particles in aerosols, and analyzers suitable for ion mobility analysis have been adapted to
analyze large biological macromolecules. Ion mobility analysis is a very sensitive and accurate
methodology with, nonetheless, a drawback that ion mobility analysis measures all particles
introduced into the system. Accordingly, it is of prime importance to isolate and/or purify the
compounds of interest prior to analysis. Lipoproteins are candidates for this method because
lipoproteins can be isolated from other serum proteins based on density and other features
described herein.
[0061]    Exemplary differential charged-particle mobility results for lipoproteins from plasma
samples purified by centrifugation with varying densities of solution are shown in FIG. 1. In
these experiments, serum samples (25 uL) were overlaid on a cushion (200 uL) of four different
density salt (KBr) solutions. The densities of the solutions were 1.165, 1.170, 1.181, and 1.23
g/mL. Each sample was ultracentrifuged for a period of 3.7 hr at 223,000 xG. The top 100 uL
after the centrifugation was removed. Fractionated lipoprotein samples from each density were
dialyzed overnight against ammonium acetate (25 mM), ammonium hydroxide (0.5 mM), pH
7.4. Following dialysis each sample was analyzed by differential charged-particle mobility with
the resulting profiles shown in FIG. 1. A reduction is apparent in the lipoprotein profiles in the
HDL region seen at the lower densities compared to 1.23 g/mL. Without wishing to be bound by
any theory, this observation is believed due to more efficient removal of plasma proteins with
lower salt solutions.
[0062]    With further reference to FIG. 1, the abscissa is the particle size (i.e., diameter), and the
ordinate is an arbitrarily scaled mass. The area under the curves, in a particle mass versus
independent variable (such as size, density, mobility, etc.) distribution, is directly representative
                                                   17

of the lipoprotein particle mass. The measurement technique relies on counting individual
particles as a function of size (diameter). It is therefore possible to convert the number of
particles at a specific size into a mass value using the volume and density of the particles. The
density of lipoproteins is a well-known function of particle size and is obtainable for example
from the literature. The mass values associated with the figure are simply scaled to indicate
relative values but can be converted to actual mass of lipoproteins in plasma using dilution
factors along with flow rates of sample and air passing through the ion mobility spectrometer.
Accordingly, in some embodiments adjusting the density of a lipoprotein-containing solution
prior to non-equilibrium centrifugation to a value lower than expected to separate the higher
density lipoproteins (e.g., HDL) actually results in separation of HDL and LDL.
Advantageously, the method of reducing the density of the lipoprotein-containing sample also
results in increased separation from albumin.
[0063]     In some embodiments of aspects provided herein contemplating centrifugation of a
sample containing lipoproteins and non-lipoprotein components, the first solution comprises
D2 0. In some embodiments, the density of the first solution is determined substantially by the
content of D 2 0, wherein the first solution has a density of 1.00 to about 1.10 g/mL. The density
of D2 0 is approximately 1.107 gm/mL at 25 C. Accordingly, in some embodiments of the
invention, the aqueous component includes 0-99 % D 2 0, or even higher. In some embodiments,
the amount of D 2 0 is in the range, for example without limitation, 10-99, 20-99, 30-99, 40-99,
50-99, 10-90, 20-90, 30-90, 40-90, 50-90 %, and the like. In some embodiments, the content of
D2 0 is a specific value, for example without limitation, about 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 30, 40 ,50, 60, 70,
80, 90, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, or even 100 % D2 0. In some embodiments, the first solution is
substantially D 20. The term "essentially D2 0" refers to D2 0 comprising the aqueous component
with no additionally added H 20. The terms "substantially D2 0" and like terms refer to D 2 0
content in a range greater than 50%, for example without limitation, 55%, 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%,
80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 99% or even 100% D 2 0.
[0064]     In some embodiments of this aspect, the lipoprotein-containing sample includes little if
any added salt. With reference to FIG. 2 (experimental conditions provided in Example 1),
which shows the result of a centrifugation procedure conducted using D 2 0 and no additional
salts for density adjustment, and a low-density salt solution without D 20, approximately
                                                    18

equivalent recovery of LDL and certain HDL fractions (e.g., HDL-IIb and HDL-IIa) was
observed after 2 hrs (D 2 0) and 3.7 hrs (low-density salt solution). With further reference to FIG.
2, the profiles for D 2 0 and low-density salt centrifugation procedures result in similar profiles,
with nonetheless increased albumin (peak at start of HDL 3 region) judged due to decreased
centrifugation time with the D 2 0 sample. Without wishing to be bound by any theory, it appears
that reduction of salt content with concomitant increase in density using D 2 0 results in shorter
time required for centrifugation and purification of lipoprotein from a lipoprotein-containing
sample.
[0065]    With reference to FIG. 3, under the conditions employed for FIG. 3 (experimental
conditions of Example 2) approximately equal recovery of Apo Al and Apo B after
centrifugation are observed, indicating that lower density obtained with D2 0 does not result in
selective recovery of larger less dense particles.
[0066]    In some embodiments of the method of the present invention directed to purifying
lipoproteins by the placement of a less dense solution above and adjacent to a lipoprotein
containing sample solution prior to centrifugation, a single density adjustment of the lipoprotein
containing solution is conducted using inorganic salts, preferably NaCl and/or NaBr. For
example, over this sample in a centrifuge tube can be layered a second solution having density
less than the density of the lipoprotein-containing sample solution. Alternatively, the
lipoprotein-containing sample solution can be introduced under the second solution in the
centrifuge tube. The lipoprotein-containing sample density adjustment can be selected within the
range of 1.00 to about 1.21 g/mL according to the densities in Table 1 to separate a class of
lipoproteins having equal or lesser density. The density of the second solution can be selected
within the range 1.00 g/mL up to just less than the density of the lipoprotein-containing sample
solution, preferably in the range 1.00 to about 1.15 g/mL, more preferably 1.00 g/mL. In this
manner, the HDL, IDL, LDL, Lp(a) and VLDL lipoproteins having densities less than the
density of the lipoprotein-containing sample solution can be simultaneously extracted.
Surprisingly, it has been found that providing a lipoprotein-containing solution in a centrifuge
tube with a solution having lower density above and adjacent the lipoprotein-containing solution
results in enhanced recovery of lipoprotein employing centrifugal separation. In preferred
                                                   19

embodiments, lipoprotein containing fractions are withdrawn from the very top of the tube, at the
meniscus, downward to the appropriate desired volume.
[0067]     Further to these methods, it has been found that the time required for centrifugal
separation of a lipoprotein-containing sample is reduced in lower density samples when
compared to a corresponding period of time required for higher density samples. The terms
"corresponding period of time" and the like in the context of centrifugal separation refer to the
length of time of centrifugation required to achieve a specified level of separation, given
equivalent centrifugal force during the centrifugation. For example without limitation, it has
been found that at least 2 hrs centrifugation (at e.g., 230,000 xG) is required to remove sufficient
albumin from a typical lipoprotein-containing sample, with less centrifugation time resulting in
less removal of albumin. Without wishing to be bound by any theory, it appears that by lowering
the density of the sample, albumin, and indeed other non-lipoprotein plasma proteins, are more
readily stratified and thus separated from lipoprotein. Accordingly, a key factor in optimizing
purification of lipoprotein is shortening the time of centrifugation to maximize the loss of
albumin and other plasma proteins while retaining HDL.
[0068]     In some embodiments of aspects provided herein which contemplate centrifugation of
sample containing lipoproteins and non-lipoprotein components, the sample further comprises a
compound which can act as a precipitant for selected lipoprotein components therein, as known
in the art. "Precipitant" refers to a compound which may cause or promote precipitation of a
biomolecule upon addition to a solution of such biomolecule. A precipitant may require an
additional agent to afford precipitation. "Additional agent to afford precipitation" and like terms
refer to compounds which act with a precipitant and may be required to afford precipitation by
the precipitant. Exemplary precipitants include, without limitation, salts of charged inorganic
ions, preferably ammonium sulfate, antibodies, charged polymers (e.g., DS and the like)
optionally in the presence of ionic species (e.g., divalent cations), lectins, and the like. In some
embodiments, the precipitant is present albeit under conditions (e.g., pH, concentration, lack of
necessary additional agents, and the like) wherein lipoproteins are not precipitated. In some
embodiments, the precipitant is DS. In some embodiments, the precipitant is DS, and the
necessary additional agent is a divalent cation. In some embodiments, the lipoprotein-containing
sample comprises DS but lacks divalent cations. Without wishing to be bound by any theory, it
                                                  20

is believed that DS binds to particles which contain lipids in the presence of divalent cations, and
that DS binding may interfere with non-specific binding interactions with resulting enhancement
of recovery of certain lipoproteins. For example without limitation, it is observed that inclusion
of DS significantly improved recovery of LDL from some preparations described herein.
[0069]     In some embodiments of aspects provided herein which contemplate centrifugation of
sample containing lipoproteins and non-lipoprotein components, the sample further comprises an
albumin-binding compound under conditions suitable to allow formation of a complex
comprising albumin and albumin-binding compound. Representative albumin-binding
compounds include, without limitation, aromatic albumin-binding dyes. The aromatic albumin
binding dye may comprise a diazo dye; an alkali metal salt, alkaline earth metal salt, or amine
salt of said diazo dye; a sulfonic acid dye; a physiologically-acceptable alkali metal salt, alkaline
earth metal salt, or amine salt of said sulfonic acid dye; or mixtures thereof. Aromatic albumin
binding dyes particularly useful in the present invention include Reactive Blue 2, Evans Blue,
Trypan Blue, Bromcresol Green, Bromcresol Purple, Methyl Orange, Procion red HE 3B, and
the like. In certain embodiments, the albumin-binding compound is an analog of nicotinamide
adenine dinucleotide (NAD). Representative NAD analogs suitable for use as albumin-binding
compounds include, without limitation, RG 19, and Cibacrom Blue 3GA (CB 3GA).
[0070]     In embodiments of the method contemplating the use of albumin-binding compounds,
after mixture of the albumin-binding compound with a lipoprotein-containing sample, the sample
is centrifuged as described herein. In some embodiments, the albumin-binding compound is
conjugated with a chromatographic medium, which conjugate promotes facile removal of
albumin complexed with albumin-binding compound for example, without limitation, by
filtration. In some embodiments, the conjugated albumin-binding compound is observed to
stratify at the bottom of the centrifuge tube, thereby facilitating removal (e.g., by aspiration, etc.)
of the lipoprotein-containing fraction. In some embodiments wherein the albumin-binding
compound is conjugated with a chromatographic medium, the chromatographic medium may be
paramagnetic particles, dextran, agarose or Sephadex@, preferably dextran "Paramagnetic
particle" as known in the art refers to particles having a magnetite core coated with a ligand, for
example without limitation, streptavidin. The affinity of biotin for streptavidin (K,   =  10-l' M) is
one of the strongest and most stable interactions in biology. Thus, paramagnetic particles
                                                   21

combine convenient magnetic separation technology with the versatility and high affinity of the
interactions such as the biotin-streptavidin interaction. It is observed that dextran conjugated
albumin-binding compounds tend to remain soluble longer than other conjugate chromatographic
media described herein. Without wishing to be bound by any theory, it is believed that the
longer an albumin-binding compound can interact with albumin in a lipoprotein-containing
sample, the more albumin-containing complex will be formed, thereby increasing purity and
recovery of lipoprotein.
[0071]    In further embodiments of the method contemplating the use of albumin-binding
compounds, the albumin-binding compound is present during centrifugation at a concentration of
up to 50 mg/mL, or even higher, without significant change in the quantity and relative
proportion of the lipoproteins recovered from a plasma sample. For example, referring to FIG. 4,
differential charged-particle mobility analyses of a lipoprotein-containing sample in which
varying amounts of RG 19 were included prior to centrifugation show that inclusion of RG 19
conjugated with dextran (RGD) results in recovery of lipoprotein with little, if any, effect on the
distribution of lipoproteins; compare FIG. 1 with FIG. 4. With reference to Example 3 and FIG.
4, while the differential charged-particle mobility profiles of HDL and LDL are similar, there is a
decrease in the size of the peak (albumin) at the onset of the HDL 3 peak with increasing RGD
concentration. Furthermore, the height of the peak at the higher concentrations is similar to that
seen in preparations from lower density salt and 3.7 hr spins. In other embodiments, the
concentration of albumin-binding compound is for example, without limitation, 1, 2, 5, 10, 15,
20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45 or even 50 mg/mL.
[0072]    In certain embodiments, the invention provides for the use of an albumin-binding
compound in combination with DS. Referring to FIG. 5, use of RGD, optionally DS, and
optionally ammonium acetate (AA), resulted in modulation of the recovery of LDL and HDL
fractions as judged by differential charged-particle mobility analysis. With reference to Example
4 and FIG. 5, there are similarities in the HDL region of the profiles shown in FIG. 5 with
increased recovery of HDL when DS is present in the extraction. Additionally, low albumin
peak height is observed. It is believed that the increased peak in one preparation in HDL 2a
(FIG. 5) is not typical of the reproducibility. Also of significance is the increased recovery of
                                                  22

LDL. Without wishing to be bound by any theory, results herein suggest that DS present in the
extraction and diluent affords the best recovery and reproducibility.
[0073]     In certain embodiments, purified lipoprotein-containing sample obtained by methods of
the invention are further diluted prior to differential charged-particle mobility analysis.
Referring to FIG. 6 and Example 5, the effect of presence or absence of DS (+/- 5 ug/mL) in a
1:200 dilution step with 25 mM ammonium acetate prior to differential charged-particle mobility
analysis was assessed. As shown in FIG. 6, there is a significant increase in the LDL peak height
in the presence of DS, whereas HDL peak profile are relatively unaffected.
[0074]     In certain aspects and embodiments, the invention contemplates methods employing an
albumin-binding compound conjugated with chromatographic media in combination with DS,
and further in combination with a D2 0 solution under and adjacent a lipoprotein-containing
sample in a centrifuge tube. A typical procedure employing this protocol is provided in Example
6.
[0075]     In some embodiments of aspects provided herein which contemplate centrifugation of
sample containing lipoproteins and non-lipoprotein components, the sample further comprises a
non-lipoprotein capture ligand capable of binding non-lipoprotein component to form a non
lipoprotein/non-lipoprotein capture ligand complex, further wherein the centrifugation causes the
non-lipoprotein/non-lipoprotein capture ligand complex to be separated from the lipoprotein
components. "Non-lipoprotein capture ligand" and like terms refer to compounds which bind
plasma components which are not lipoproteins. Exemplary non-lipoprotein capture ligands
include, without limitation, antibodies and aptamers as understood in the art. For example
without limitation, separation of antibody (i.e., as non-lipoprotein capture ligand) from antigen
(i.e., non-lipoprotein) can be realized with a variety of methods including modulation of
temperature, pH, salt concentration and the like. For further example without limitation,
separation of aptamer (i.e., as non-lipoprotein capture ligand) from aptamer target (i.e., non
lipoprotein) can be realized with a variety of methods including modulation of temperature, pH,
salt concentration, DNase or RNase and the like.
[0076]     In some embodiments of aspects provided herein which contemplate centrifugation of
sample containing lipoproteins and non-lipoprotein components, the sample further comprises a
                                                   23

lipoprotein-capture ligand capable of binding lipoprotein component to form a
lipoprotein/lipoprotein-capture ligand complex, further wherein the centrifugation causes the
lipoprotein/lipoprotein-capture ligand complex to be separated from the non-lipoprotein
components. "Lipoprotein-capture ligand" and like terms refer to compounds which bind
lipoproteins. Exemplary lipoprotein-capture ligands include, without limitation, antibodies and
aptamers as understood in the art. In preferred embodiments, the lipoprotein-capture ligand is an
antibody.
[0077]    In some embodiments of aspects provided herein which do not contemplate
centrifugation of sample containing lipoproteins and non-lipoprotein components, the method
contemplates a lipoprotein-capture ligand capable of binding lipoprotein component to form a
lipoprotein/lipoprotein-capture ligand complex.
[0078]    The term "aptamer" refers to macromolecules composed of nucleic acid, such as RNA
or DNA, that bind tightly to a specific molecular target. The terms "bind," "binding" and the
like refer to an interaction or complexation resulting in a complex sufficiently stable so as to
permit separation. In some embodiments, the aptamer specifically bind Apo Al, Apo B, or
Apo(a). Methods for the production and screening of aptamers useful for the present invention
are well known in the art; see e.g., Griffin et al., United Stated Patent No. 5,756,291,
incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.
[0079]    As practiced in the art, the method of selection (i.e., training) of aptamer requires a pool
of single stranded random DNA oligomers comprising both random sequences and flanking
regions of known sequence to serve as primer binding sites for subsequent polymerase chain
reaction (PCR) amplification. Such DNA oligomers are generated using conventional synthetic
methods well known in the art. As an initial and optional step, PCR amplification is conducted
by conventional methods, and the amplified pool is left as duplex DNA, or used as single
stranded DNA after strand separation. Optionally, transcription into RNA can be conducted.
The term "oligomer pool" in this context refers to such single stranded or duplex DNA, or RNA
transcribed therefrom. The term "refined oligomer pool" refers to an oligomer pool which has
been subjected to at least one round of selection as described herein.
                                                   24

[0080]     Further the aforementioned aptamer training, a "selection" step is conducted employing
a column or other support matrix (i.e., target-coupled support) having target molecule attached
thereon. Attachment, well known in the art, may be by covalent or non-covalent means. The
oligomer pool, or refined oligomer pool, and target-coupled support are incubated in order to
permit formation of oligonucleotide-target complex, and the uncomplexed fraction of the
oligomer pool or refined oligomer pool is removed from the support environment by, for
example, washing by methods well known in the art. Subsequent removal of oligonucleotide by
methods well known in the art results in a refined oligomer pool fraction having enhanced
specificity for target relative to a predecessor oligomer pool or refined oligomer pool.
[0081]     Alternatively, the aforementioned aptamer training can employ a "reverse selection"
step wherein aptamer is selected to bind to other constituents of the biological sample. In this
case, a column or other support matrix is employed (i.e., constituent-coupled support) having
other constituents of the biological sample attached thereon. The oligomer pool, or refined
oligomer pool, and constituent-coupled support are incubated in order to permit formation of
oligonucleotide-constituent complex, and the uncomplexed fraction of the oligomer pool or
refined oligomer pool is removed from the support environment by, for example, washing by
methods well known in the art. Subsequent removal of oligonucleotide by methods well known
in the art results in a refined oligomer pool fraction having enhanced specificity for other
constituents of the biological sample relative to a predecessor oligomer pool or refined oligomer
pool. Examples of other constituents of the biological sample used in the reverse selection step
include, without limitation, immunoglobulins and albumins.
[0082]     In a typical production training scheme, oligonucleotide recovered after complexation
with target or other constituent of the biological sample is subjected to PCR amplification. The
selection/amplification steps are then repeated, typically three to six times, in order to provide
refined oligomer pools with enhanced binding and specificity to target or other constituent of the
biological sample. Amplified sequences so obtained can be cloned and sequenced. Optionally,
when a plurality of individual aptamer sequence specific for a target having been obtained and
sequenced, pairwise and multiple alignment examination, well known in the art, can result in the
elucidation of "consensus sequences" wherein a nucleotide sequence or region of optionally
contiguous nucleotides are identified, the presence of which correlates with aptamer binding to
                                                   25

target. When a consensus sequence is identified, oligonucleotides that contain the consensus
sequence may be made by conventional synthetic or recombinant means.
[0083]    The term "antibody" refers to an immunoglobulin which binds antigen (e.g., lipoprotein
or other component of the sample) with high affinity and high specificity. In this context "high
affinity" refers to a dissociation constant of, for example without limitation, 1 tM, 100 nM, 10
nM, 1 nM, 100 pM, or even more affine, characterizing the binding reaction of antibody with
antigen to which the antibody has been raised. The term "raised" refers to the production of high
affinity antibody by methods long known in the art. Further in this context, the term "high
specificity" refers to a preference of binding of a target antigen by a test antibody relative to non
target antigen characterized by a ratio of dissociation constants of, for example without
limitation, 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100, 200, 500, 1000, 10000, or more, in favor of binding of the
target antigen to which the test antibody has been raised.
[0084]    Methods of derivatization of antibodies and aptamers contemplated by the present
invention include, for example without limitation, biotinylation. In some embodiments, the
antibody or aptamer is biotinylated such that subsequent isolation on an avidin conjugated
matrix, for example without limitation, an avidin chromatography column, affords facile
separation by methods well known in the art of biochemical purification. In some embodiments,
the biotinylated antibody or aptamer in complex with a lipoprotein is further subjected to
streptavidin-conjugated magnetic beads. The ternary lipoprotein-biotinylated affinity reagent
streptavidin conjugated magnetic bead complex is then isolated by immunomagnetic methods
well known in the art.
[0085]    In some embodiments of this aspect, the lipoprotein-capture ligand is linked to a solid
support by use of appropriate linkers well known in the art. Exemplary solid supports include,
without limitation, paramagnetic particles, beads, gel matrix material (e.g., agarose, Sephadex@),
and the like.
[0086]    Further to this aspect, in some embodiments the present invention provides methods for
removing Lp(a) from the sample prior to centrifugation, which method includes the following
steps: (a) forming a precipitate of Lp(a) by admixing the sample with a precipitant for Apo B
                                                   26

containing lipoproteins under conditions sufficient to cause precipitation of Lp(a); and (b)
isolating the Lp(a) containing precipitate from the first solution. "Precipitant for Apo B
containing lipoproteins" and like terms refer to compounds known to precipitate Apo B, as well
known in the art.
[0087]     In some embodiments of the present invention contemplating purification of
lipoproteins collected by centrifugation methods provided herein, the present invention provides
methods for removing Lp(a) from collected lipoproteins, which methods include the following
steps: (a) forming a precipitate of Lp(a) by admixing the collected lipoproteins with a precipitant
for Apo B-containing lipoproteins under conditions sufficient to cause precipitation of Lp(a); and
(b) isolating the Lp(a) containing precipitate from the collected lipoproteins.
[0088]     Further to methods provided herein for removing Lp(a) from a solution containing
lipoprotein, an exemplary precipitant for Apo B is, without limitation, DS in the presence of
divalent cation. In some embodiments, the divalent cation is Mg . It has been observed that
inclusion of DS results in a significantly enhanced recovery of LDL with little effect on recovery
of HDL. DS can be mixed with lipoprotein-containing sample at a concentration in the range of
about 0.1 to 50 mg/mL. In some embodiments, the DS concentration is about 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1.0,
1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 4.0, 5.0, 10.0, 15.0, 20.0, 25.0, 30.0, 40.0 or even 50.0 mg/mL.
[0089]     In further embodiments, the invention provides methods for obtaining purified Lp(a),
which methods include the following steps: (a) solubilizing the Lp(a) containing precipitate
obtained according to any of the methods provided herein therefor; (b) admixing the solubilized
Lp(a) with a solid-support reagent containing a lectin attached to a solid support under conditions
suitable to allow formation of a Lp(a)-lectin complex; (c) isolating the Lp(a)-lectin complex;
and (d) releasing the Lp(a) from the Lp(a)-lectin complex, thereby providing purified
lipoproteins suitable for example for differential charged-particle mobility analysis.
[0090]     Further to this method, the lectin may be selected from the group consisting of wheat
germ agglutinin (WGA), lima bean agglutinin (LGA), phytohemaglutinin (PHA), and horseshoe
crab lectin (HCL). In some embodiments, the lectin is WGA, In some embodiments, the solid
support includes agarose. Methods of manipulation of such lectins, including reacting with
                                                    27

Lp(a) to form a complex, isolating such a complex, and attaching lectin to a solid support, are
well known in the art.
[0091]    Further to this method, in some embodiments the releasing step includes washing the
Lp(a)-lectin complex with a competitive ligand for the lectin. In some embodiments, the
competitive ligand is N-acetylglucosamine (NAG). In some embodiments, the releasing step
includes disulfide reduction, using a dilsufide reducing agent as known in the art, to reduce the
disulfide linking apo (a) and Apo B, thereby releasing LDL.
[0092]    In some embodiments of the present invention contemplating further purification of
lipoproteins collected by centrifugation methods provided herein, the present invention provides
methods for removing Lp(a) from collected lipoproteins, which methods include the following
steps: (a) solubilizing the Lp(a) containing precipitate obtained according to any of the methods
provided herein therefor; (b) admixing the solubilized Lp(a) with gamma globulins and proline;
(c) precipitating the admixture by addition of a precipitant; and (d) recovering Lp(a) from the
precipitate, thereby providing purified lipoproteins suitable for differential charged-particle
mobility analysis. As known in the art, "gamma globulin" refers to the y-class of
immunoglobulins. Exemplary precipitants include, without limitation, salts of highly charged
inorganic ions, preferably ammonium sulfate. The concentration of gamma globulins useful for
the present embodiment can be in the range of 0.01-0.1 ug/mL, 0.1-1.0 ug/mL, 1.0-2.0- ug/mL,
2.0-5.0 ug/mL, 5.0-10.0 ug/mL, 10.0-100 ug/mL, 100-1000 ug/mL, or even higher. The
concentration of proline can be in the range of 10 uM-100 uM, 100-100- uM, 1-2 mM, 2-5 mM,
5-10 mM, or even higher.
[0093]    Further to methods provided herein contemplating collected lipoprotein, in some
embodiments the lipoprotein-containing solution is in contact with an inert centrifugation matrix.
"Inert centrifugation matrix" and like terms in the context of centrifugal purification methods of
the present invention refer to materials which do not chemically react with lipoproteins but
which nonetheless enhance purification. Without wishing to be bound by any theory, it is
believed that the inert centrifugation matrix acts to stabilize the contents of a centrifugation tube
after centrifugation such that, for example, artifacts introduced during deceleration and/or
pipetting of lipoprotein or other fraction from the tube are minimized. Exemplary inert
                                                  28

centrifugation matrices include, without limitation, gel slurries or inert beads. In some
embodiments, the gel slurry is a Sephadex@ gel matrix. In some embodiments, the inert
centrifugation matrix includes inert beads. Exemplary inert beads include, without limitation,
glass beads, polystyrene beads, and the like, adapted to sink to the bottom of the first solution in
a centrifuge tube. Inert beads can be of any convenient size, for example without limitation,
about 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1.0, 1.1, 1.2 1.3, 1.4, 1.5, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, 2.0, 2.2, 2.4, 2.6, 2.8,
3.0, 3.3, 3.6, 3.9, 4.0 mm, or even smaller or larger.
[0094]    In some embodiments of the aspect of the present invention directed to methods for
purifying lipoproteins for differential charged-particle mobility analysis by the use of
polyanionic compounds and one or more divalent cations, the polyanionic compound is selected
from the group consisting of DS, amylopectin and polyvinyl sulfate, preferably DS. In some
embodiments, the divalent cation is selected from the group consisting of Mg              and Ca,
preferably Mg.
[0095]    In some embodiments, the present invention provides methods for purifying
lipoproteins for differential charged-particle mobility analysis, which methods do not include
centrifugation. In some embodiments, a solution comprising lipoproteins and non-lipoproteins is
admixed with one or more lipoprotein-capture ligands capable of binding lipoproteins to form a
lipoprotein/lipoprotein-capture ligand complex. In some embodiments, after formation of a
lipoprotein/lipoprotein-capture ligand complex, the complex so formed is isolated by methods
known in the art including, without limitation, immunomagnetic methods. In some
embodiments, after isolation of a lipoprotein/lipoprotein-capture ligand complex, the lipoprotein
is released from the lipoprotein/lipoprotein-capture ligand complex by methods known in the art
and described herein.
[0096]    In another aspect, the invention provides methods for analyzing the size distribution of
lipoproteins by differential charged-particle mobility analysis. In some embodiments, one or
more lipoproteins are obtained from a body fluid such as a plasma specimen from an individual.
In some embodiments, the one ore more lipoproteins are selected from the group consisting of
HDL, LDL, Lp(a), IDL and VLDL. In some embodiments, the method further includes the step
of using the determined lipoprotein size distribution to conduct an assessment of the individual,
                                                     29

the assessment selected from the group consisting of lipid-related health risk, cardiovascular
condition, risk of cardiovascular disease, and responsiveness to a therapeutic intervention.
[0097]    "Assessment" in the context of lipid-related health risk, cardiovascular condition, and
risk of cardiovascular disease, refers to a statistical correlation of the resulting lipoprotein size
distribution with population mortality and risk factors, as well known in the art. Assessment in
the context of responsiveness to a therapeutic intervention refers to comparison of the lipoprotein
size distribution before and after a therapeutic intervention is conducted. Exemplary therapeutic
interventions include, without limitation, the administration of drugs to an individual for the
purpose of lowering serum cholesterol, lowering LDL, IDL, and VLDL, Lp(a) and/or raising
HDL, as known in the art.
[0098]    In some embodiments, the results of lipoprotein analyses are reported in an analysis
report. "Analysis report" refers in the context of lipoprotein and other lipid analyses
contemplated by the invention to a report provided, for example to a clinician, other health care
provider, epidemiologist, and the like, which report includes the results of analysis of a
biological specimen, for example a plasma specimen, from an individual. Analysis reports can
be presented in printed or electronic form, or in any form convenient for analysis, review and/or
archiving of the data therein, as known in the art. An analysis report may include identifying
information about the individual subject of the report, including without limitation name,
address, gender, identification information (e.g., social security number, insurance numbers), and
the like. An analysis report may include biochemical characterization of the lipids in the sample,
for example without limitation triglycerides, total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, and/or HDL
cholesterol, and the like, as known in the art and/or described herein. An analysis report may
further include characterization of lipoproteins, and references ranges therefore, conducted on
samples prepared by the methods provided herein. The term "reference range" and like terms
refer to concentrations of components of biological samples known in the art to reflect typical
normal observed ranges in a population of individuals. Exemplary characterization of
lipoproteins in an analysis report may include the concentrations of non-HDL lipoproteins and
Lp(a) determined by differential charged-particle mobility. Further exemplary characterization
of lipoproteins, determined for example by differential charged-particle mobility analyses
conducted on samples prepared by methods of the invention, include the concentration and
                                                    30

reference range for VLDL, IDL, Lp(a), LDL and HDL, and subclasses thereof. An analysis
report may further include lipoprotein size distribution, obtaining for example by differential
charged-particle mobility analysis, of a sample prepared by methods of the invention. Entries
included in an exemplary analysis report are provided in Example 7.
                                            EXAMPLES
     Example 1 - Comparison of lipoprotein purification using D 2 0 and low-salt solution
[0099]    A serum sample (25 uL) was processed either using a low-density salt solution (1.151
g/mL) (i.e., "low-density salt sample") or D 2 0 (200 uL each). Samples were centrifuged at
223,000 xG for 3.7 hr (low-density salt sample) or 2 hr (D 2 0). Following removal of the top 100
uL after centrifugation, the low-density salt sample was dialyzed against ammonium acetate
solution and diluted to 1:200 before differential charged-particle mobility analysis. The D 2 0
sample was diluted directly after centrifugation to 1:200 with ammonium acetate prior to
differential charged-particle mobility analysis. Results of differential charged-particle mobility
analysis are presented in FIG. 2.
             Example 2 - Effect of purification on Apo A, Apo B, and TC recovery.
[0100]    To assess whether HDL (Apo Al) was preferentially lost in procedures employing D 2 0,
three samples as shown in FIG. 3 (i.e., 749, 1043, 14: arbitrary and unique patient identification
numbers) were subjected to lipoprotein isolation employing D2 0 together with RGD/DS solution
(7.5/2.5 mg/mL, respectively) to remove albumin. Samples were each prepared in replicates of
six. The isolated individual top 100 uL were each analyzed for content of Apo Al (HDL), Apo
B (LDL, IDL, VLDL) and total cholesterol (TC). Plasma or serum apolipoproteins Al and B
were measured by standardized ELISA using commercially available monoclonal capture
antibodies (Biodesign International, Saco, MN) and anti-human goat polyclonal detection
antibodies, purified and biotinylated, (International Immunology Corp., Murrieta, CA) in a non
competitive sandwich-style immunoassay. Concentration was measured by addition of
streptavidin conjugated peroxidase followed by color development using ortho-phenyline
diamine. Lipoprotein calibrators were standardized using CDC #1883 serum reference material
(Center for Disease Control, Atlanta, GA) and pooled reference sera (Northwest Lipid Research
                                                  31

Clinic, Seattle, WA). Total cholesterol was measured using commercially available assay kit
reagents (Bayer Health Care, Tarrytown, NY) according to manufacturers instructions and
modified for analysis of 25gl serum or plasma plus 200gl cholesterol reagent per microtiter plate
well. Standards, controls, samples and reagent background were measured after color
development using a microtiter plate reader. The results (FIG. 3) show the mean recovery of
each sample compared to the total present in each serum. Without wishing to be bound by any
theory, the purification procedure did not result in preferential loss of HDL, as judged by
equivalent recovery of Apo Al and Apo B.
             Example 3 - Effect of varying RGD on lipoprotein fraction recovery.
[0101]    A serum sample was mixed with varying amounts of RGD (10, 15, 20, 25 mg/mL) and
incubated on ice for 15 min before being overlaid on a cushion of D 20. After centrifuging for
120 min at 223,000 xG, the top 100 uL was removed and diluted 1:200 with ammonium acetate
solution. Samples were then analyzed by differential charged-particle mobility analysis. Results
are shown in FIG. 4.
              Example 4 - Purification of lipoproteins employing RG 19, DS, AA
[0102]    With reference to FIG. 5, in order to assess the effect of DS on the removal of albumin
and recovery of lipoproteins in both the extraction/purification and diluent, a serum sample (5
uL) was extracted with 20 uL of 7.5 mg/mL RGD alone (legend "C/D" in FIG. 5) or 20 uL of a
combination of 7.5 mg/mL RGD and 2.5 mg/mL DS (legend "A/B" in FIG. 5). The DS
molecular weight used for both the extraction and diluent is 10K. After 15 min incubation on ice
each sample was centrifuged for 2 hr 15 min at 223,000 xG at 10 C. The top 100 uL was
removed and diluted 1:200 with either 25 mM ammonium acetate solution (legend "B/D" in FIG
5) or 25 mM ammonium acetate containing 5 ug/mL DS (legend "A/C" in FIG 5).
          Example 5 - Result of purification of lipoproteins employing DS in diluent
[0103]    With reference to FIG. 6, a lipoprotein-containing serum sample prepared by a 18 hr
density separation, using methods well known in the art, was employed after dialysis to assess
the effect of DS in the diluent on the recovery of LDL. An aliquot of the centrifuged serum
sample was diluted 1:200 with 25 mM ammonium acetate in the absence of DS and subjected to
                                                 32

differential charged-particle mobility analysis. Another aliquot was diluted 1:200 with 25 mM
ammonium acetate in the presence of 5 ug/mL DS. Duplicate runs of each sample are shown in
FIG. 6.
               Example 6 - Purification of lipoproteins employing RG 19, DS, D 2 0
[0104]     Lipoprotein-containing samples obtained from plasma were mixed briefly by vortexing.
Five uL of sample, or optionally control, were mixed with 20 uL of an albumin removal reagent
containing 7.5 mg/mL RGD (Sigma), 2.5 mg/mL DS (Sigma) and 0.5 mg/mL EDTA (Spectrum
Chemicals) and incubated on ice for 15 min. Following incubation the sample mixture was
overlaid on D 2 0 (Medical Isotopes) 200 uL in a Ti 42.2 ultracentrifuge tube (Beckmann). The
samples were then ultracentrifuged at 100 C for 135 min at 223,000 xG (42,000 rpm). Following
ultracentrifugation the lipid fraction (85 tL) was removed from the top of the centrifuge tube.
Prior to analysis by differential charged-particle mobility, the samples were diluted to a final
dilution of 1:800 in 25 mM ammonium acetate 0.5 mM ammonium hydroxide pH 7.4 for HDL
analysis. For LDL analysis samples were diluted 1:200 in the same diluent containing 5 ug/mL
DS. Final dilutions were made in deep well 96 well plates and placed in an autosampler with the
cool stack maintained at 6 0C, prior to differential charged-particle mobility analysis.
       Example 7 - Result of purification and analysis of lipoproteins in serum samples
[0105]     Serum was separated from whole blood collected via venipuncture. Following
separation the serum was divided into three portions, one aliquot analyzed for HDL,
triglycerides, and total cholesterol content using traditional methods well known in the art. LDL
was calculated from these results. In preferred embodiments, if triglycerides were greater than
400 mg/dL then LDL was measured directly. The second aliquot was analyzed for its Lp(a)
content using an immunoassay, well known in the art. Differential charged-particle mobility
analysis was employed for the third aliquot to fractionate the lipoproteins.
[0106]     In a typical production procedure, sample(s) together with controls, one sample known
to be LDL pattern A (control A) and one sample known to be pattern B (control B) as known in
the art, are placed on the Perkin Elmer JANUS multiprobe. 30 uL of controls and sample(s) are
transferred to a separate tube and mixed, and 120 uL of the RG19 dextran, DS, EDTA solution is
                                                   33

added. The tubes are then transferred to ice for a 15-minute incubation. Following the 15 min
incubation the tubes are returned to the multiprobe. In the meantime, centrifuge tubes have had
two 4mm beads added to them, and these are then placed on the multiprobe where 120 uL of
D2 0 is added to each centrifuge tube. Controls and sample(s) are then overlaid on the D 2 0 by
the multiprobe before being transferred to the ultracentrifuge rotor (Ti 42.2). Samples are then
spun for 135 min at 1OC at 223,000 xG (42,000 rpm). Following centrifugation, the centrifuge
tubes are removed carefully and placed on the multiprobe where the top 85 uL (+/- 5 uL) is
removed to a separate tube. Once all samples are collected the multiprobe makes two dilutions
for each control and sample. One dilution is a final dilution of 1:200 with ammonium acetate
solution containing 5 ug/mL DS; the second is a 1:800 dilution with just ammonium acetate
solution. The two dilutions are then run on the differential charged-particle mobility instrument.
Following analysis the particle numbers are converted to nmol/L using conversions well known
in the art. The data from the HDL run (1:800) and the larger lipoproteins (1:200) are combined
and reported together with the biochemical data from aliquots 1 and 2. The profile of the
lipoproteins is also reported as well as the total LDL particle concentration and the LDL peak
particle size, which is used to determine the LDL phenotype. An exemplary assessment report
resulting from combining these data is provided in Table 2 (numerical representation) and FIG. 7
(graphical representation of lipoprotein profile).
                        Table 2. Lipoprotein Fraction by Ion Mobility
Assay Component               In Range        Out of Range       Units      Reference Range
Lipid Panel
Cholesterol, Total                            328 (High)*        mg/dL      <200
LDL Cholesterol                               249 (High)         mg/dL      <130
HDL Cholesterol               62                                 mg/dL      >50
VLDL Cholesterol              17                                 mg/dL      <30
Triglycerides                 85                                 mg/dL      <150
Non-HDL Cholesterol                           266 (High)         mg/dL      <160
Lipoprotein (a)               25                                 nmol/L     <75
LDL ParticleProfile
LDL Particles, Total          886                                nmol/L     272-1181
LDL Particle size             228.1                              Ang        215.4-232.9
LDL Phenotype                 A                                  Type**     A
Lipoprotein Particles
LDL I large                                   226 (High)         nmol/L     51-186
                                                   34

LDL II large                  426                                nmol/L     91-574
LDL III small                  187                               nmol/L     82-442
LDL IV small                  47                                 nmol/L     33-129
HDL 2b large                   1425                              nmol/L     384-1616
HDL 2a intermediate                           5616 (High)        nmol/L     903-3779
HDL 3 small                                   9229 (High)        nmol/L     475-4244
IDL 1 large                                   39 (High)          nmol/L      10-38
IDL 2 small                                   66 (High)          nmol/L      11-48
VLDL large                                    1.9 (High)         nmol/L     0.2-1.8
VLDL intermediate                             6.4 (High)         nmol/L      1.0-5.7
VLDL small                    25.1                               nmol/L     5.8-26.6
* "High" and "Low" refer to above or below range, respectively.
** "Type" refer to phenotype as determined by particle size with cutoff approximately at LDL II
(215.4 A), as known in the art.
[0107]    To obtain a more accurate lipoprotein profile using differential charged-particle
mobility analysis as discussed above, one may adjust the results for any loss of lipoprotein
during handling (e.g. sample centrifugation, pipetting and dilutions) prior to the differential
charged-particle mobility apparatus. This may be achieved by adding one more types of labeled
lipoproteins to a sample as an internal standard. By following the label during processing, the
recovery of the labeled lipoprotein can be used to adjust upwards the concentration of the same
but unlabeled lipoprotein present in the original sample. For example, an aliquot of the
lipoprotein isolate after centrifugation is measured for fluorescent signal and compared with an
aliquot directly from the starting stock sample (not centrifuged). The difference in signal
represents the proportion of unknown sample recovered, and allows a more accurate calculation
of lipoprotein concentration in plasma or serum.
[0108]    The following method was used to conjugate a fluorescent molecule to HDL
subfractions. This method may be applied to other types of lipoproteins. HDL was isolated from
plasma by sequential flotation to obtain lipoproteins within density interval 1.063-1.20 g/mL.
The total HDL fraction was then dialyzed to salt background density 1.184 g/mL and centrifuged
for 28 hrs at 40,000 rpm, 10 C in a fixed angle 50.3 Beckman rotor. The 6 ml centrifuge tube
was then pipetted to obtain predominantly large, intermediate and small HDL subfractions, T[0
1], T[1-3] and T[3-6], respectively. The subfractions were then dialyzed against 100mM
NaHCO3, pH 8.5, 4'C overnight. Protein concentration was measured in each subfraction using
the Lowry method.
                                                   35

[0109]     HDL subfractions were then labeled with fluorescent probe AlexaFluor 488 (carboxylic
acid, succinimidyl ester 'mixed isomers' , Molecular Probes Cat # A-20000, Mol. Wt. 643.42,
Abs @494 nm/Em 517 nm) according to manufacturer's instructions. Briefly, HDL subfractions
were combined with AF4 88 at a suggested optimal ratio 10:1 (wt :wt) maintaining optimal
concentrations of HDL and AF488, >2mg/ml and 10mg/ml, respectively. The protocol and
quantities of the solutions used are listed below in Table 3.
                                    Table 3: Incubation Mixtures
                    Stk      Ligand             Stk      AF488                               Stop
                    Co                          Co                               Tot. Vol    Soln
                    mg/ml    gl        mg       mg/ml gl            mg           gl          pl
 HDL
  Subfr. T[0
  1]                3.59     560       2.01     10       20.104     0.2010       580         40
  T[1-3]            3.18     625        1.99    10       19.875     0.1988       645         40
  T[3-6]            6.39     785       5.02     10       50.162     0.5016       835         100
                                                Total    90.1405    0.901405
         1- Add HDL subfr to glass vial with mag-stir bar
         2-While stirring at rm. temp., add AF488 volume to ligand slowly.
         3-Incubate mixture for 1 hour w/ continuous stirring.
         4- Add Stop Soln (1.5 M Tris, pH 8.0). Incubate at rm temp 30 min.
         5- Dialyze labeled HDL Subfrs to 20mM Tris. 150mM NaCl, 0.27mM EDTA,
         pH8 [in cold box,protect from light]
            vs. 1 liter overnite, and 2 x IL dialysate volume changes.
[0110]     The AF488 labeled HDL subfractions were then tested for signal sensitivity at various
dilutions in buffer from 250 to >30000. The labeled HDL subfractions were also tested for
signal sensitivity when diluted in various plasma preparations before and after centrifugation for
isolation of lipoproteins.
[0111]     Additional dilution and sensitivity tests were performed after a second centrifugal
isolation of the labeled HDL subfractions at density <1.23g/mL to remove unconjugated
fluorescent label from the HDL:AF488 conjugates.
[0112]     The fluorescent probe fluorescein-5-EX, succinimidyl ester, obtained from Molecular
Probes (Cat # F-6130), was used to label HDL subfractions in the same manner as described
above for AF488. The above methods were also used to fluorescently label VLDL and LDL.
                                                    36

Additional tests were conducted to fluorescence label combined high molecular weight standards
(Pharmacia HMW Standard Mix) containing thyroglobulin, apoferritin, catalase, lactate
dehydrogenase, and albumin.
[0113]    In embodiments of aspects of the present invention contemplating analysis and/or
display of lipoprotein distributions, as exemplified without limitation by FIG. 1, FIG. 7 and the
like, the differential charged-particle mobility data, obtained with an ion mobility analyzer, can
be processed prior to presentation for clinical interpretation. Unless otherwise specified,
"differential charged-particle mobility data" and like terms in the context of raw data from a
differential charged-particle mobility analysis, or processed data for presentation for clinical
interpretation, refer to differential charged-particle mobility particle size distributions having an
independent variable correlated to the diameter of a particle, and an observed dependent variable
correlated with particle count. In some embodiments, the independent variable is voltage or the
corresponding electrical field generated by the voltage (see Eqn. 3). In some embodiments, the
independent variable is particle diameter. In some embodiments, the dependent variable is
particle count. In some embodiments, the dependent variable is the number of particles counted
during a specified time period, for example without limitation 0.001-0.01, 0.01-0.1, 0.1-1, 1-2 s
or even longer. In some embodiments, the specified time period is 0.1 s.
[0114]    "Processing of the differential charged-particle mobility data" and like terms refer to
manipulations of data, which manipulations, when taken in total, may provide graphical and/or
numeric results which accurately and reproducibly reflect the lipoprotein distribution, and/or
concentrations of individual lipoprotein classes and subclasses thereof, within a sample.
Exemplary manipulations useful in the processing of differential charged-particle mobility
particle size distribution data include, without limitation, multiplication by a constant,
convolution with a function, addition and/or subtraction of a constant numeric value or a
function including without limitation correction for the contribution of a contaminant, numeric
integration, smoothing, and other arithmetic manipulations known in the art. Accordingly,
processing of the differential charged-particle mobility particle size distribution data can be
employed for a variety of reasons, including without limitation, correction to accurately reflect
physiological concentrations of lipoproteins in a sample, scaling to correct for specific
instrument and process efficiencies, removal of data representing contributions of a contaminant,
                                                   37

and the like. "Specific instrument and process efficiencies" and like terms refer to the detection
and correction for changes in analyte (e.g., lipoprotein) concentration during processing and
analysis. Exemplary specific instrument efficiencies include an apparent dilution introduced
during electrospray wherein formation of the Taylor cone results in an apparent dilution of
lipoprotein in the resulting particle-laden gas stream. Efficiencies are measured by methods
employing instruments having quantified efficiencies well known to practitioners in the art.
"Contribution of a contaminant" and like terms in the context of differential charged-particle
mobility particle size distribution data refer to data, for example without limitation particle count
from an ion mobility instrument, resulting from non-lipoprotein species counted in the
differential charged-particle mobility instrument and included in the differential charged-particle
mobility particle size distribution data obtained therefrom. Exemplary non-lipoprotein species in
this context include, without limitation, any reagent disclosed herein and albumin in monomeric
and/or multimeric form.
[0115]    In some embodiments, the contribution to the differential charged-particle mobility
particle size distribution data due to a reagent described herein is subtracted from the differential
charged-particle mobility size distribution data during processing of the data. For example,
without wishing to be bound by any theory, it is believed that a contribution due to RGD in
particle size distribution data from a differential charged-particle mobility analysis (i.e.,
differential charged-particle mobility particle size distribution data having particle count versus
particle diameter) can be represented by a one or more decaying exponential functions over
selected diameter regions. Accordingly, in some embodiments the differential charged-particle
mobility particle size distribution data are fit in a selected region to a function having the form of
Eqn 4:
                                                       7 *d)    (4)
                                        y1 =ki *e (0.
wherein y1 is the best fit for the contribution to the differential charged-particle mobility as
determined by methods well known in the art, ki is an empirical constant of the fit, and d is the
particle diameter. The above Eqn. 4 is valid for particle diameters of greater than 2 nm. In some
embodiments, the region of the fit is 3-6, 3-4, 3-5, 3-6, 4-6, or 5-6 nm (particle diameter),
                                                    38

preferably 3-4 nm. In some embodiments, the entire set of differential charged-particle mobility
data is corrected by the function resulting from a fit to Eqn. 4.
[0116]     In some embodiments, the differential charged-particle mobility particle size
distribution data are further processed to account for a contribution due to albumin inclusion in
the sample taken for differential charged-particle mobility analysis. In some embodiments, the
construction of a correction for albumin (i.e., "albumin correction curve") is initially afforded by
a piecewise function having the following form:
    Region          Dependent variable region, nm           Functional correction
    1               0<=d<7                                  0
    2               7<= d <7.1                               y 2 =k    *e(-2.56*7.1)
                                                                     2                Eqn. (5)
    3               7.1 <= d < 8.5                           y 3 = k 3 * e(-2.56 * d) Eqn. (6)
    4               8.5 <= d < 15                           Empirical (from spiked albumin data)
wherein Y2 and Y3 are the functional values in regions 2 and 3, respectively, k2 and k3 are
empirical constants determined by methods well known in the art, and d is the particle diameter.
"Empirical (from spiked albumin data)" refers to the effect on differential charged-particle
mobility particle size distribution data of subtracting from the distribution an amount of albumin
equivalent to the amount of albumin in the measured distribution.
[0117]     In some embodiments, the albumin correction curve is further modified to account for
the presence of albumin dimer. It has been found empirically that albumin dimer is typically
present in samples for differential charged-particle mobility analysis in the range of I- 10%, 1
8%, 2-8%, 2-7%, 2-6%, 2-5%, preferably 2%, and that an albumin correction curve can be scaled
in a particular region to account for, and to gradually suppress, the presence of albumin dimer.
In some embodiments, the lower diameter limit of this particular region is 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11 or even 12 nm. In some embodiments, the upper diameter limit of this particular region
is 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 or even 15 nm. In some embodiments, the range of
this particular region is 0-15, 5-10, 7-9, preferably 7.9-8.4 nm. Accordingly, the albumin
correction curve can be modified by a function having the form of Eqn 7:
                                                      39

                  Y' = y * ((d - lowerlimit) * 2 * dimer + (upperlimit - d) * 2) (7)
wherein y is the albumin correction curve, y' is the albumin correction curve after gradual
suppression of the presence of albumin dimer, d is the particle diameter, lowerlimit and
upperlimit are the lower and upper size limits for the correction, respectively, and dimer is the
selected percentage dimer concentration. In some embodiments, the region in which the
presence of dimer is suppressed is between 7.9 nm (lowerlimit) and 8.4 nm (upperlimit).
[0118]    In some embodiments, a theoretical curve representing albumin monomer is fit to the
differential charged-particle mobility particle size distribution of a sample in a particular region,
using curvefitting methods well known in the art. In some embodiments, this theoretical curve is
represented by a function having the form of Eqn. 8:
                                      Ym= km *e(      k, *d) (8)
wherein ym is the theoretical number distribution of albumin monomer, km and ka are empirically
derived constants In some embodiments, ka is in the range of 0.1-10, 1-5, 2-4 or 2-3. In some
embodiments, ka is 2.56. In some embodiments, this particular region is the range 0-15, 5-10, 6
9, 7-8, preferably 7.3-7.5 nm. In some embodiments, after determination of the contribution of
albumin monomer which results in the best fit to Eqn. 8, the differential charged-particle
mobility particle size distribution data are corrected by subtracting Eqn. 7 therefrom, scaled by
the same contribution. In some embodiments, the correction afforded by subtracting Eqn. 7 is
conducted in a particular region, for example without limitation, 0-15, 2-12, 4-10, preferably 6
10 nm. In some embodiments wherein the correction does not contemplate the range 10-11 nm,
a corresponding correction in the region 10-11 nm is conducted by multiplying Eqn 7. by a factor
of (1 1-diameter) and subtracting the result from the differential charged-particle mobility particle
size distribution data.
[0119]    The process described above may be implemented in a variety of electronic devices,
such as desktop or laptop computers or handheld devices, for example. Such devices are well
known to those skilled in the art. Additionally, the results may be displayed on a monitor,
printed or stored on a memory device, such as a hard drive, CD ROM, CD R/W, flash memory or
the like. Further, the results may be made available to other devices through a network, which
                                                   40

may be a private network or a public network, such as the Internet. In this regard, the electronic
device and/or the memory device may be accessible through the network.
[0120]    In one embodiment, the measured values are compared to empirically determined
ranges to perform a diagnosis based on a patient's serum or plasma values falling within or
outside a range. The chart below illustrates one exemplary set of ranges for such a diagnosis:
nmol/L     HDL 3              HDL 2a              HDL 2b
Female      475 -     4224    903     -   3779    384         1616
                                                        -                    LDL Total
Male        613 -     3344    1174   -    3744     169        1153
                                                        -                    272    -  1189
                         LDL III         LDL II          LDL I               508    -  1279
nmol/L     LDL IV
Female     33 - 129      82       442    91     -  574 51     - 186
Male       38 - 164      136 - 627       200    -  596 48     -   164
           LDL Particle Size
            (A)
Female      215.4 -     232.9
Male        212.3 -     230.9
nmol/L     IDL 2              IDL 1
Female      11   -    48      10      -   38
Male        12    -   59      11     -    41
nmol/L     VLDLsm             VLDL int            VLDL lg
Female      5.81-     26.6    1.0    - 5.7        0.2 -       1.8
Male        5.01-     23.0    1.1    - 7.3        0.2 -       2.5
[0121]    Differential charged-particle mobility spectrometry provides a way to measure the size
distribution of nanoparticles based on gas-phase particle electrical mobility. This methodology
was adapted for measuring the size distribution of lipoprotein particles. The method was
automated and generated profiles of particle number and particle mass versus particle diameter in
about one minute. Lipoproteins are first enriched (plasma protein removal) by
ultracentrifugation and then diluted in a volatile buffer and electrosprayed. A charge
neutralization process leaves a well-characterized fraction of the particles with a single charge.
The charged particles are drawn through a Differential Mobility Analyzer (DMA), which allows
particles of a narrow size to pass to a particle counter as a function of a voltage applied to the
DMA. By scanning the applied voltage, particle number distributions are obtained for HDL,
                                                   41

LDL, IDL and VLDL. The measurements are based on first principles and do not need to be
calibrated with respect to particle size. Particle number distributions are converted into particle
mass distributions. Using this method, the intra-assay variation for LDL diameter was <0.6%,
for concentration, <10% for HDL and LDL and <15% for IDL and VLDL. The inter-assay
reproducibility was <1.0% for LDL particle size, and for concentration, <15% for HDL and LDL
and < 20% for IDL and < 25% for VLDL. The table below shows the summary data, expressed
as mean and SD, used to generate reference ranges for the individual lipoprotein fractions. A
total of 259 healthy individuals (191 F, 68 M) who met the current NCEP ATP III criteria for
optimal lipid/lipoprotein levels: total cholesterol (chol) <200, LDL chol <100, HDL chol >40
(M) >50 (F), triglyceride <150 mg/dL were used in the study. The results show the expected
difference between genders, males having higher concentrations of smaller LDL particles and
females having increased HDL 2b.
                                            P                                                 P
                                            males                                             males
Lipoprotein          Mean        SD         vs.        Lipoprotein            Mean SD         vs.
Fraction     Gender  nmol/L      nmol/L     females    Fraction     Gender    nmol/L nmol/L females
HDL 3        Female  1443        847        0.071      IDL 1        Female    16      9       0.003
             Male    1646        602                                Male      20      11
HDL 2b       Female  834         299        <0.003     IDL 2        Female    25      10      0.007
             Male    494         258                                Male      29      12
HDL 2a       Female  2343        719        0.850      VLDL smallFemale       11.2    5.7     0.506
             Male    2325        655                                Male      10.7    4.8
LDL IV       Female  70          24         <0.003     VLDL inter Female      3.0     1.3     <0.003
             Male    84          31                                 Male      3.7     1.6
LDL III      Female  212         103        <0.003     VLDL large Female      0.9     0.4     <0.003
             Male    313         125                                Male      1.2     0.6
LDL II       Female  336         125        <0.003
             Male    407         119
LDL I        Female  112         35         0.012
             Male    100         29
Total LDL Female     727         227        <0.003
             Male    893         193
                     Angstrom Angstrom
LDL Peak Female 225.7            4.48       <0.003
Diameter Male 221.7              4.19
                                                   42

[0122]    Ranges for the remainder of the population (abnormal) with one or more criterion
outside the ATP III guidelines were determined. These showed expected differences with
increased concentrations of smaller LDL as well as decreased size and decreased concentration
of HDL 2b (B) with little change in HDL 2a and 3.
[0123]    The methods described above may be carried out in a variety of apparatuses. For
example, U.S. Patent No. 7,259,018 to Benner et al. describes an apparatus by which a sample
solution in a centrifuging tube is expelled through a capillary tube where it becomes ionized by
the electrospray process as it exits the capillary tube. Thus, the pressure differential caused by
the pressure chamber transfers the ionized sample into a gas stream, which then carries the
sample to a mobility analyzer. Once the sample in the centrifuging tube is analyzed, another
tube of sample is placed within the pressure chamber. In this arrangement, however, since only a
small volume of the sample is provided at any time in a centrifuging tube, the flow rate of the
sample through the capillary can vary substantially over time even if the pressure in the pressure
chamber is maintained, thereby affecting the quantitative determinations from the ion mobility
analyzer based on predicted flow rates.
[0124]    Embodiments of the present invention address these concerns. In accordance with
embodiments of the invention, a constant flow rate is achieved by pumping the sample through a
capillary and by ionizing (or charging) the sample within the capillary during flow to the ion
mobility analyzer. Figure 8 illustrates an exemplary apparatus for ion mobility analysis
according to an embodiment of the invention. The ion mobility analysis apparatus 10 of Figure 8
includes an ion mobility analyzer 20 similar to that illustrated in U.S. Patent No. 7,259,018. The
ion mobility analyzer 20 is capable of counting particles flowing therethrough. The ion mobility
analyzer 20 may be provided with an electronic device (not shown), such as a computer, capable
of processing the data in accordance with, for example, the algorithm described above.
[0125]    A charged particle stream of the sample is provided to the ion mobility analyzer 20
from an autosampler 22. The autosampler 22 may be a robotic system for automatically
supplying a sample. One such autosampler is model HTC PAL, Leap Technologies of Carrboro,
North Carolina. In one embodiment, the autosampler is a robotic device that only supplies
purified sample from a rack of tubes or from a multiwell plate to the pump(s). The autosampler
                                                   43

22 can provide a substantially continuous supply of samples for ion mobility analysis without the
need for substantial human intervention.
[0126]     Sample from the autosampler 22 is supplied to a first pump 26 through an injection port
24. In this regard, the autosampler 22 may include a reservoir (not shown) in which the purified
sample is contained. The injection port 24 may be a part of the first pump 26. The first pump 26
is a high flow-rate (or high-flow) pump capable of pumping the sample from the autosampler 22
at a relatively high flow rate (e.g., greater than or equal to 1.0 microliter per minute). In one
embodiment, the high-flow pump pumps the sample from the autosampler 22 at a rate of
approximately 5-20 microliters per minute. Most preferably, the high-flow pump pumps the
sample at a rate of approximately 10 microliters per minute. Suitable high flow pumps are
obtained from Eksigent Technologies, 2021 Las Positas Ct Suite 161, Livermore, CA.
[0127]     From the first pump 26, the sample is supplied to a second pump 30. The second pump
30 is a low flow-rate (or nanoflow) pump capable of pumping the sample to a capillary 34 at a
relatively low rate (e.g., less than or equal to 1.0 microliters per minute) to enable proper
ionization or charging of the particles of the sample, as described below. In one embodiment,
the nanoflow pump pumps the sample to the capillary at a rate of approximately 100-200
nanoliters per minute. Most preferably, the nanoflow pump pumps the sample at a rate of
approximately 200 nanoliters per minute. Suitable nanoflow pumps are obtained from Eksigent
Technologies, 2021 Las Positas Ct Suite 161, Livermore, CA.
[0128]     In one embodiment, a combination pump assembly may be used in place of the two
pumps. For example, a pump assembly may include a high-flow component and one or more
nanoflow components. An exemplary combination pump assembly is NanoLC 1-D, available
from Eksigent Technologies, 2021 Las Positas Ct Suite 161, Livermore, CA.
[0129]     In one embodiment, the first pump 26 may supply the sample to a plurality of nanoflow
pumps through either a single valve 28 or a plurality of valves.
[0130]     Flow to and through the capillary 34 may be controlled via a valve 32, which may be
part of the second pump 30 or may be a separate valve positioned within the capillary 34. The
valve 32 ensures a constant flow rate of the sample through the capillary 34 downstream of the
                                                   44

valve 32. The valve 32 may be electronically controlled to maintain the constant flow rate. In
this regard, the valve may be controlled in response to sensors or meters positioned downstream
of the valve 32.
[0131]     The sample particles are charged during their flow through the capillary 34 by an
ionizer 40. As will be understood by those skilled in the art, the actual ionization or charging of
the particles may occur as the particles exit the capillary into the ion mobility analyzer. In one
embodiment, the ionizer 40 is a conductive union assembly positioned around a portion of the
capillary 34. Conductive unions (also known as a conductive junctions) apply an electrical
current around a very thin flow to provide an electrical charge to the flow. One exemplary
conductive union assembly is described in U.S. Patent No. 7,075,066, which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety. The charged sample particles are then supplied through the
capillary 34 to the ion mobility analyzer 20.
[0132]     Figures 9A and 9B illustrate exemplary embodiments of the conductive union for use in
charging the flow of the sample particles through the capillary. Referring first to Figure 9A, a
conductive union assembly 40a is formed around the capillary 34. An ionization region 35 of the
capillary 34 is surrounded by a conductive union 42. A voltage applied to the conductive union
42 causes charging of the particles in the flow through the ionization region 35 of the capillary
34. For a detailed explanation of the operation of the conductive union assembly 40a, reference
may be made to U.S. Patent No. 7,075,066.
[0133]     Referring now to Figure 9B, another embodiment of a conductive union assembly is
illustrated. In the embodiment of Figure 9B, a conductive union assembly 40b forms a microtite
region 37 in a portion of the capillary 34 through which the sample flows. The microtite region
37 may form a joint, or a seal, between two sections of the capillary. The microtite region 37 has
a small dead volume in which the sample particles are charged. In one embodiment, the
microtite region 37 has a dead volume of approximately 5-50 nanoliters. In a most preferred
embodiment, the microtite region 37 has a dead volume of approximately 10-15 nanoliters. The
microtite region 37 is preferably formed of stainless steel. The conductive union assembly 40b
includes a conductive union 44 formed around the microtite region 37. A voltage applied to the
conductive union 44 causes charging of the particles in the flow through the microtite region 37.
                                                  45

[0134]    Thus, the ion mobility analyzer 20 is provided with a controlled nanoflow of the sample
at a substantially time-invariant rate. In this regard, the flow rate preferably varies by less than
five percent from a nominal rate, more preferably by less than two percent and, most preferably
by less than one percent. This allows for a more consistent and reliable analysis to be performed
by the ion mobility analyzer 20.
[0135]    All patents and other references cited in the specification are incorporated by reference
in their entireties, including any tables and figures, to the same extent as if each reference had
been incorporated by reference in its entirety individually.
[0136]    One skilled in the art would readily appreciate that the present invention is well adapted
to obtain the ends and advantages mentioned, as well as those inherent therein. The methods,
variances, and compositions described herein as presently representative of preferred
embodiments are exemplary and are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention.
Changes therein and other uses which will occur to those skilled in the art, which are
encompassed within the spirit of the invention, are defined by the scope of the claims.
[0137]    It will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art that varying substitutions and
modifications may be made to the invention disclosed herein without departing from the scope
and spirit of the invention. Thus, such additional embodiments are within the scope of the
present invention and the following claims.
[0138]    The invention illustratively described herein suitably may be practiced in the absence of
any element or elements, limitation or limitations which is not specifically disclosed herein.
Thus, for example, in each instance herein any of the terms "comprising", "consisting essentially
of' and "consisting of' may be replaced with either of the other two terms. The terms and
expressions which have been employed are used as terms of description and not of limitation,
and there is no intention that in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any
equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof, but it is recognized that
various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention claimed. Thus, it should be
understood that although the present invention has been specifically disclosed by preferred
embodiments and optional features, modification and variation of the concepts herein disclosed
                                                   46

may be resorted to by those skilled in the art, and that such modifications and variations are
considered to be within the scope of this invention as defined by the appended claims.
[0139]   In addition, where features or aspects of the invention are described in terms of
Markush groups or other grouping of alternatives, those skilled in the art will recognize that the
invention is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members
of the Markush group or other group.
[0140]   Also, unless indicated to the contrary, where various numerical values are provided for
embodiments, additional embodiments are described by taking any two different values as the
endpoints of a range. Such ranges are also within the scope of the described invention.
[0141]   Thus, additional embodiments are within the scope of the invention and within the
following claims.
                                                  47

                                                    48
CLAIMS:
1.        A computer-readable medium including a computer code stored thereon, said computer
code for analyzing the size distribution of lipoproteins, comprising:
          (a)    determining a differential mobility particle size distribution in one or more
                 regions of particle sizes for one or more lipoproteins subjected to differential
                 charged-particle mobility analysis;
          (b)    subtracting contribution to the particle size distribution of a non-lipoprotein
                 reagent or a non-lipoprotein sample material to obtain a lipoprotein particle size
                 distribution; and
          (c)    outputting the lipoprotein size distribution to a display, a printer or a memory.
2.        The computer-readable medium according to Claim 1, wherein the computer code
further comprises:
          determining a particle size distribution by determining a best fit for said one or more
regions.
3.        The computer-readable medium according to Claim 2, wherein the best fit is of the
form:
                                           y, = k, *e -0.7 * d)
where yi is a contribution to the measured differential mobility size distribution, ki is an
empirical constant of the fit, and d is particle diameter;
          wherein said determining a best fit includes calculating a value for k1 .
4.        The computer-readable medium according to Claim 1, wherein said subtracting
comprises applying a theoretical curve representing particle size distribution of said non
lipoprotein reagent or said non-lipoprotein sample material.
5.        The computer-readable medium according to Claim 1, wherein said non-lipoprotein
reagent is Reactive Green 19 conjugated with dextran (RGD).
 (13953497_1):GGG

                                                        49
       6.       The computer-readable medium according to Claim 1, wherein said non-lipoprotein
       sample material is albumin.
       7.       An apparatus for differential charged-particle mobility analysis, comprising:
                (a)   one or more pumps adapted to transport sample through a capillary;
                (b)   an ionizer adapted to charge particles of said sample as the sample flows within
                      the capillary; and
                (c)   an ion mobility analyzer adapted to perform a differential charged-particle
                      mobility analysis on said sample of charged particles.
       8.       The apparatus according to Claim 7, further comprising an autosampler adapted to
       provide a sample for differential charged-particle mobility analysis to said one or more pumps.
       9.       The apparatus according to Claim 7, wherein said sample comprises
       lipoproteins.
       10.      The apparatus according to Claim 7, wherein said one or more pumps comprises a
       high-flow pump adapted to provide the sample to a nanoflow pump, said nanoflow pump
       adapted to provide the sample to the capillary.
       11.      The apparatus according to Claim 10, wherein the high-flow pump pumps the sample
       at a rate of approximately 15-25 microliters per minute, and wherein the nanoflow pump
       pumps the sample at a rate of approximately 100-200 nanoliters per minute.
       12.      The apparatus according to Claim 7, wherein said ionizer comprises a conductive
       union around a part of the capillary.
       13.      The apparatus according to Claim 12, wherein said conductive union applies a charge
       to the sample flowing therethrough, thereby charging particles of the sample.
(13953497_1):GGG

                                                        50
       14.     The apparatus according to Claim 12, wherein said conductive union forms a microtite
       region in a part of the capillary and applies a charge to the sample flowing
       therethrough, thereby charging particles of the sample.
       15.     The apparatus according to Claim 14, wherein said microtite region has a dead volume
       of approximately, 5-50 nanoliters.
       16.     The apparatus according to Claim 15, wherein said microtite region has a dead volume
       of approximately, 10-15 nanoliters.
                                Quest Diagnostics Investments Incorporated
                           Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                           SPRUSON & FERGUSON
(13953497_1):GGG

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
