                                    ABSTRACT
The present invention provides levamisole-/macrocyclic lactone-containing injectable
formulations that are effective against animal pests, including endoparasites, in or on
birds and mammals. The invention also provides for an improved method for
eradicating, controlling and preventing parasite infestation of birds and mammals.

   TITLE OF THE INVENTION
   INJECTABLE         PARASITICIDAL          FORMULATIONS             OF      LEVAMISOLE        AND
   MACROCYCLIC LACTONES
 5 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
           This Application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which
   is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2013206630, which is a divisional of
   Australian Patent Application No. 2011252987, which corresponds to International Patent
   Application PCT/US20I 1/036321 in the Australian National Phase, the entire contents of which
 0 are incorporated herein by reference.
           This application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61/333,882,
   filed May 12, 2010. All documents cited or referenced in the applicant cited documents, and all
   documents cited or referenced herein ("herein cited documents"), and all documents cited or
   referenced   in herein cited     documents, together with any         manufacturer's  instructions,
 5 descriptions, product specifications, and product sheets for any products mentioned herein or in
   any document incorporated by reference herein, are hereby incorporated herein by reference, and
   may be employed in the practice of the invention.
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 0         The present invention is directed to new injectable parasiticidal formulations comprising
   levamisole and macrocyclic lactones. The present invention also provides methods for
   eradicating, controlling, and preventing parasite infestation and/or infection in birds, fish and
   mammals. The formulations of the invention may be administered to animals, particularly
   mammals, fish and birds, to prevent or treat parasitic infestation and/or infection.
25
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Animals, such as mammals, fish and birds are often susceptible to parasite infestation
   and/or infection. These parasites may be ectoparasites, such as insects and acarine species, and
   endoparasites such as filariae and other worms. Endoparasites pose a significant problem to those
30 who raise production animals such as bovines, ovines, and porcines. Thus, there is an ongoing
                                                    1

  need to develop active pesticidal and parasiticidal compounds to protect animals against attack or
  infestation/infection by pests.
          Many endoparasiticides or anthelmintics exist in the art for treating internal parasites and
  other animal pests. These endoparasiticides vary in cost as well as their effectiveness to a
5 particular parasite. However, the results of treatment with these pesticides are not always
  satisfactory because of continued development of resistance by the parasite to the available
                                                   la

     WO 2011/143479                                                          PCT/US2011/036321
therapeutic agents. Thus, there is a need in the art for more effective parasiticidal agents for
treatment and protection of animals, e.g. mammals, fish and birds from infestation by animal
parasites.
        The avermectin and milbemycin series of compounds are potent anthelmintic and
antiparasitic agents against a wide range of internal and external parasites. The compounds
which belong to this series are either natural products or are semi-synthetic derivatives thereof.
The structure of these two series of compounds are closely related and they both share a complex
16-membered macrocyclic lactone ring; however, the milbemycins do not contain the
disaccharide substituent in the 13-position of the lactone ring. The natural product avermectins
are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,310,519 to Albers-Schonberg, et al., and the 22, 23-dihydro
avermectin compounds are disclosed in Chabala, et al., U.S. Patent No. 4,199,569. For a general
discussion of avermectins, which include a discussion of their uses in humans and animals, see
"Ivermectin and Abamectin," W. C. Campbell, ed., Springer-Verlag, N.Y. (1989). Naturally
occurring milbemycins are described in Aoki et al., U.S. Patent No. 3,950,360 as well as in the
various references cited in "The Merck Index"      1 2 th ed., S. Budavari, Ed., Merck & Co., Inc.
Whitehouse Station, N.J. (1996). Semi-synthetic derivatives of these classes of compounds are
well known in the art and are described, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 5,077,308, U.S. Patent
No. 4,859,657, U.S. Patent No. 4,963,582, U.S. Patent No. 4,855,317, U.S. Patent No. 4,871,719,
U.S. Patent No. 4,874,749, U.S. Patent No. 4,427,663, U.S. Patent No. 4,310,519, U.S. Patent
No. 4,199,569, U.S. Patent No. 5,055,596, U.S. Patent No. 4,973,711, U.S. Patent No. 4,978,677,
and U.S. Patent No. 4,920,148, all incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. A
particularly useful macrocyclic lactone is eprinomectin, which is described in US6,174,540,
US6,733,767, US5,602,107 to Merck (all incorporated by reference). This compound provides
for a very short milk withdrawal period due to it tendency to partition away from the milk of a
lactating mammal.
        To overcome the problem of resistance, various combinations of anthelmintics have been
extensively researched. Unfortunately, combinations of macrocyclic lactone anthelmintics with
anthelmintics of other families have proven difficult to formulate at high concentration and with
an acceptable viscosity for injection. For example, Closamectin (manufactured by Norbrook)
contains ivermectin at 0.5% and closantel at 12.5% and is so viscous that the product is supplied
in a special pack that has a warming device. The warming device is activated 15 minutes before
                                                 2

      WO 2011/143479                                                       PCT/US2011/036321
administration and the pack requires periodic shaking throughout this time to ensure temperature
reduces the viscosity sufficiently for acceptable administration.
        Another example, which has been the subject of considerable research, is combining a
macrocyclic lactone (ML) with levamisole. The difficulties of combining these two actives lies
in the stability of each being incompatible in the environment in which the other is stable.
Levamisole is stable in acid conditions usually a pH of about 4 or below, while macrocyclic
lactones are unstable in conditions where the pH is acidic. Both levamisole and macrocyclic
lactones are well known in the art. In particular, levamisole has been used as an anthelmintic to
treat nematodes and respiratory worm infestations in both humans and animals. Levamisole may
be combined with other actives, although often with significant difficulty, as is described in
various patents and applications. For example, US 2009/0075918 Al to Neto et al. appears to
contemplate adding various organic salts of levamisole to macrocyclic lactones, but provides no
working examples. Other applications that mention levamisole in combination with macrocyclic
lactones include WO 00/061068, which describes non-aqueous pour-on formulations that further
contain triclabendazole,    and WO       04/009080, which describes     stable pyrrolidone-based
formulations of avermectins or milbemycins combined with levamisole. Even more recently,
W02010021555       (to Intervet) has described oral drenches containing levamisole and a
macrocyclic lactone, where the macrocyclic lactone is apparently stabilized via the inclusion of a
protective agent, namely hydroxypropyl starch phosphate. Since this type of "protective agent"
also serves as a thickener and emulsion stabilizer, this particular approach to stabilizing the
macrocyclic lactone component may be ill-suited to developing injectable formulations.
Hydroxypropyl starch phosphate (HP starch) is typically used for creams & lotions, foundations,
mascara, color cosmetics, liquid make-up, liquid talc, conditioners, shampoos, sunscreen
products, and antiperspirants. Finally, AU200310102         (to Nufarm and Novartis) describes
formulations having levamisole, avermectins, and benzimidazole, said formulations appearing to
make use of a biphasic solvent system, in an attempt to overcome the problematic instability of
formulations which comprise levamisole and macrocyclic lactones. Several patents describe
long-acting injectable combination formulations comprising macrocyclic lactones and other
actives, for example US patent numbers US 6,174,540 and US 6,733,767 (to Merck), which use
castor oil and liquid polymers, respectively, to achieve the sustained release of the macrocyclic
lactones and the other actives. After reviewing the current literature, applicants are unaware of
                                                  3

     WO 2011/143479                                                           PCT/US2011/036321
any previously described, effective combinations of levamisole and eprinomectin, injectable or
otherwise.
        It is expressly noted that citation or identification of any document in this application is
not an admission that such document is available as prior art to the present invention. Any
foregoing applications, and all documents cited therein or during their prosecution ("application
cited documents") and all documents cited or referenced in the application cited documents, and
all documents cited or referenced herein ("herein cited documents"), and all documents cited or
referenced in herein cited documents, together with any manufacturer's                   instructions,
descriptions, product specifications, and product sheets for any products mentioned herein or in
any document incorporated by reference herein, are hereby incorporated herein by reference, and
may be employed in the practice of the invention.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
        The invention provides novel parasiticidal formulations comprising levamisole and
macrocyclic lactones, particularly avermectins such as ivermectin and eprinomectin, and
milbemycins, such as moxidectin, milbemectin, and milbemycin oxime. The formulations are
storage-stable and provided in a single solvent system that is miscible in water. Therefore, the
formulations according to the present invention may be classified as micellar solutions as
opposed to emulsions or biphasic emulsions. The invention also provides methods for the
treatment and prevention of parasitic infestation and/or infection of animals.
        The inventive formulations comprising the levamisole and macrocyclic lactones are
highly effective for the treatment or prophylaxis of parasites in or on mammals, fish and birds,
and in particular, cats, dogs, horses, chickens, pigs, sheep and cattle with the aim of ridding these
hosts of all the parasites commonly encountered by mammals, fish and birds. The invention also
provides for effective and long-lasting defense against endoparasites, such as helminths,
nematodes, filariae, hookworms, whipworms and roundworms of the digestive tract of animals
and humans.
        Accordingly, the present invention provides methods for preventing and treating parasites
in or on animals, comprising administering a parasiticidally effective amount of a storage-stable
injectable formulation comprising levamisole and macrocyclic lactone to the animal. The
invention also provides a method for combating or controlling animal pests and parasites.
                                                   4

        WO 2011/143479                                                          PCT/US2011/036321
          It is an object of the invention to not encompass within the invention any previously
  known product, process of making the product, or method of using the product such that the
  Applicants reserve the right to this invention and hereby disclose a disclaimer of any previously
  known product, process, or method.
          It is noted that in this disclosure and particularly in the claims and/or paragraphs, terms
  such as "comprises", "comprised", "comprising" and the like can have the meaning attributed to
  it in U.S. Patent law; e.g., they can mean "includes", "included", "including", and the like; and
  that terms such as "consisting essentially of' and "consists essentially of' have the meaning
  ascribed to them in U.S. Patent law; e.g., they allow for elements not explicitly recited, but
  exclude elements that are found in the prior art or that affect a basic or novel characteristic of the
  invention.
          These and other embodiments are disclosed or are obvious from, and encompassed by,
  the following Detailed Description.
  BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
          The following Detailed Description, given by way of example, and not intended to limit
  the invention to specific embodiments described, may be understood in conjunction with the
  accompanying Figures, incorporated herein by reference, in which:
          FIG. 1 is a flow diagram outlining the preparation of formulations according to the
  instant invention
          FIG. 2 depicts levamisole plasma concentration at time points after administration of
  formulations according to the instant invention
          FIG. 3 depicts eprinomectin plasma concentration at time points after administration of
  formulations according to the instant invention
  DETAILED DESCRIPTION
5         The present invention provides novel injectable levamisole / macrocyclic lactone
  formulations with parasiticidal activity, for the treatment or prevention of parasitic infestations
  and/or infection in an animal. Also provided are methods for the treatment or prevention of
  parasitic infestations and/or infection in animals, comprising administering an effective amount
  of the formulation of the invention to the animal.
          An important aspect of formulations containing eprinomectin as the macrocyclic lactone
  component is that said formulations may have shortened withdrawal times before it is
                                                    5

      WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
appropriate to obtain milk from lactating mammals. This is because of the macrocyclic lactones,
eprinomectin has relatively the lowest milk to plasma partition ratio (~0.2). For a point of
reference and definition, a milk to plasma partition ratio of 1 would indicate the active tends to
distribute evenly between milk and plasma.
        Formulations described herein are particularly effective for controlling endoparasites.
Endoparasites include, but are not limited to, nematodes (such as roundworms, hookworms,
whipworms and heartworms) and cestodes (tapeworms) and trematodes (flukes). Therefore, the
inventive formulations have substantial utility in preventing damage to crops, plants, plant
propagation material and wood-containing property, and in controlling and preventing the
infestation and/or infection of animals by parasites.
        The invention includes at least the following features:
        (a) In one embodiment, the invention provides novel injectable formulations comprising
levamisole and macrocyclic lactones, which are active against animal pests, including insects and
parasites;
        (b) methods for treating a parasitic infestation/infection in or on an animal are provided,
which methods comprise administering a parasiticidally effective amount of a levamisole /
macrocyclic lactone-containing formulation to the animal in need thereof;
        (c) methods for the prevention of a parasitic infestation/infection of an animal, which
comprise administering a parasiticidally effective amount the levamisole / macrocyclic lactone
containing formulation to the animal in need thereof;
        (d) use of the formulations as a veterinary medicament for controlling pests, including
parasites; and
        (e) processes for the preparation of the levamisole / macrocyclic lactone-containing
formulations.
        Also contemplated within the scope of the invention are acid or base salts of the
compounds in the compositions of the invention, where applicable.
        The term "acid" contemplates all pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic acids.
Inorganic acids include mineral acids such as hydrohalic acids such as hydrobromic acid and
hydrochloric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric acids and nitric acid. Organic acids include all
pharmaceutically acceptable aliphatic, alicyclic and aromatic carboxylic acids, dicarboxylic
acids, tricarboxylic acids and fatty acids. In one embodiment of the acids, the acids are straight
                                                  6

      WO 2011/143479                                                          PCT/US2011/036321
chain or branched, saturated or unsaturated C1-C20 aliphatic carboxylic acids, which are
optionally substituted by halogen or by hydroxyl groups, or C6 -C 12 aromatic carboxylic acids.
Examples of such acids are carbonic acid, formic acid, acetic acid, propionic acid, isopropionic
acid, valeric acid, a-hydroxy acids such as glycolic acid and lactic acid, chloroacetic acid,
benzoic acid, methane sulfonic acid, and salicylic acid. Examples of dicarboxylic acids include
oxalic acid, malic acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid, fumaric acid, and maleic acid. An example of
a tricarboxylic acid is citric acid. Fatty acids include all pharmaceutically acceptable saturated or
unsaturated aliphatic or aromatic carboxylic acids having 4 to 24 carbon atoms. Examples
include butyric acid, isobutyric acid, sec-butyric acid, lauric acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid,
oleic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, and phenylsteric acid. Other acids include gluconic acid,
glycoheptonic acid and lactobionic acid.
         The term "base" contemplates all pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic bases,
including hydroxides, carbonates or bicarbonates of alkali metal or alkaline earth metals. Salts
formed with such bases include, for example, the alkali metal and alkaline earth metal salts,
including, but not limited to, as the lithium, sodium, potassium, magnesium or calcium salts.
Salts formed with organic bases include the common hydrocarbon and heterocyclic amine salts,
which include, for example, ammonium salts (NH4), alkyl- and dialkylammonium salts, and
salts of cyclic amines such as the morpholine and piperidine salts.
         In addition, the compounds within the compositions of the invention may exist as
hydrates or solvates, in which a certain stoichiometric amount of water or a solvent is associated
with the molecule in the crystalline form. The compositions of the invention may include
hydrates and solvates of the active agents.
Definitions:
         Terms used herein will have their customary meanings in the art unless specified. As
used herein the term "anthelmintic" and variations thereof encompasses one or more
nematocidal, trematocidal and cestocidal active compounds. The term "pesticidal" and variations
thereof includes any said anthelmintic, any endectoparasiticidal, and/or any ectoparasiticidal
compound. Where the context allows the term "ectoparasiticidal" includes compounds effective
against any one or more ectoparasites including ticks, lice, fleas, mites and the like. Further, as
                                                    7

     WO 2011/143479                                                           PCT/US2011/036321
used herein the "endectoparasiticidal"        and variants thereof includes compounds and/or
formulations that are active against internal (endo) and external (ecto) parasites.
        As used herein the term "solubility" refers to the ability of a compound to be dissolved in
a specific phase; and "lipophilic" means a greater tendency to an organic, oil or the like phase as
opposed to another phase (for example, the aqueous phase).
        As referred to herein the term "injectable" in the context of fluids or liquids covers
viscosities ranging from a free flowing liquid to a thin gel consistency that is capable of being
expelled by syringe and suitable for being administered to an animal via injection. As used
herein, a suitable or appropriate viscosity for injection may be between 1-50 cp or from 1-10 cp.
Routes of injection may be parenteral, for example intramuscular (IM), intraperitoneal (IP), or
subcutaneous (SQ).
        As referred to herein the term "acceptable storage stability" means stable for greater than
3 months at room temperature.
Formulations of the Invention:
        The formulations of the invention comprise at least levamisole and at least one
macrocyclic lactone active compound, and are provided as micellar solutions of actives, which
are miscible in water for injection, and are particularly effective at controlling / combating
parasites, particularly endoparasites. In certain embodiments, the formulations of the invention
are useful in veterinary applications, including for controlling parasites in or on an animal.
        In one embodiment, the at least one macrocyclic lactone active agent in the formulations
of the invention may be at least one avermectin or milbemycin compound. In various
embodiments, the at least one macrocyclic lactone compound may be abamectin, avermectin,
dimadectin, doramectin, emamectin, eprinomectin, ivermectin, latidectin, lepimectin, selamectin,
milbemectin, milbemycin D, milbemycin oxime, moxidectin or nemadectin.
        In another embodiment, the at least one macrocyclic lactone active agent may be any one
of the avermectins or avermectin monosaccharides modified in the 4' or 4" position described in
US 7,704,961, US 7,521,429, US 2006-0105970 Al, US 7,678,740, US 7,632,820, US
7,678,773, US 7,605,134, and US 6,933,260 (each to Merial). It will be appreciated by a skilled
person that any of the above-recited avermectins exhibiting a relatively low milk to plasma
partition ratio (for example less than about 1, less than about 0.5, and even more favorably, less
                                                   8

     WO 2011/143479                                                        PCT/US2011/036321
than about 0.2) will be a particularly desirable component of formulations according to the
instant invention.
        In one embodiment the invention provides formulations according to the following:
        (a) Levamisole;
        (b) At least one macrocyclic lactone;
        (c) At least one water miscible organic solvent;
        (d) A surfactant;
        (e) Water for injection (referred to hereafter as "WFI").
        In another embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising:
        (a) Levamisole;
        (b) At least one of ivermectin, abamectin, or eprinomectin, or a mixture thereof;
        (c) At least one water miscible organic solvent;
        (d) A surfactant; and
        (e) WFI.
        In still another embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising:
        (a) Levamisole;
        (b) At least one of dimadectin, doramectin emamectin, latidectin, lepimectin or
            selamectin, or a mixture thereof;
        (c) At least one water miscible organic solvent;
        (d) A surfactant; and
        (e) WFI.
        In yet another embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising:
        (a) Levamisole;
        (b) At least one of ivermectin, abamectin, or eprinomectin, or a mixture thereof;
        (c) At least one water miscible organic solvent;
        (d) A surfactant; and
        (e) WFI.
        In another embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising:
        (a) Levamisole;
        (b) At least one of milbemectin, milbemycin D, milbemycin oxime, moxidectin or
            nemadectin, or a mixture thereof;
                                                  9

     WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
        (c) At least one water miscible organic solvent;
        (d) A surfactant; and
        (e) WFI.
        In a preferred embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising:
        (a) Levamisole;
        (b) At least one of ivermectin or eprinomectin, or a mixture thereof;
        (c) At least one water miscible organic solvent;
        (d) A surfactant; and
        (e) WFI.
        In another embodiment, the invention provides a formulation comprising:
        (a) Levamisole;
        (b) At least one of avermectin or avermectin monosaccharide, each modified at the 4' or
            4" position, or a mixture thereof;
        (c) At least one water miscible organic solvent;
        (d) A surfactant; and
        (e) WFI.
        In an embodiment, the levamisole is levamisole phosphate and is present in an amount
sufficient to deliver a dose of at least 4 mg/kg animal bodyweight. In another embodiment, the
macrocyclic lactone is either ivermectin or eprinomectin and is present in an amount sufficient to
deliver a dose of at least 150 gg/kg animal bodyweight.
        In a particular embodiment, the present invention is a stable injectable formulation
comprising eprinomectin and levamisole and is suitable for use in cattle. In an embodiment, the
formulation is an injectable combination anthelmintic containing about 7 g/L eprinomectin and
about 223 g/L levamisole phosphate.
        In an emodiment, the formulation requires not more than a 35 day withholding period for
either milk or meat.
        In an embodiment, the formulation is administered at a dose rate of 1 mL per 35 kg
(200gg eprinomectin and 6.4 mg levamisole phosphate per kg, equivalent to 5 mg levamisole
HCl per kg). In another embodiment, the formulation is effective against a broad range of
internal parasites including Ostertagla spp., Trichostrongylus axel, Cooperia spp., suckling lice,
and certain strains resistant to certain macrocyclic lactones and/or benzamidazoles.
                                                  10

      WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
        In an embodiment, the formulations have a shelf life and storage condition of at least 2
years at 2-6 'C. In another embodiment, the formulations are prepared as pack sizes of 100 to
1000 mL. In a particular embodiment, the pack sizes are 500 mL flexible packages, or
flexipacks.
        In a preferred embodiment, the water miscible solvent will be an organic solvent,
including an amide, alcohol, ester or sulfoxide. In another preferred embodiment, the
formulations of the invention will comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable amide including, but
not limited to, dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, 2-pyrrolidone, N-methylpyrrolidone and
the like.
        Surfactants are well known in the art and may include non-ionic surfactants, cationic
surfactants and anionic surfactants. Anionic surfactants include, but are not limited to, alkaline
stearates (e.g. sodium, potassium or ammonium stearate); calcium stearate or triethanolamine
stearate; sodium abietate; alkyl sulfates, which include but are not limited to sodium lauryl
sulfate and sodium cetyl sulfate; sodium dodecylbenzenesulphonate              or sodium dioctyl
sulphosuccinate; or fatty acids (e.g. coconut oil);
        Cationic surfactants include, but are not limited to, any known water-soluble quaternary
ammonium salts such as cetyltrimethylammonium bromide and the like; and known amine salts
such as octadecylamine hydrochloride and the like.
        Non-ionic surfactants include, but are not limited to, optionally polyoxyethylenated esters
of sorbitan, e.g. Polysorbate 80, or polyoxyethylenated alkyl ethers; polyethylene glycol stearate,
polyoxyethylenated derivatives of castor oil, polyglycerol esters, polyoxyethylenated fatty
alcohols, polyoxyethylenated fatty acids or copolymers of ethylene oxide and of propylene
oxide. Other surfactants that are suitable for the formulations of the present invention include
amphoteric surfactants, such as substituted lauryl compounds of betaine. The surfactant of the
inventive formulations may also be a mixture of at least two different surfactants.
        In another embodiment, the levamisole is levamisole phosphate and the macrocyclic
lactone is either eprinomectin or ivermectin. In some embodiments, the water miscible organic
solvent is dimethylacetamide (DMA) and the surfactant is CREMOPHOR EL. Thus in an
embodiment, the formulation of the present invention may comprise:
        (a) Levamisole phosphate;
        (b) Eprinomectin, ivermectin, abamectin, doramectin or moxidectin;
                                                  11

     WO 2011/143479                                                               PCT/US2011/036321
        (c) DMA
        (d) CREMOPHOR EL; and
        (e) WFI
        The inventive formulations may contain other inert ingredients such as antioxidants,
preservatives, or pH stabilizers. These compounds are well known in the formulation art.
Antioxidant such as an alpha tocopherol, ascorbic acid, ascrobyl palmitate, fumaric acid, malic
acid, sodium ascorbate, sodium metabisulfate, n-propyl gallate, BHA (butylated hydroxy
anisole), BHT (butylated hydroxy toluene) monothioglycerol and the like, may be added to the
present formulation. In certain embodiments, the antioxidants are generally added to the
formulation in amounts of from about 0.01 to about 2.0%, based upon total weight of the
formulation, with about 0.05 to about 1.0% being especially preferred.
        In some embodiments, preservatives, such as the parabens (methylparaben and/or
propylparaben), are suitably used in the formulation in amounts ranging from about 0.01 to about
2.0%, with about 0.05 to about 1.0% being especially preferred. Other preservatives include
benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, benzoic acid, benzyl alcohol, bronopol,
butylparaben, cetrimide,      chlorhexidine,     chlorobutanol,    chlorocresol,   cresol, ethylparaben,
imidurea, methylparaben, phenol, phenoxyethanol, phenylethyl alcohol, phenylmercuric acetate,
phenylmercuric borate, phenylmercuric nitrate, potassium sorbate, sodium benzoate, sodium
propionate, sorbic acid, thimerosal, and the like. Preferred ranges for these compounds include
from about 0.01 to about 50%.
        Compounds which stabilize the pH of the formulation are also contemplated and may be
used in certain embodiments of the inventive formulations. Again, such compounds are well
known to a practitioner in the art as well as how to use these compounds. Buffering systems
include, for example, systems selected from the group consisting of acetic acid/acetate, malic
acid/malate, citric acid/citrate, tataric acid/tartrate, lactic acid/lactate, phosphoric acid/phosphate,
glycine/glycimate, tris, glutamic acid/glutamates and sodium carbonate.
Parasites Controlled:
        The injectable levamisole / macrocyclic lactone formulations are particularly effective for
efficiently controlling endoparasites, such as flukes, hookworms, and helminths such as cestodes,
nematodes, and trematodes. Endoparasites further include helminths such as Anaplocephala,
                                                     12

      WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
Ancylostoma, Anecator, Ascaris, Capillaria, Cooperia, Dipylidium, Dirofilaria,Echinococcus,
Enterobius, Fasciola, Haemonchus, Oesophagostumum, Ostertagia, Toxocara, Strongyloides,
Toxascaris, Trichinella, Trichuris, and Trichostrongylus. Or others from the class of helminths,
such as from the class of helminths, for example, Ancylostoma duodenale, Ancylostoma
ceylanicum, Acylostoma braziliensis, Ancylostoma spp., Ascaris lubricoides, Ascaris spp.,
Brugia malayi, Brugia timori, Bunostomum spp., Chabertia spp., Clonorchis spp., Cooperia
spp., Dicrocoelium spp, Dictyocaulusfilaria, Diphyllobothrium latum, Dracunculus medinensis,
Echinococcus granulosus, Echinococcus multilocularis, Enterobius vermicularis, Faciola spp.,
Haemonchus spp., Heterakis spp., Hymenolepis nana, Hyostrongulus spp., Loa Loa,
Nematodirus spp., Oesophagostomum spp., Opisthorchis spp., Onchocerca volvulus, Ostertagia
spp., Paragonimusspp., Schistosomen spp., Strongyloidesfuelleborni,Strongyloides stercoralis,
Stronyloides spp., Taenia saginata, Taenia solium, Trichinella spiralis, Trichinella nativa,
Trichinella britovi, Trichinella nelsoni, Trichinella pseudopsiralis, Trichostrongulus spp.,
Trichuris trichuria, Wuchereria bancrofti.
        In one embodiment for treatment against ectoparasites, the ectoparasite is one or more
insect or arachnid including those of the genera Ctenocephalides, Rhipicephalus, Dermacentor,
Ixodes, Boophilus, Ambylomma, Haemaphysalis, Hyalomma, Sarcoptes, Psoroptes, Otodectes,
Chorioptes, Hypoderma, Damalinia,Linognathus, Haematopinus,Solenoptes, Trichodectes, and
Felicola.
        In another embodiment for the treatment against ectoparasites, the ectoparasite is from
the genera Ctenocephalides, Rhipicephalus, Dermacentor, Ixodes and/or Boophilus. The
ectoparasites treated include but are not limited to fleas, ticks, mites, mosquitoes, flies, lice,
blowfly and combinations thereof. Specific examples include but are not limited to cat and dog
fleas (Ctenocephalidesfelis, Ctenocephalides sp. and the like), ticks (Rhipicephalus sp., Ixodes
sp., Dermacentor sp., Amblyoma sp. and the like), and mites (Demodex sp., Sarcoptes sp.,
Otodectes sp. and the like), lice (Trichodectes sp., Cheyletiella sp., Lignonathus sp., and the
like), mosquitoes (Aedes sp., Culex sp., Anopheles sp., and the like) and flies (Hematobia sp.,
Musca sp., Stomoxys sp., Dematobia sp., Cochliomyia sp., and the like). In yet another
embodiment for the treatment against ectoparasites, the ectoparasite is a flea and/or tick.
Additional examples of ectoparasites include but are not limited to the tick genus Boophilus,
especially those of the species microplus (cattle tick), decoloratus and annulatus; myiases such
                                                13

     WO 2011/143479                                                          PCT/US2011/036321
as Dermatobia hominis (known as Berne in Brazil) and Cochliomyia hominivorax (greenbottle);
sheep myiases such as Lucilia sericata, Lucilia cuprina (known as blowfly strike in Australia,
New Zealand and South Africa). Flies proper, namely those whose adult constitutes the parasite,
such as Haematobia irritans(horn fly); lice such as Linognathus vitulorum, etc.; and mites such
as Sarcoptes scabici and Psoroptes ovis. The above list is not exhaustive and other ectoparasites
are well known in the art to be harmful to animals and humans. These include, for example
migrating dipterous larvae.
When an anthelmintic agent is added to the composition of the invention, the composition can
also be used to treat against endoparasites such as those helminths selected from the group
consisting of Anaplocephala,Ancylostoma, Anecator, Ascaris, Capillaria,Cooperia,Dipylidium,
Dirofilaria,Echinococcus, Enterobius, Fasciola, Haemonchus, Oesophagostumum, Ostertagia,
Toxocara, Strongyloides, Toxascaris, Trichinella, Trichuris, and Trichostrongyus.
In another embodiment of the invention, the compounds and compositions of the invention are
suitable for controlling pests such as insects selected from the group consisting of Blatella
germanica, Heliothis virescens, Leptinotarsa decemlineata, Tetramorium caespitum and
combinations thereof.
        The phytoparasitic nematodes include, for example, Anguina spp., Aphelenchoides spp.,
Belonoaimus spp., Bursaphelenchusspp., Ditylenchus dipsaci, Globodera spp., Heliocotylenchus
spp., Heterodera spp., Longidorus spp., Meloidogyne spp., Pratylenchus spp., Radopholus
similis, Rotylenchus spp.,      Trichodorus spp.,    Tylenchorhynchus spp.,       Tylenchulus spp.,
Tylenchulus semipenetrans,Xiphinema spp.
In addition, with or without the other pesticidal agents added to the composition, the invention
can also be used to treat other pests which include but are not limited to pests:
(1)     from the order of Isopoda, for example Oniscus asellus, Armadillidium vulgare and
Porcellio scaber;
(2)     from the order of Diplopoda, for example Blaniulus guttulatus;
(3)     from the order of Chilopoda, for example Geophilus carpophagusand Scutigera spp.;
(4)     from the order of Symphyla, for example Scutigerella immaculata;
(5)     from the order of Thysanura, for example Lepisma saccharina;
(6)     from the order of Collembola, for example Onychiurus armatus;
                                                 14

     WO 2011/143479                                                      PCT/US2011/036321
(7)     from the order of Blattaria, for example Blatta orientalis, Periplaneta americana,
Leucophaea maderae and Blattella germanica;
(8)     from the order of Hymenoptera, for example Diprion spp., Hoplocampa spp., Lasius spp.,
Monomorium pharaonisand Vespa spp.;
(9)     from the order of Siphonaptera, for example Xenopsylla cheopis and Ceratophyllus spp.;
(10)    from the order of Anoplura (Phthiraptera), for example, Damalinia spp., Haematopinus
spp., Linognathus spp., Pediculus spp., Trichodectes spp.;
(11)    from the class of Arachnida, for example, Acarus siro, Aceria sheldoni, Aculops spp.,
Aculus spp., Amblyomma spp., Argas spp., Boophilus spp., Brevipalpus spp., Bryobia praetiosa,
Chorioptes spp., Dermanyssus gallinae, Eotetranychus spp., Epitrimeruspyri, Eutetranychus
spp., Eriophyes spp., Hemitarsonemus spp., Hyalomma spp., Ixodes spp., Latrodectus mactans,
Metatetranychus spp., Oligonychus spp., Ornithodoros spp., Panonychus spp., Phyllocoptruta
oleivora, Polyphagotarsonemuslatus, Psoroptes spp., Rhipicephalus spp., Rhizoglyphus spp.,
Sarcoptes spp., Scorpio maurus, Stenotarsonemus spp., Tarsonemus spp., Tetranychus spp.,
Vasates lycopersici.;
(12)    from the class of Bivalva, for example, Dreissenaspp.;
(13)    from the order of Coleoptera, for example, Acanthoscelides obtectus, Adoretus spp.,
Agelastica alni, Agriotes spp., Amphimallon solstitialis,Anobium punctatum, Anoplophora spp.,
Anthonomus spp., Anthrenus spp., Apogonia spp., Atomaria spp., Attagenus spp., Bruchidius
obtectus, Bruchus spp., Ceuthorhynchus spp., Cleonus mendicus, Conoderus spp., Cosmopolites
spp., Costelytra zealandica, Curculio spp., Cryptorhynchus lapathi, Dermestes spp., Diabrotica
spp., Epilachna spp., Faustinus cubae, Gibbium psylloides, Heteronychus arator,Hylamorpha
elegans, Hylotrupes bajulus, Hypera postica, Hypothenemus spp., Lachnosterna consanguinea,
Leptinotarsa decemlineata, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus, Lixus spp., Lyctus spp., Meligethes
aeneus, Melolontha melolontha, Migdolus spp., Monochamus spp., Naupactus xanthographus,
Niptus hololeucus, Oryctes rhinoceros, Oryzaephilus surinamensis, Otiorrhynchus sulcatus,
Oxycetonia jucunda, Phaedon cochleariae,Phyllophaga spp., Popilliajaponica, Premnotrypes
spp., Psylliodes chrysocephala, Ptinus spp., Rhizobius ventralis, Rhizopertha dominica,
Sitophilus spp., Sphenophorus spp., Sternechus spp., Symphyletes spp., Tenebrio monitor,
Tribolium spp., Trogoderma spp., Tychius spp., Xylotrechus spp., Zabrus spp.;
(14)    from the order of Diptera, for example, Aedes spp., Anopheles spp., Bibio hortulanus,
                                                15

     WO 2011/143479                                                        PCT/US2011/036321
Calliphora erythrocephala, Ceratitis capitata, Chrysomyia spp., Cochliomyia spp., Cordylobia
anthropophaga,Culex spp., Cuterebraspp., Dacus oleae, Dermatobiahominis, Drosophilaspp.,
Fannia spp., Gastrophilus spp., Hylemyia spp., Hyppobosca spp., Hypoderma spp., Liriomyza
spp., Lucilia spp., Musca spp., Nezara spp., Oestrus spp., Oscinella frit, Pegomyia hyoscyami,
Phorbia spp., Stomoxys spp., Tabanus spp., Tannia spp., Tipula paludosa, Wohlfahrtia spp.;
(15)    from the class of Gastropoda, for example, Arion spp., Biomphalaria spp., Bulinus spp.,
Deroceras spp., Galba spp., Lymnaea spp., Oncomelania spp., Succinea spp.;
(16)    from the class of helminths, for example, Ancylostoma duodenale, Ancylostoma
ceylanicum, Acylostoma braziliensis, Ancylostoma spp., Ascaris lubricoides, Ascaris spp.,
Brugia malayi, Brugia timori, Bunostomum spp., Chabertia spp., Clonorchis spp., Cooperia
spp., Dicrocoelium spp, Dictyocaulusfilaria, Diphyllobothrium latum, Dracunculus medinensis,
Echinococcus granulosus, Echinococcus multilocularis, Enterobius vermicularis, Faciola spp.,
Haemonchus spp., Heterakis spp., Hymenolepis nana, Hyostrongulus spp., Loa Loa,
Nematodirus spp., Oesophagostomum spp., Opisthorchis spp., Onchocerca volvulus, Ostertagia
spp., Paragonimusspp., Schistosomen spp., Strongyloidesfuelleborni,Strongyloides stercoralis,
Stronyloides spp., Taenia saginata, Taenia sodium, Trichinella spiralis, Trichinella nativa,
Trichinella britovi, Trichinella nelsoni, Trichinella pseudopsiralis, Trichostrongulus spp.,
Trichuris trichuria, Wuchereria bancrofti.;
(17)    from the order of Heteroptera, for example, Anasa tristis, Antestiopsis spp., Blissus spp.,
Calocoris spp., Campylomma livida, Cavelerius spp., Cimex spp., Creontiades dilutus, Dasynus
piperis, Dichelopsfurcatus, Diconocoris hewetti, Dysdercus spp., Euschistus spp., Eurygaster
spp., Heliopeltis spp., Horcias nobile/lus, Leptocorisa spp., Leptoglossus phyllopus, Lygus spp.,
Macropes excavatus, Miridae, Nezara spp., Oebalus spp., Pentomidae, Piesma quadrata,
Piezodorus spp., Psallus seriatus, Pseudacystapersea, Rhodnius spp., Sahlbergella singularis,
Scotinophora spp., Stephanitis nashi, Tibraca spp., Triatoma spp.;
(18)    from the order of Homoptera, for example, Acyrthosipon spp., Aeneolamia spp.,
Agonoscena spp., Aleurodes spp., Aleurolobus barodensis, Aleurothrixus spp., Amrasca spp.,
Anuraphis cardui,Aonidiella spp., Aphanostigma piri,Aphis spp., Arboridia apicalis,Aspidiella
spp., Aspidiotus spp., Atanus spp., Aulacorthum solani, Bemisia spp., Brachycaudus helichrysii,
Brachycolus spp., Brevicoryne brassicae, Calligypona marginata, Carneocephalafulgida,
Ceratovacuna lanigera, Cercopidae, Ceroplastes spp., Chaetosiphon fragaefolii, Chionaspis
                                                16

     WO 2011/143479                                                        PCT/US2011/036321
tegalensis, Chlorita onukii, Chromaphisjuglandicola, Chrysomphalus ficus, Cicadulina mbila,
Coccomytilus halli, Coccus spp.,         Cryptomyzus ribis, Dalbulus spp., Dialeurodes spp.,
Diaphorina spp., Diaspis spp., Doralis spp., Drosicha spp., Dysaphis spp., Dysmicoccus spp.,
Empoasca spp., Eriosoma spp., Erythroneura spp., Euscelis bilobatus, Geococcus coffeae,
Homalodisca coagulata, Hyalopterus arundinis, Icerya spp., Idiocerus spp., Idioscopus spp.,
Laodelphax striatellus,Lecanium spp., Lepidosaphes spp., Lipaphis erysimi, Macrosiphum spp.,
Mahanarva fimbriolata, Melanaphis sacchari, Metca/fiella spp., Metopolophium dirhodum,
Monellia costalis, Monelliopsis pecanis, Myzus spp., Nasonovia ribisnigri, Nephotettix spp.,
Nilaparvata lugens, Oncometopia spp., Orthezia praelonga, Parabemisiamyricae, Paratrioza
spp., Parlatoriaspp., Pemphigus spp., Peregrinus maidis, Phenacoccus spp., Phloeomyzus
passerinii, Phorodon humuli, Phylloxera spp., Pinnaspis aspidistrae, Planococcus spp.,
Protopulvinaria pyriformis, Pseudaulacaspis pentagona, Pseudococcus spp., Psylla spp.,
Pteromalus spp., Pyrilla spp., Quadraspidiotus spp., Quesada gigas, Rastrococcus spp.,
Rhopalosiphum spp., Saissetia spp., Scaphoides titanus, Schizaphis graminum, Selenaspidus
articulatus,Sogata spp., Sogatellafurcifera,Sogatodes spp., Stictocephalafestina,Tenalaphara
malayensis, Tinocallis caryaefoliae, Tomaspis spp., Toxoptera spp., Trialeurodes vaporariorum,
Trioza spp., Typhlocyba spp., Unaspis spp., Viteus vitifolii.;
(19)    from the order of Isoptera, for example, Reticulitermes spp., Odontotermes spp.;
(20)    from the order of Lepidoptera, for example, Acronicta major, Aedia leucomelas, Agrotis
spp., Alabama argillacea,Anticarsia spp., Barathrabrassicae,Bucculatrix thurberiella,Bupalus
piniarius, Cacoecia podana, Capua reticulana, Carpocapsapomonella, Cheimatobia brumata,
Chilo spp., Choristoneurafumiferana,Clysia ambiguella, Cnaphalocerusspp., Earias insulana,
Ephestia kuehniella, Euproctis chrysorrhoea, Euxoa spp., Feltia spp., Galleria mellonella,
Helicoverpa spp., Heliothis spp., Hofmannophila pseudospretella, Homona magnanima,
Hyponomeuta padella, Laphygma spp., Lithocolletis blancardella, Lithophane antennata,
Loxagrotis albicosta, Lymantria spp., Malacosoma neustria, Mamestra brassicae, Mocis
repanda, Mythimna separata, Oria spp., Oulema oryzae, Panolis flammea, Pectinophora
gossypiella, Phyllocnistis citrella, Pieris spp., Plutella xylostella, Prodenia spp., Pseudaletia
spp., Pseudoplusia includes, Pyrausta nubilalis,Spodoptera spp., Thermesia gemmatalis, Tinea
pellionella, Tineola bisselliella, Tortrix viridana, Trichoplusia spp.;
(21)    from the order of Orthoptera, for example, Acheta domesticus, Blatta orientalis,Blattella
                                                  17

     WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
germanica, Gryllotalpa spp., Leucophaea maderae, Locusta spp., Melanoplus spp., Periplaneta
americana,Schistocerca gregaria.;
(22)    from the order of Thysanoptera, for example, Baliothrips biformis, Enneothripsflavens,
Frankliniellaspp., Heliothrips spp., Hercinothripsfemoralis,Kakothrips spp., Rhipiphorothrips
cruentatus,Scirtothripsspp., Taeniothripscardamoni, Thrips spp.;
(23)    from the class of Protozoa, for example, Eimeria spp.
EXAMPLES
        The following examples are provided to illustrate certain embodiments of the invention
and are not to be construed in any way as limiting the scope of the invention.
        Example     1 is particularly,   though not exclusively, representative      of injectable
eprinomectin / levamisole formulations according to the present invention. Example 2 provides
evidence that ivermectin-containing formulations according to the present invention are stable
and safe in animals. Finally, example 3 provides extensive, though not sole evidence of the
significant amount of time and effort that was invested in developing the inventive formulations.
Example 1 - Development of stable injectable levamisole / eprinomectin formulations
        Levamisole is water soluble and eprinomectin is nearly water insoluble. Eprinomectin is
soluble, for example, in methanol, ethanol, ethyl acetate, and dimethyl acetate (DMA).
Applicants are aware of no existing combination injectable formulation comprising eprinomectin
and levamisole. The development work fully disclosed and described herein out was carried out
to provide a formulation in which the anthelmintics eprinomectin and levamisole (as the
phosphate) could be combined in a formulation having physical and chemical properties suitable
for injection.
        Stress studies have identified at least two formulations that are stable and suitable in
terms of irritancy.
        Constituents of these formulations are provided in Table 1.
Table 1: Formulation of Eprinomectin levamisole Injection
                                                 18

     WO 2011/143479                                                             PCT/US2011/036321
Ingredient                             Formulation 1         Formulation 2      Function
                                           % w/v                % w/v
                                        Composition           Composition
Eprinomectin                        0.70*                 0.70*                Active
Levamisole Phosphate                22.3*                 22.3*                Active
BHT                                 0.1                   0.1                   Antioxidant
Dimethylacetamide                   5.0                   5.0                   Solvent
Methyl Paraben                      0.15                  0.15                  Preservative
Polysorbate 80                      5.0                   -                     Surfactant
Cremophor EL                        -                     5.0                   Surfactant
Water For Injection                 q.s. to 100%                               Vehicle
*Corrected for potency
Stability of both formulations has been demonstrated in real-time storage conditions.
Table 2: Stability of Eprinomectin Levamisole Injection Formulation 1
       Batch No.                                       2-8 0 C             25 0 C / 60% RH
                                                       Control     1 month      2 month      3 month
                           Description                 VLYS         VLYS         VLYS         VLYS
                                                        100.9        99.6         98.0         98.6
Formulation 1.             Assay of Eprinomectin
                           Assay of Levamisole          98.0         97.9         98.3         99.2
                           Phosphate
VLYS: Very Light Yellow Solution
LYS:    Light Yellow Solution
YS:     Yellow Solution
Table 3: Stability of Eprinomectin Levamisole Injection Formulation 2
       Batch No.                                       2-8 0 C             25 0 C / 60% RH
                                                    19

      WO 2011/143479                                                        PCT/US2011/036321
                                                     Control   1 month      2 month     3 month
                          Description                VLYS       VLYS         VLYS        VLYS
                                                      101.1      100.0         98.0       99.6
Formulation 2.            Assay of Eprinomectin
                          Assay of Levamisole
                                                      98.9       99.3          98.8       100.3
                          Phosphate
VLYS: Very Light Yellow Solution
LYS:   Light Yellow Solution
YS:    Yellow Solution
Table 4: Administration of Treatments
        Both formulations were also tested in cattle studies to determine the absorption
characteristics and injection site acceptability. Twenty-one Hereford Cross 15 month old female
cattle were selected for the study from a larger group held at the study site. On Day -1 the study
animals were individually identified with uniquely numbered ear tags.
        The study animals were weighed and ranked according to body weight. The animal with
the median body weight (305 kg) was selected as the control animal. The remaining animals
were assigned to two groups of ten by restrictive randomization based on body weight.
Treatments were administered as per Table 4.
                                                  20

     WO 2011/143479                                                  PCT/US2011/036321
       Animals in Group 1 were treated with Formulation 1 at a dose rate of 1ml/35kg body
 Animal ID          Group ID         Product/ BN      Weight (kg)        Dose (ml)
 2                                                    324.0              9.3
 3                                                    294.0              8.4
 5                                   Formulation      334.0              9.5
 6                                   1                315.0              9.0
 9                  1                                 343.0              9.8
  11                                                  297.0              8.5
  12                                 BN:08            285.0              8.1
  13                                                  289.0              8.3
  14                                                  302.0              8.6
 20                                                   313.0              8.9
  1                                                   270.0              7.7
 4                                                    303.0              8.7
 7                                   Formulation      288.0              8.2
 8                                   2                317.0              9.1
  10                2                                 326.0              9.3
  16                                                  331.0              9.5
  17                                 BN:09            291.0              8.3
  18                                                  309.0              8.8
  19                                                  296.0              8.5
 21                                                   340.0              9.7
  15                3                Control          305.0              ------
weight. Animals in Group 2 were treated with Formulation 2 at a dose rate of 1ml/35kg
bodyweight. All calculated doses were rounded up to the nearest 0.2ml. The control animal
received no treatment.
                                            21

      WO 2011/143479                                                       PCT/US2011/036321
       Treatments were administered by subcutaneous injection to the anterior half of the neck,
using a new sterile 18 gauge 25mm needle for each injection. The area for injection was clipped
and swabbed with 70% isopropyl alcohol prior to injection. The injection sites were inspected
and palpated at 24, 48 and 96 hours post treatment and on Days 10, 21 and 35. All observations
were recorded.
The degree of injection site swelling was recorded according to the following scale:
                0 = no edema
                1 = very slight edema (barely noticed)
                2 = slight edema (well defined by definite raising)
                3 = moderate edema (raised approximately 1mm)
                4 = (raised more than 1 mm and extending beyond the area of injection)
The maximum length, width and height of any visible or palpable site reaction was determined
using calipers, and all findings were recorded.
Table 5: Injection Site Reactions Formulation 1
                            Formulation 1 Batch no:08
Animal     Weight      Dose       24       48       96      Day     Day     Day
  ID         (kg)      (mL)     hours    hours    hours      10      21      35
    2       324.0       9.3        4       4         4        4       1       0
    3       294.0       8.4        4       2         1        0       0       0
    5       334.0       9.5        4        1        1        0       0       0
    6       315.0       9.0        4       4         4        4       3       1
    9       343.0       9.8        0        0        1        0       0       0
   11       297.0       8.5        4        3        1        1       0       0
   12       285.0       8.1        4       2         1        1       0       0
   13       289.0       8.3        4       4         3        2       0       0
   14       302.0       8.6        4       4         1        1       0       0
   20       313.0       8.9        4       4         1        0       0       0
                                                22

      WO 2011/143479                                                    PCT/US2011/036321
Table 6: Injection Site Reactions Formulation 2
                            Formulation 2 Batch no:09
Animal     Weight      Dose      24        48       96      Day     Day   Day
   ID        (kg)      (mL)    hours     hours    hours      10      21   35
     1      270.0       7.7       4         4        3        1       0    0
    4       303.0       8.7       4         4        1        0       0    0
    7       288.0       8.2       4         4       4         0       0    0
    8       317.0       9.1       4         4       4         3       0    0
    10      326.0       9.3       4         4        0        0       0    0
    16      331.0       9.5       4         1        0        0       0    0
    17      291.0       8.3       4         4       4         1       0    0
    18      309.0       8.8       4         3        1        0       0    0
    19      296.0       8.5       1         1        1        0       0    0
   21       340.0       9.7       4         4        1        1       0    0
Blood plasma profile
        On Day -1, (3 Jan 2010) five animals were randomly selected from each of the two
treated groups for blood sampling as illustrated in Table 7:
Table 7: Eprinomectin Levamisole Blood Sampling Schedule
          Blood Plasma Group 1                          Blood Plasma Group 2
                      3                                            1
                     11                                           10
                     12                                           16
                     14                                           18
                     20                                           21
                                                 23

     WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
        These ten animals plus the untreated control were blood sampled via jugular venipuncture
on Day -1 prior to treatment. These same animals were blood sampled at 1, 2, 6, 12, 24, 48 and
96 hours post treatment, and then at Day 10, Day 21 and Day 35 after treatment. Blood samples
were collected by caudal venipuncture into green top heparinised Vacutainer's, and spun in a
centrifuge for ten minutes at 3000 RPM. Plasma for each animal was decanted into individually
labeled plasma vials and frozen within two hours of collection.
        At the conclusion of the animal phase of the study (Day 35) the frozen plasma samples
were submitted to an analytical laboratory for Eprinomectin and Levamisole analysis. Samples
from 0, 1, 2, 6, 12, 24 and 48 hours were analyzed for Levamisole concentration. Samples from
0, 48, 96 hours and 10, 20 and 35 days were analyzed for Eprinomectin concentration.
        The mean eprinomectin and levamisole pharmacokinetic profiles in cattle plasma after
treatment with the two formulations are presented in the figures below. Results demonstrate that
both formulations resulted in almost identical plasma profiles for both levamisole and
eprinomectin. FIGs. 2 and 3 summarize the data.
Table 8: Excipients used in the Eprinomectin / Levamisole injectable formulations
Ingredient               CAS No.        Formulation 1      Formulation 2     Function
                                             % w/v              % w/v
                                         Composition        Composition
BHT                         128-37-0   0.1                0.1                Antioxidant
Dimethylacetamide           127-19-5   5.0                5.0                Solvent
Methyl Paraben              99-76-3    0.15               0.15               Preservative
Polysorbate 80             9005-65-6   5.0                -                  Surfactant
Cremophor EL              61796-12-6   -                  5.0                Surfactant
Water For Injection        7789-20-0   q.s. to 100%       q.s. to 100%       Vehicle
Formulation Development
        A number of solvents were evaluated including Glycerol Formal, 2-Pyrol, Propylene
Glycol, Miglyol 840 and DMA from 2 - 20% (see Example 2). The preferred batches contained
a surfactant such as Cremophor EL, Polysorbate 80 and modified Lecithin in the range 2 - 5%.
                                                 24

     WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
Vehicles trialed included Water, Glycerol Formal and modified vegetable oil. The combination
of 5% DMA and 5% CREMAPHOR EL or POLYSORBATE 80 was demonstrated to be quite
useful for the levamisole / ivermectin formulations according to the present invention.
        Formulations comprising eprinomectin instead of ivermectin were evaluated using
CREMAPHOR EL and several other surfactants. The stability data provided above indicated that
eprinomectin performed at least as well as ivermectin. A series of batches were prepared
comparing the addition of BHT as an antioxidant to batches without antioxidant. Stress studies
showed a significant improvement in stability of the actives when BHT was added to the
formulation. Finally, Methyl Paraben was selected for a preservative as the marketed product
may be provided as a multi-dose pack.
Physicochemical Properties
        Assessment of developmental formulation batches was generally performed on the basis
of appearance, including color, of the solution and the assay content of both of the active
ingredients. The description of appearance for the proposed formulation is that of a clear light
yellow to yellow solution. The physicochemical properties investigated during the stress study
monitored the assay of the two actives. Density and pH values were also monitored. Density was
in the range 1.05 - 1.10 and pH in the range 3.0 - 5.0. Visual assessment shows the product to be
flowable with a water-like appearance.
        The bulk of the WFI was added to the main manufacturing vessel and methyl paraben,
the water soluble preservative, was added first to maintain microbial resistance. Levamisole
Phosphate was added next as it water soluble and at a relatively high concentration. In a separate
vessel, eprinomectin and BHT were dissolved in DMA and the surfactant added next. This
combination was then added to the bulk aqueous phase with mixing. Eprinomectin is not water
soluble, so this carried the eprinomectin into and maintained it in solution. Finally the batch was
made to volume with WFI and mixed. All mixing was accomplished using simple mechanical
agitation. Heat was only required to dissolve the Methyl Paraben, and once all soluble
components were dissolved, the WFI was cooled before further processing occurs.
Example 2
        Preliminary work focused on stability of ivermectin / levamisole-containing formulations,
though subsequent studies (summarized in Example 1) shifted to the related macrocyclic lactone
eprinomectin. As mentioned, eprinomectin offers a significant advantage in terms of short
                                                 25

      WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
withdrawal time due its relatively low milk to plasma partition ratio. Table 9 summarizes batches
2-13.
Table 9. Formulation summary: IVM is ivermectin and LEV is levamisole phosphate
  Batch   Batch            Formulation           Source and          Purpose, method of
  No      size                                   batch number of     manufacture and comments
                                                 APIs
                                      %w/v       IVM      LEV
  02      100m            Ivermectin  0.70       Hisun    Guilin     Purpose: Preliminary
          L          Levamisole PO 4  22.3       080340   020903     screening trial to determine a
                     Glycerol Formal  20.0                           suitable base for Ivermectin
                      Benzyl Alcohol  1.0                            and Levamisole Phosphate
                      Polysorbate 80  5.0
                                WFI   to 100
  03      100m            Ivermectin  0.70       Hisun    Guilin                  55'C 5 days
          L          Levamisole PO 4  22.3       080340   020903               Assay compared to
                               DMA    2.0                                              initial
                      Cremophor EL 2.0                                      IVM            LEV
                                WFI   to 100                          02      78.0%            94.4%
  04      100m            Ivermectin  0.70       Hisun    Guilin      03     101.2%            94.1%
          L          Levamisole PG 4  22.3       080340   020903      04      96.5%            86.3%
                    Propylene Glycol  20.0                            06      99.6%            99.7%
                      Benzyl Alcohol  1.5                             07      98.0%            94.5%
                                WFI   to 100                          08     125.3%            96.1%
  06      100m            Ivermectin  0.70       Hisun    Guilin
          L          Levamisole PG 4  22.3       080340   090601     Result: Batch 03 (07) batch 06
                        Miglyol 840   20.0                           most suitable formulations.
                       Phospholipon   1.8                            Batch 03, a solution preferred
                     Glycerol Formal  2.2                            over batch 06 an emulsion.
                                WFI   to 100
                                                26

    WO 2011/143479                                                PCT/US2011/036321
07      100m           Ivermectin  0.70    Hisun  Guilin
(Repe   L          Levamisole PO 4 22.3    070403 090601
at 03)                      DIA    2.0
                    Cremophor EL   2.0
                              WFI  to 100
08      100m           Ivermectin  0.70    Hisun  Guilin
        L          Levamisole PO 4 22.3    070403 090601
                              WFI  30.0
                       Montanide   to 100
09      100m           Ivermectin  0.70    Hisun  Guilin Purpose: Repeat batch 03
        L          Levamisole PG 4 22.3    080340 090601 using two different batches of
                            DMA    2.0                   Ivermectin
                    Cremophor EL   2.0
                              WFI  to 100                               55'C 5 days
                                                                       Percent initial
                                                                IVM           LEV
10      100m           Ivermectin  0.70    Hisun  Guilin   09      83.6%         97.9%
        L          Levamisole PG 4 22.3    070403 090601   10     58.4%          97.6%
                            DMA    2.0
                    Cremophor EL   2.0                   Result: Crystallization
                              WFI  to 100                observed.
11      100m           Ivermectin  0.70    Hisun  Guilin Purpose: Repeat batch 03 but
        L          Levamisole PG 4 22.3    080340 090601 increase surfactant and solvent
                            DIA    5.0                   levels. Use two different
                    Cremophor EL   5.0                   batches of Ivermectin.
                              WFI  to 100
                                          27

      WO 2011/143479                                                           PCT/US2011/036321
  12        100m          Ivermectin   0.70        Hisun   Guilin                    55'C 5 days
           L          Levamisole PO 4  22.3        070403  090601                   Percent initial
                               DMA     5.0                                    IVM           LEV
                       Cremophor EL    5.0                              11      85.6%          97.2%
                                 WFI   to 100                           12      93.1%          98.3%
                                                                     Result: Stability improved.
  13       300m           Ivernectin   0.70        Hisun   Guilin    Purpose: Repeat batch 12 with
           L          Levamisole PO 4  22.3        070403  090601     stress testing at 40'C and
                               DMA     5.0                            55 0 C.
                       Cremophor EL    5.0
                                 WFI   to 100                                            5 days
                                                                                     Percent initial
                                                                               IVM           LEV
                                                                       400       98.3%         99.6%
                                                                       C
                                                                       550       85.2%         97.3%
                                                                       C
                                                                     Result: Stability improved.
Example 3 -Alternative Formulations:
         The following example illustrates the significant time and effort that was invested in
developing the stable, injectable formulations according to the present invention. A person of
ordinary skill will immediately appreciate the rigorous experimentation that was, and is very
often required in order to arrive at the proper blend of actives and excipients to produce an
effective,   pharmaceutically   acceptable    formulation. Injectable    formulations      tend to be
particularly challenging to develop, as factors such as excessive viscosity and injection site
irritation can preclude the use of otherwise effective excipients (e.g. excipients which provide
good stability for the combination of active pharmaceutical ingredients).
         Pre-formulation  development efforts commenced using the hydrochloride                   salt of
Levamisole. Preliminary solubility data strongly contra-indicated the use of NMP and Glycerin
                                                  28

     WO 2011/143479                                                                 PCT/US2011/036321
as a single solvent system to solubilize Levamisole and the use of vegetable oil to solubilize the
Ivermectin. A large number of surfactants and stabilizers including CAPMUL MCM, TWEEN
80, SPAN 20, CREMAPHOR RH 40, PVP K-30 and SODIUM CMC were trialed. Also trialed
were several buffers, including phosphate and acetate salts before citrate was finally selected
based upon the desirability / stability of the resulting formulations.
        Early indications were that CAPMUL MCM (medium chain mono and diglycerides)
aqueous based formulations might provide a clinically acceptable base for injection. Batches
INJO003-01 to INJO003-11 were therefore formulated with Levamisole using either the
hydrochloride or the phosphate salts thereof (formulation compositions are summarized in Table
10). CAPMUL MCM and TWEEN 80 with a citrate buffer was the basis of this aqueous
formulation. Although considered stable at the planned storage of 2 - 8'C, unacceptable site
reactions occurred during clinical investigation.
Table 10: Formulation summary - batches INJO03-01 through INJO03-11
Batch    Batch                 Formulation              Purpose, method of manufacture and comments
No       size                              % w/v
INJ003   400mL                 Ivermectin  0.48         Puose: Preliminary screening trial to determine a
-01                      Levamisole HCl    20.0         suitable base for Ivermectin and Levamisole HCl
                           Capmul MCM      25.0
                                Tween 80   15.0
                       Tri Sodium Citrate  1.5                                 25 0 C
                               Conc. HCl   0.25 mL                    Assay compared to initial
                                    WFI    to 100                 Ivermectin     Levamisole HCl
                                                          1M          99%               98%
                                                         2M           98%               99%
                                                         4M           97%               97%
                                                         6M           95%               98%
                                                         9M           93%               97%
                                                          12M         92%               97%
                                                                               40 0 C
                                                                      Assay compared to initial
                                                                  Ivermectin     Levamisole HCl
                                                          1M          95%               95%
                                                   29

     WO 2011/143479                                                           PCT/US2011/036321
                                                   2M           91%               96%
                                                   4M           86%               92%
                                                   6M           78%               90%
                                                                         55 0C
                                                                Assay compared to initial
                                                            Ivermectin     Levamisole HC
                                                   2 wk         84%               95%
                                                   4 wk         70%               93%
INJ003 400mL                Ivermectin 0.48       Puose: Preliminary screening trial to determine a
-02                   Levamisole HCl   20.0       suitable base for Ivermectin and Levamisole HCl
                        Capmul MCM     10.0
                             Tween 80  10.0
                    Tri Sodium Citrate 2.0                               25 0 C
                            Conc. HCl  0.25 mL                  Assay compared to initial
                                 WFI   to 100               Ivermectin     Levamisole HC
                                                    1M          97%               97%
                                                   2M           95%               96%
                                                   4M           93%               97%
                                                   6M           91%               95%
                                                   9M           90%               96%
                                                    12M         87%               96%
                                                                         400C
                                                                Assay compared to initial
                                                            Ivermectin     Levamisole HC
                                                    1M          90%               94%
                                                   2M           83%               91%
                                                   4M           79%               91%
                                                   6M           75%               88%
                                                                         55oC
                                                                Assay compared to initial
                                                            Ivermectin     Levamisole HC
                                                   2 wk         74%               89%
                                                   4 wk         69%               83%
INJ003 10OOmL               Ivermectin 0.48       Puose: Batch submit for site reaction study
                                               30

     WO 2011/143479                                                          PCT/US2011/036321
-03                   Levamisole HCl   16.11
                        Capmul MCM     25.0
                             Tween 80  15.0                             25 0 C
                    Tri Sodium Citrate 1.5                     Assay compared to initial
                            Conc. HCl  0.25 mL             Ivermectin     Levamisole HC
                                 WFI   to 100      1M          98%              99%
                                                   2M          94%              96%
                                                   4M          94%              99%
INJ003 500 mL               Ivermectin 0.48       Puose: Same formula as batch INJ003-01
-04                   Levamisole HCl   20.0
                        Capmul MCM     25.0
                             Tween 80  15.0                             25 0 C
                    Tri Sodium Citrate 1.5                     Assay compared to initial
                            Conc. HCl  0.25 mL             Ivermectin     Levamisole HC
                                 WFI   to 100      1M          97%              100%
                                                   2M          97%              99%
                                                   4M          96%              98%
INJ003 500 mL               Ivermectin 0.48       Puose: Same formula as batch INJ003-01
-05                   Levamisole HCl   20.0
                        Capmul MCM     25.0
                             Tween 80  15.0                             25 0 C
                    Tri Sodium Citrate 1.5                     Assay compared to initial
                            Conc. HCl  0.25 mL             Ivermectin     Levamisole HC
                                 WFI   to 100      1M          89%              79%
                                                   2M          92%              81%
                                                   4M          87%              77%
INJ003 500 mL               Ivermectin 0.48       Purose: Same formula as batch INJ003-01 - with
-06                   Levamisole HCl   20.0       parabens
                        Capmul MCM     25.0
                             Tween 80  15.0
                    Tri Sodium Citrate 1.5                              25 0C
                        Methylparaben  0.18                    Assay compared to initial
                        Propylparaben  0.20                Ivermectin     Levamisole HC
                            Conc. HCl  0.25 mL     1M          99%              99%
                                 WFI   to 100
                                               31

     WO 2011/143479                                                            PCT/US2011/036321
                                                    2M           100%              98%
                                                    4M           96%               99%
INJ003 1500 mL              Ivermectin  0.57       Purose: Batch with Levamisole P0     4 & BHT
-07                   Levamisole P0 4   20.0
                        Capmul MCM      25.0
                             Tween 80   15.0       Results: Sample kept at 55'C were separated into
                                  BHT   0.02       two layers in three weeks
                        Methylparaben   0.18
                        Propylparaben   0.20
                    Tri Sodium Citrate  1.5
                         Propyl gallate 0.02
                            Conc. HCl   0.25 mL
                                  WFI   to 100
INJ003 1500 mL              Ivermectin  0.57       Puose: Batch with Levamisole P0      4 & nil BHT
-08                   Levamisole P0 4   20.0
                        Capmul MCM      25.0
                             Tween 80   15.0       Results: Sample kept at 55 0 C were separated into
                        Methylparaben   0.18       two layers in three weeks
                        Propylparaben   0.20
                    Tri Sodium Citrate  1.5
                         Propyl gallate 0.02
                            Conc. HCl   0.25 mL
                                  WFI   to 100
INJ003 1500 mL              Ivermectin  0.57       Puose: Batch with Levamisole P0      4 & BHT with
-09                   Levamisole P0 4   20.0       pH 4.5
                        Capmul MCM      25.0
                             Tween 80   15.0                              2-8 0 C
                                  BHT   0.03                    Assay compared to initial
                        Methylparaben   0.18                Ivermectin      Levamisole P0   4
                        Propylparaben   0.20         1M           103               104
                    Tri Sodium Citrate  1.5         2M            105               100
                         Propyl gallate 0.02        3M            100               99
                            Conc. HCl   0.25 mL
                                                32

     WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
                                  WFI   to 100      6M         103              101
                                                    9M         101              99
                                                                       25 0 C
                                                              Assay compared to initial
                                                          Ivermectin     Levamisole P0  4
                                                    1M         103              103
                                                    2M         103              99
                                                    3M         100              95
                                                    6M         101              94
                                                    9M          93              90
INJ003 1500 mL              Ivermectin  0.57       Puose: Batch with Levamisole P0   4 & BHT with
-10                   Levamisole P0 4   20.0       pH 4.0
                        Capmul MCM      25.0
                             Tween 80   15.0                           2-8 0 C
                                  BHT   0.03                  Assay compared to initial
                        Methylparaben   0.18              Ivermectin     Levamisole P0  4
                        Propylparaben   0.20        1M         103              103
                    Tri Sodium Citrate  1.5         2M         103              99
                         Propyl gallate 0.02        3M          96              102
                            Conc. HCl   0.25 mL     6M         104              102
                                  WFI   to 100      9M         100              98
                                                                       250C
                                                              Assay compared to initial
                                                          Ivermectin     Levamisole P0  4
                                                    1M         103              102
                                                    2M         103              99
                                                    3M          99              96
                                                    6M          99              94
                                                    9M          92              89
                                                33

     WO 2011/143479                                                            PCT/US2011/036321
INJ003   1500 mL               Ivermectin  0.57       Puose: Batch with Levamisole P0   4 & BHT with
-11                      Levamisole P0 4   20.0       pH 5.0
                           Capmul MCM      25.0
                                Tween 80   15.0                           2-8 0 C
                                     BHT   0.03                  Assay compared to initial
                           Methylparaben   0.18              Ivermectin     Levamisole P0  4
                           Propylparaben   0.20        1M         101              104
                       Tri Sodium Citrate  1.5         2M         102              102
                            Propyl gallate 0.02        3M         101               10
                               Conc. HCl   0.25 mL     6M         102              100
                                     WFI   to 100      9M          98              99
                                                                          25 0 C
                                                                 Assay compared to initial
                                                             Ivermectin     Levamisole P0  4
                                                       1M         102              102
                                                       2M         102              101
                                                       3M          95              96
                                                       6M          98              94
                                                       9M          97              86
INJO003/11 Method of Preparation
     1. Ivermectin was dissolved in CAPMUL MCM under stirring.
     2. To this Tween 80 was added under stirring.
     3. BHT was added to step 1 under stirring.
     4. Methyl paraben and Propyl paraben dissolved in 600ml of water under heating.
     5. Levamisole phosphate was added to step 3 under stirring at room temperature.
     6. Propyl gallate was added to step 4 under stirring.
     7. Trisodium citrate and 50% HCl solution were added to step 5 under stirring.
     8.  Step 2 was added to step 6 under stirring
     9. Adjusted the pH to around 5.00 using 20% HCl solution, if necessary.
     10. The resulting solution was made up to volume with water.
                                                   34

      WO 2011/143479                                                           PCT/US2011/036321
Table 11: Site reaction test for ivermectin / levamisole injection for cattle - INJ 0003/11
  Species:                        Bovine
  Number:                         2 animals
  Type:                          mixed
  Age:                            ~6 months
  Sex:                            either
  Weight:                         Greater than 125kg
  Source:                         Commercial farm
  Health status:                 Normal animals in good body condition.
  Special requirements:          No anthelmintic treatment in the past 4 weeks
  Medication history:             Herd-based treatments as part of normal animal
                                  husbandry practice.
  Housing and                     The study animals were maintained as a single mob
  management:                     and rotationally grazed on pasture with continuous
                                  access to water throughout the experimental period.
        Results: Two calves were treated. No sting in either animal was noted upon injection. A
site reaction occurred in both animals within 1 hour of injection, lasting for the entire 28 days of
the trial. The reaction was a slightly raised area at the point of injection getting as large as 150 x
170mm and 110 x 140mm. Such reactions would be unacceptable in a commercial farming
situation.
Example 4 - Formulations including other macrocyclic lactones
         Tests were conducted to determine whether the invention would be able to be used as a
vehicle for delivering a wider range of macrocyclic lactone active ingredients. The test
formulations were prepared using POLYSORBATE 80 as the surfactant of choice according to
Table 12.
                                                   35

     WO 2011/143479                                                       PCT/US2011/036321
Table 12. Formulation ingredients
Ingredient                              % w/v          Function
                                    Composition
Macrocyclic lactone active       0.70*                 Active
Levamisole Phosphate             22.3*                 Active
BHT                              0.1                   Antioxidant
Dimethylacetamide                5.0                   Solvent
Methyl Paraben                   0.15                  Preservative
Polysorbate 80                   5.0                   Surfactant
Water For Injection              q.s. to 100%          Vehicle
*Corrected for potency
        The results demonstrated that abamectin, moxidectin and doramectin are suitable
macrocyclic lactones for formulations according to the instant invention. When compared to the
eprinomectin/levamisole formulation, the general physical parameters are very similar.
 Table 13a: Formulations of various macrocyclic lactones levamisole
              Eprinomectin/Levamisole        Abamectin/Levamisole
                           Inj.                          Inj.
B.No.                  SOW 21-08                     SOW 21-23
Condition      2-8 0 C    25 0 C    40 0C    2-8 0 C    25 0C    40 0C
Storage       5 Days     5 Days    5 Days      5          5        5
Period                                       Days       Days     Days
Description   *          *         *        *          *        *
Wt/mL         1.0843     1.0843    1.0843   1.0831     1.0831   1.0831
Viscosity     3.5 cP     3.5 cP   3.5 cP    3.3 cP     3.3 cP   3.3 cP
pH            4.22       4.21     4.06      4.17       4.16     4.05
Table 13b: Formulations of various macrocyclic lactones levamisole
              Moxidectin/Levamisole         Doramectin/Levamisole
                                                   36

     WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
                           Inj.                       Inj.
B.No.                  SOW 21-24                  SOW 21-25
Condition      2-8 0 C    25 0 C  40 0 C  2-8 0 C    25 0C   40 0 C
Storage           5         5       5       5          5       5
Period          Days      Days    Days    Days       Days    Days
Description    *         *       *       *          *       *
Wt/mL          1.0825    1.0825  1.0825  1.0837     1.0837  1.0837
Viscosity      4.2 cP    4.2 cP  4.2 cP  3.3 cP     3.3 cP  3.3 cP
pH             4.15      4.14    4.02    4.13       4.12    4.01
* Clear very light yellow solution
Example 5 - Other Formulations
        Formulations including novel avermectins would be prepared in accordance with Table
12, and could include the compounds and amounts recited in Table 14. The formulations could
also include any one of the avermectins or avermectin monosaccharides, modified in the 4' or 4"
position, described in US 7,704,961, US 7,521,429, US 2006-0105970 Al, US 7,678,740, US
7,632,820, US 7,678,773, US 7,605,134, and US 6,933,260 (each to Merial).
Table 14. Amounts and identities of novel avermectin compounds
Avermectin                                                           % w/v Composition
4"-diallylaminosulfonyloxy-avermectin B1                          0.5 - 0.9
4"-(2-Hydroxyethylaminosulfonyloxy)-avermectin B1                 0.5 - 0.9
4"-dipropargylaminosulfonyloxy-avermectin B 1                     0.5 - 0.9
4"-bis(cyanomethyl)aminosulfonyloxy-avermectin B1                 0.5 - 0.9
4"-Dicyanomethylaminosulfonyloxy-avermectin B 1                   0.5 - 0.9
4"-pyrrolidinosulfonyloxy-avermectin B1                           0.5 - 0.9
4"-benzoylaminosulfonyloxy-avermectin B1                          0.5 - 0.9
4"-epi-sulfamoyloxy-avermectin B1                                 0.5 - 0.9
                                                 37

       WO 2011/143479                                                          PCT/US2011/036321
4"-methylaminosulfonyloxy-avermectin B1                           0.5  - 0.9
4"-ethylaminosulfonyloxy-avermectin B 1                           0.5  - 0.9
4"-sulfamoyloxy-avermectin B1                                     0.5-0.9
4"-allylaminosulfonyloxy-avermectin B1                            0.5  - 0.9
Any dimeric avermectin                                            0.5-0.9
Any hetero-dimeric avermectin/milbemycin
Any 4" substituted avermectin                                     0.5-0.9
Any 4'-4" dually substituted avermectin                           0.5  - 0.9
Any avermectin monosaccharide                                     0.5-0.9
Example 6 - Determination of the chemical residues and depletion profiles for eprinomectin and
levamisole following subcutaneous injection of cattle.
         These studies were conducted to determine the residue levels and depletion profile of
eprinomectin and levamisole in the tissue of cattle, following the subcutaneous injection of an
injectable formulation according to the instant invention, containing 7 g/L eprinomectin and 223
g/L levamisole phosphate. Thirty Short Horn cross cattle were sourced from a commercial farm.
On the day of treatment (Day 0) all cattle were weighed, and then, based on live weight, 24
animals were allocated to treatment and tissue collection groups. The treatment groups and
sampling times are presented in Table 15.
Table 15. Treatment groups, active ingredients and dose rates
   Treatment      Active ingredient            Dose rate       Number of cattle treated
   group          concentration                                (tissue collection times)
    1. Untreated  -                            -               2 cattle (2 on Day 21)
   2. Test Item   7 g/L eprinomectin +         1.25 mL/35 kg   20 cattle (5 on each of Days
                  223 g/L levamisole phosphate                 21, 28, 35 and 42)
   3. Test Item   7 g/L eprinomectin +         1.25 mL/35 kg   2 cattle
   contingency    223 g/L levamisole phosphate
         Residues. The untreated cattle were removed from the site of treatment before application
of the test item. A single injection was made on Day 0 using pre-calibrated plastic graduated
disposable syringes and 18 G x 1" hypodermic needles. The calculated dose was administered
                                                 38

      WO 2011/143479                                                        PCT/US2011/036321
subcutaneously into the neck (20 cm above and on an angle of approximately 45 degrees from
the shoulder). The following biological samples were collected on Days 21, 28, 35 and 42, and
were submitted to the analytical laboratory for residue analysis: injection site, muscle (latissimus
dorsi), kidney, liver and peri-renal fat. Both primary and reserve samples were stored frozen
until shipment of the "primary samples" to the lab. "Reserve" samples remained in frozen
storage. No detectable concentrations of eprinomectin nor levamisole were found in any tissues
from untreated cattle indicating no contamination at the field or analytical phases. Statistical
analyses and withholding periods were calculated. No adverse effects were noted in any of the
treated cattle for the duration of the study.
Table 16. Study design
    Parameter                Description
    Number                   24
    Species                  Bovine
    Breed                   Short Horn cross (Hereford x Friesian dams, Short Horn sires)
    Sex                     Females and castrated males
    Age                     Approximately 8 Months
    Body weight Range       200-246 kg
    Condition               Excellent condition, healthy
         The field study was conducted according to the details outlined in Table 16. In this GLP
tissue residue study, twenty (20) treated cattle and two (2) untreated control cattle were
sacrificed for tissue collection following the subcutaneous injection of a developmental
parasiticide. Two (2) further "contingency" animals were treated and managed with the treated
mob. All animals were chosen from a mob of thirty (30) cattle. Upon arrival at the research
facility, all cattle were already individually identified with an ear tag with a unique number in
their left ear so it was unnecessary to remove that tag and/or replace it with another. On the day
of treatment (Day 0) all cattle were weighed and ranked from highest to lowest based on live
weight. In order to keep the live weight range as narrow as possible, the heaviest four and
lightest two animals from the 30 potential study animals were removed from the study. Labelled
discs (20 x treated, 2 x contingency and 2 x untreated) were drawn randomly from a box and
assigned to each animal as per ranking, in order of drawing. This meant that the cattle were
randomly allocated to treatment groups (treated or untreated). Slaughter days were randomly
allocated to treated cattle in blocks of four. Average live weights for the treatment group by
collection day are shown in Table 17.
                                                  39

      WO 2011/143479                                                       PCT/US2011/036321
Table 17. Average live weight of each tissue collection day for treated and untreated cattle
    Treatment                          Collection day
    Group
                         0        21          28          35      42
    Untreated                    223
    Treated                      231         228         227     227
    Contingency        215
         Cattle that were treated received a white uniquely numbered tag in their right ear while
the untreated control cattle received a red uniquely numbered tag in their right ear. Contingency
animals received a blue numbered tag in their right ear. Treatment details are presented in Table
18.
Table 18. Active ingredient, dose rates and cattle numbers in treatment groups in accordance
with ACVAM guidelines for maximum allowable residues in animal meat, edible offal and fat
tissue
  Treatment          Active ingredient               Dose rate       Number of cattle
  group              concentration
  1. Untreated       -                                                        2
  2. Test Item       7 g/L eprinomectin and    1.25mL/35                     20
                     223 g/L levamisole        kg
                     phosphate
  3. Contingency     7 g/L eprinomectin and    1.25mL/35                      2
                                               kg
                     223 g/L levamisole
                     phosphate
Table 19. Presents the maximum residue limits for eprinomectin (mg/kg), and levamisole
(mg/kg) limit (PQL) for eprinomectin (mg/kg) and levamisole (mg/kg) in animal meat, edible
offal and fat tissue
   Eprinomectin (mg/kg)                 Levamisole
                                         (mg/kg)
  Fat                  0.25                0.01
  Liver                 1.5                 0.1
  Kidney                0.3                0.01
  Muscle               0.05                0.01
                                                   40

       WO 2011/143479                                                                              PCT/US2011/036321
Table 20. Limit of quantitation (LOQ), limit of detection (LOD) and practical quantitation limit
(PQL) for eprinomectin (mg/kg) and levamisole (mg/kg) in animal meat, edible offal and fat
tissue
   Eprinomectin (mg/kg)                                                     Levamisole (mg/kg)
  LOD LOQ PQL                                                                 LOD LOQ PQL
  Fat tissue                       0.001         0.005        0.01         0.001          0.005   0.01
  Edible offal &                   0.001         0.005       0.01         0.002           0.006   0.01
  meat
Table 21. Eprinomectin B 1a and levamisole concentrations in liver tissue
                                                              Eprnnmedn Bl~a      gg                  L~rmi;.A  (mngkg)
  E>(CTa        Ttrd                                                           (UnTredd         (Coreced)       (UnTg!reeted)
                                     21IUTC                              L0         LOD             LOD                LOD
                         2   2W              UTC                 <LD                LOD             LCD             K:LOD
          -           21      Eprame'n)Uev. iso'e                                  022
      4            21         EeomeLetinanvaioe                 0.15                   6            L                   oQ
                                                           5    E024                   4            LOQ             < LOQ
                        21    Epnmnmeeniermise                   .c  n                                     LOQ      COQ
                                prmt                                               $03 (11.i        LQ            L: LOQ
              S    2          Epameleaai
                              9   reeme& tin    moe '04       0   1,A1       ~     04
                                                                                   1,11           LOQ:LQ
                                                                                                    LOD          :LQ:LQ
                                                                                                                    <LQ
            1      28         Eprenomrne          so              D4              '44             vLCQ                 LQ
                                8
                              Ep~eeeLeODe                        LL                                 LOD<'              LOD
                      1                   Eprme         i9 LtDl                                                        LOQ
                      11     5   ptomet~eand                  <LjQ.              < LoQ              L"Q             4: LOQ
         E4   35           .E'psamm eLevasic c9&C19                                                 LCD                LOD
                 1    3       Epreevme:n.eamsoe                 0.1               01                LOD             <LOD
                                 Epreoeeyaunsoe                 :LD                   lD            LOD                LOD
                                                                 3                      5           LCD            : LOD
                           4    Epreomeetim/eai:isole                                               LLOD:L J  LDL              <L LOQ
                                                                                                                                    L
                   4              ELtOtLea:is1e<                       D           LOD              L Q                LQQ
                          42     Epraemendevsle              < LOD                  LOD             LOQ                LQ
                              EpriumenLeaise                     LOD                                LLD         LQ        <LOQ
     22            42               Ev                           LOD                LOD             LOD              :LOD
                                                                   41

      WO 2011/143479                                                                                             PCT/US2011/036321
Table 22. Eprinomectin Bla and levamisole concentrations in kidney tissue
                                                                      EriLmediu       Ula (mnsp)                   Lesmmsde (nga
                                E(C ofrrnd)                                                (Uhnce rrwred)   (Co rrtded)      (Ucorrcted!
       a          21                     UTC                                  Lo               LOD               LOD                 QOD
          -       21                     UTC                     LOD,      e:LOD        K LOD.    LOD      <LOD , LOD          LOD,      LOD
                  21                                                                                             LOD                 LOD
         4         21                   Eprnda Lamnik                  0.            C.12-.                      LOD                 LOD
            5     21         Epiaomech       Iey\nevamle                     65LOD                                                   LD
                  21                                                EQ                         LOQ             o LOD              N:LOD
     7            21            Egmmenliiee                    eLOQ e:LOQ                 LOQ. x L OQ LOD , LOD             eLOD, L0D
        \1           2S        Ennmechaeamse                           :                       LOQ               LOD              N LOD
                      2                                                       5                W                 LOD              c:LOD
                                                                                                                 LOD               :LOD
                                    i2ectmera eaisak                   : LOD                 : LOD             : LOD                       LOD
                                                                         LOD                            LODD                LOD        L LOD
      is          3S         Epri namectnieiamnsle                       1: LOD                   LDD            LOD
   ,4              35        Erne     en        zsmish              :    LQx                   LOQ             s:LOD                 L: LooD
                        15au-7 35 EDeen/emsk                             LOQ                   LOQD              LOD                 LCD
   17             35          Epame/eaik                       eLOD,        ' LOD       eLOD,      LOD       LOD.LODD
                                                                                                                    eLOD    eDDLOD     e LOD
                  42                                                   ELOD                             LOD          LOD           :LOD
                  4               EsmmcLemac-la                          LOD                 0: LOD            vLOD               o: LOD
                  42                                                     LOD                 - LOD               LOD                 LOD
             21   42         Ernmelvnsl                                  LO I        OD                          LOD              a:LOD
            22        4         Etnesten LevamsI                         LOD                 &LOD                LOD              <LOD
Table 23. Eprinomectin Bla and levamisole concentrations in injection site tissue
                                                                      Eprnnmecna          (m..t:                   Leajnle rm::4yk
 Ear Tag       Intervl                 Fridu&                                                       I          qrs eaed      (til cuxne Tdcb
       1          21                     UTC                          c LOD                    LOD               LOD               : LOD
        2         21                           UTC                       LOD                   LOD             <LOD                  LOD
                  21        gmom    > 5LtaievamiLe P                      12                  I2                 LOQ                   LfOQ
             4    21                     IgameaLaei                           9     G15               a         :l5   LOD         v:LOD
         5        21                                   ime3vmm                     LOD             L OD          LOD                 C LOD
               6    21   E         ireenl1eam*eA                         LOQ-:                 LQ:               LOD                 < LOD
       7          21                                                     LOD                   LOD               LOD                 LOD
                           2     p                               L              OQ            D L         Q LD,         D     LOD         LOD
                         9   rkgomenm Ltevamsi                           LC PL                                  : LOD          L :LOD
             0    28         E mam   nafexme e nIse R CLQQ                                  !:OQ               4:LOD              v:LOD
                           r8Erinmen/Levaisode                         :LOD                    LOD               LOD                 LOD
 2                         EimeentleannseL -- LOQ : LQ                                                       v: LOD                   L0D
      3               5       Ene           Levam                        LOD                   LOD            a LOD                  LOD
                            14     5    gemmnr~vaicoos00                                     0156                LOD              c LOD
      5           S5         E51mampeLev--amie L 'SLOQ                                        :LOQ             C:LOD               :LOD
                               Ernomectnnlevamnsal                    eLOQ                     LOQ             4:LOD               -:LOD
                             z7 35          Eprimetlevamisale         N:LOD                  :LOD                LOD                 LOD
                  42                                           ,LOD CD                    LD,     LD          LOD.LOD          LOD :OD
         19       42                         EpnaDetmaramsde                   LOD               t L             LOD                  UL
   20             42            e                                        LOD                   LOD               LOD                 LOD
       21         42                                                   LLOD                           LOD        LOD                 LOD
       ?          42              Einxmeecnn evmaae              -:      LOD                   L                 LOD                 LOD
                                                                          42

      WO 2011/143479                                                             PCT/US2011/036321
Table 24. Eprinomectin Bla and levamisole concentrations in peri-renal tissue of treated and
untreated cattle
                                                       Erinm   31nBl
                                                                  (Mg~kv)          Le-valmnile (Mg/kg
              2UTC
              -C:                                                    LCID       :LD                 LOD
                                  C:OD                               LOD          LCLD            sLOD
              2Q                                                                  LOD               LOD
                       4Deni                 ee      L                            LD                LD
                       Eram:LeVami                   LD              LCD       a: LOD:              LOD
                                               S21   LLOD                         LOD               LOD
                       Ern               i           LOD             LOD          LOD               LOD
      8       IS          n3 :Ehan!Levam o         LD
                                                    00 L0D        LOD%:LOD    LOD, -:LCD        :      LOD
              2        EprmamectnLevamsale                           LOD          LOD             s LOD
                             U2 Enecane*amimie       LOD                          U:LD
                                                                                  LOD               LCD
                                                     2s              LOD          LOD               LOD
                       E, iEmemmtunLevami"Ce        eC;D
                                                       O
                                                                    :LOD
                                                                        D
                                                                     IC'm
                                                                                :LOD',LO
                                                                                  LC                LO
     34       35                                                     LOD          LOD               LOD
                       5OD                                           LDO          L D
              35       Ep6
                       Epraemeen allmii E            LDD             LOD       a:LOD4               LOD
                  37 35Ermmenleaisle                eLO      OD         D         LOD               LfD
     'S8      42       EgaenLvm"e                   D,<LD         LDs    LOD :LOD. : LOD       <LOD.,: LOD
              42       E       n                     LD              LOD          LOD               LOD
              42       E                                             LOD          LOD               LOD
              42                                        D            LD:D
              42                  LELOD                              L            LOD                  D
Example 7 - Efficacy of a combination eprinomectin and levamisole injection against sucking
lice (Linognathusvituli) in cattle.
         Four species of louse have been recorded on cattle in New Zealand. Of these, the biting
louse Bovicola bovis and one of the three species of sucking louse, Linognathis vituli are
common and dual infections with L. vituli and B. bovis occur. The remaining two species of
sucking louse, Haematopinus eurysternus and Solenopotes capillatus are uncommon (Chalmers
and Charleston, 1980). The 56 day post-treatment assessment period covered at least two
complete lifecycles of the louse.
         This study was a randomized efficacy study in naturally infected animals with a negative
control group. Prior to the start of the study, a mob of suitably infected animals were identified
on a commercial grazing property located in the Waikato region of New Zealand. On Day -13
sixteen animals from the larger mob were purchased and relocated to the study site and identified
using uniquely numbered ear tags. Samples of biting and sucking lice were collected from seven
study animals and identified by the Study Investigator. On Day 0 all sixteen study animals were
                                                      43

      WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
lice counted and allocated to two groups (n=8) based on individual sucking lice counts. All study
animals were weighed and treatments were administered subcutaneously. Group 1 was treated
with the instant eprinomectin (7g/L) / levamisole phosphate (223g/L) formulation at 1mL/35kg,
and Group 2 remained untreated as the negative control group for the study. Individual lice
counts were performed on each study animal on Days 7, 13 and 48. Group 1 was counted prior to
Group 2, to ensure no transmission of lice between untreated animals and animals in the treated
group. Injection sites were inspected on Days 7, 13 and 48 post-treatment for lesions or
abnormalities.
Table 25. Treatment regime
   Group         Aninal             Treatment                    Dose                Route
       1            10        Eprinomectin/evamiso              nU 5kg           Subcutaneous
       2            10          Dectamax1injectable            InL 0kg           Subcutaneous
                                    endectocide
       3            10            Negative control               NA                   NA
         Statistical methods. The efficacy of the Investigational Veterinary Product (IVP, i.e. the
eprinomectin / levamisole injectable formulation recited above) against both sucking and biting
lice at each time point was calculated as the percent reduction in arithmetic and geometric mean
lice count on the treated group compared to the untreated control group using Equation 1 and
Equation 2, as recommended in WAAVP guidelines.
         Equation 1: Abbott's formula
                                         n in T after treatment
                Efficacy % = (<-                                      ) * 100
                                        n in Co after treatment
         Equation 2: Henderson-Tilton's formula
                           u in Co before treatment * n in T after treatment
    Efficacy % (1-                                                               ) * 100
                           n in Co after treatment * n in T before treatment
                                                  44

      WO 2011/143479                                                             PCT/US2011/036321
        Where Efficacy %      =  efficacy, n  =  mean number of lice of the relevant species, T     =
Treatment group and Co     = Control group. All statistical analyses were performed using Minitab*
for Windows Release 16.1.0 (Minitab, Inc.). Where data were considered to be normally
distributed, as determined by Levene's test of equal variance, means were compared using a Two
Sample T -Test. Data that were not normally distributed were compared using an equivalent non
parametric method. Results were considered significant at P<0.05.
        Tables 26 and 27 show arithmetic and geometric mean sucking and biting lice counts
recorded for Groups 1 and 2 throughout the study. Both biting and sucking lice were present on
all animals prior to treatment and at the termination of the study on Day 48. Both tables
incorporate the results of the statistical evaluation.
Table 26. Arithmetic and geometric mean suckling lice counts
                                       Arithmetic mean sucking lice
        Group               Day 0              Day 7                Day 13                 Day 48
          1                 36.3 3              5.1                 13.6                     123
          2                 26 8               32.3                 32,1                     19,3"
                                       Geometric mean sucking lice
        Group               Day 0              Day 7                Day 13                 Day 4S
          1                 27.6                38"                  58
          2                 246                30.6                 31.0                     16,23
ab means within the same column with the same superscript are not significantly different at p<0.05
Table 27. Arithmetic and geometric mean biting lice counts
                                        Arithmetic mean biting Lice
         Group              Day 0              Day 7                Day 13                 Day 48
           1                67.s                12.43               21.8                    17.1
           2                64,9               46.6                 419'                    26,0'
                                        Geometric mean biting Lice
        Group.              0 DDay                  7               Day 13                 Day 48
           1                605                10.5                 20.9                    15.7 a
           2                58,2'              45 9                 41,2                    25.0
ab means within the same column with the same superscript are not significantly different at p<0.05
                                                    45

     WO 2011/143479                                                        PCT/US2011/036321
        The efficacy of the IVP against sucking and biting lice are show in Tables 28 and 29.
Each table presents calculations based on Equation 1 and Equation 2. The efficacy of the IVP
against sucking lice peaked at 84% and 88%, based on arithmetic mean counts on Day 7 using
Equation 1 and Equation 2, respectively. Efficacy had declined over the subsequent two counts
to 36% and 53% by Day 48, based on Equation 1 and Equation 2, respectively. The efficacy of
the IVP against sucking lice based on geometric mean counts peaked at 88% and 89% on Day 7,
but declined to 33% and 41 % by Day 48, using the same two equations.
Table 28. Efficacy against sucking lice based on arithmetic and geometric mean lice counts
calculated using Equation 1 and Equation 2.
                       Arithmetic Efficacy Abbott's Formula sucking ice
     Group                    Day 7                     Day13                        Day 48
       2                   ---034. 8---                   0,58               -- ----0,36
                  Arithmetic Efficacy HendersonTilton's Formula sucking ice
     Group                    Day 7                     Day 13                       Day 48
       2                       0.88                       0.69                        03
                       Geometric Efficacy Abbott's Formula suck ng ice
     Group                    Day 7                     Day 13                       Day 48
       2                       0,88                       0.81                        033
                  Geometric Efficacy Henderson-Tilton's Formula sucking lice
     Group                    Day 7                     Day 13                       Day 48
       2                       0 89                       0.83                        0 41
        Efficacy based on arithmetic mean lice counts against biting lice peaked at a lower level
with the IVP achieving a maximum reduction of 73% and 74% in lice numbers, using Equation 1
and Equation 2, respectively and declined to 34% (Equation 1) and 36% (Equation 2) by Day 48.
When efficacy was calculated using the geometric mean lice counts, maximum reductions of77%
and  78%  were achieved on Day 7 and had declined to 37% and 4 0%, based on Equation 1 and
Equation 2.
                                               46

     WO 2011/143479                                                             PCT/US2011/036321
Table 29. Efficacy against biting lice based on arithmetic and geometric mean lice counts
calculated using Equation 1 and 2
                            Arithmetic Efficacy Abbott's Formula btung lice
          Group                  Day 7                     Day 13                    Day 48
             2                    0.72                      030                       0.34
                       Arthmnetic Efficacy Henderson-Tilton's Formula biting lce
          Group                  Day 7                     Day 13                    Day 48
             2                    074                       0,52                      0.36
                            Geometric Efficacy Abbt       oruabitn lce                     _____
          Group                  Day 7                     Day 13                    Day 48
            2                     0,77                      0.49                      0.37
                       Geometric Efficacy Henderson-Tilton's Formula biting bce
          Group                  Day 7                     Day 13                    Day 48
                                          0.7               0510
As expected, the IVP was more effective against sucking lice than biting lice, given that its route
of administration was by subcutaneous injection. The highest level of efficacy against sucking
lice (89%) was recorded on Day 7 compared to a 78% reduction in biting lice numbers at the
same time point. At 13 days post treatment, the highest level of efficacy against sucking lice was
83% compared to 52% against biting lice.
Example 8 - Safety of eprinomectin/levamisole formulations
        Thirty male Hereford x Friesian cattle, each weighing between 105-123kgs, were treated
according to preceding examples. The animals were healthy and had not been treated with a
macrocyclic lactone or levamisole within 3 months prior to Study Day 0. One group received the
1x concentration of eprinomectin and levamisole phosphate (see Table 18) administered by
subcutaneous injection, while the other group received 3x this concentration. Animals were
monitored for pain and swelling, and the results indicated the eprinomectin / levamisole injection
is safe to administer the recommended dose, or at least up to 3x the recommended dose (for
example, in the event of an accidental overdose).
Example 9. Fecal egg count reduction efficacy of a subcutaneous combination eprinomectin and
levamisole injection against a natural infection of gastrointestinal nematodes in cattle.
                                                  47

     WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
        This study was a randomized fecal egg count reduction field efficacy study in animals
carrying a natural infection, and included positive and negative control groups for comparison.
Seven days prior to commencement of the study, ten individual unidentified fecal samples were
collected from the paddock and individual fecal egg counts were conducted to confirm infection.
Four days prior to commencement of the study, individual fecal samples were collected per
rectum from 60 animals otherwise meeting the inclusion criteria. Fecal egg counts (FECs) and a
pooled larval culture were performed. Forty-five animals with positive FECs were selected for
the study and randomly allocated to three groups each of 15 animals based on FEC. They
remained at pasture in a single mob on the source farm for the duration of the study.
        On Day 0, the animals were weighed and a fecal sample was collected from each animal
per rectum for individual FECs and a pooled larval culture. Group 1 was treated with the IVP,
Group 2 was treated with Control Product (CP) and Group 3 remained untreated as the negative
control. Treated animals were observed at 30 minutes and 2 hours after treatment. On Days 14,
16 and 28 post-treatment, fecal samples were collected per rectum for individual FECs and
pooled group larval cultures. No sample was collected from Animal #60 (Group 3) on Day 14.
Injection sites of animals in Group 1 were examined on Days 14 and 28. Further samples were
due to be collected on days 42 and 56 but the study was concluded after day 28 due to evidence
of nematode resistance to macrocyclic lactone anthelmintics. After the conclusion of the study,
the study animals were treated with an oral abamectin, oxfendazole and levamisole anthelmintic
(MATRIX C HI-MIN; Merial Ancare).
        Randomization Procedure.FECs were determined for 60 animals on Day -4. Fourteen
animals were excluded for negative FECs and one animal with a FECs of 1050 eggs per gram
was excluded. The remaining 45 animals with positive FECs (range 50-550 eggs per gram) were
selected for the study. They were ranked in ascending order of FECs and blocked into blocks of
3 animals. A random number was allocated to each animal using Microsoft Excel random
number generation. The animals were ranked in ascending order of random number within each
block. The animal with the lowest random number in each block was allocated to Group 1, the
next to Group 2 and the highest to Group 3. Each of the three groups comprised 15 animals and
had a similar average FECs.
        Blinding/masking procedure. Laboratory staff performing FECs and group coprocultures
were advised which group each animal was in after Day 0, but were not aware of the treatment
                                               48

     WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
allocated to each group. Forty-five Friesian/Jersey cross cattle, aged 10 months, female, and
weighing on average 158.6 kg (range 106.5-208.5 kg) on Day 0, were used for the study. All
animals were FEC positive, which was determined by the presence in the animals of a mean egg
per gram fecal (epg) of 206, with the range being 50-550 epg on Day -4. No anthelmintic had
been administered to the cattle within 30 days prior to Study Day 0. Study animals were
transferred from the home dairy farm to the study site (a grazing block) approximately 6 weeks
prior to Day 0. On Day 0 they were harboring an existing gastrointestinal nematode infection
derived from the study site farm and/or the home dairy farm. The IVP (Eprinomectin 7g/L and
levamisole phosphate 223 g/L) was administered at 1 mL/35 kg via subcutaneous route. The
Control Product (CP) was DECTOMAX@ (Pfizer Animal Health), which consists of 10mg/mL
doramectin was administered to the animals via subcutaneous route at a dose of 1mL/5Okg. Meat
and milk withholding were each 35 days.
        Method of administration/application.The IVP and CP were administered 1 time at Day
0 by subcutaneous injection in the anterior part of the neck. Individual doses were drawn up into
a graduated 10mL syringe immediately prior to treatment and were checked by a second person
before administration. Doses of IVP and CP were calculated on the basis of the heaviest
bodyweight in the relevant group as determined on Day o. Calculated doses were rounded up to
the nearest minor increment of the syringe. The IVP was administered at 1mL / 35kg. The
heaviest animal in Group 1 weighed 208.5 kg and the dose of IVP administered to each animal in
Group 1 was 6.0 mL. The CP was administered at 1mL/50kg. The heaviest animal in Group 2
weighed 199.0 kg and the dose of CP administered to each animal in Group 2 was 4.0 mL.
        All animals were returned to the source herd at the conclusion of the study. All animals
were treated with MATRIX C Hi-Min (Merial Ancare) after the conclusion of the study and
relevant withholding periods applied. Efficacy of the IVP and CP was determined by fecal egg
count reduction for the treated groups compared to the negative control group at each time point.
        Efficacy (%E) of the IVP and CP was calculated at each time point, using the formula:
%E= [C-T]/C x 100. Where: C      = mean FEC of the control group; T    =  mean FEC of the treated
group. Arithmetic and geometric mean FECs were then calculated. The significance of
differences between group FECs was statistically evaluated. Where data were considered to be
normally distributed as determined by Levene's test of equal variance, means were compared
using One-way Analysis of Variance (ANOV A). Data that were not normally distributed were
                                                49

     WO 2011/143479                                                              PCT/US2011/036321
compared using an equivalent non-parametric method. Where differences were considered
significant, (p<0.05), pair-wise comparisons were used to evaluate differences between groups.
        Results. No injection site reactions were observed in Group 1 animals at any time point.
FEC and larval culture results are shown in Tables 30-34. Table 30 shows arithmetic mean Day
-4 FEC and Day 0 bodyweight. Means in the same column that share a letter (A) are not
significantly different (p<0.05). Table 31 shows arithmetic and geometric mean FEC at Days 0 to
42. Based on arithmetic and geometric means, the FECs for Group 1 (treated with the IVP) were
significantly less (p<0.05) than both the control group (Group 3) at every timepoint post
treatment and significantly less than Group 2 (treated with DECTOMAX) at Day 14 and 28.
Based on arithmetic and geometric means, the FECs for Group 2 (treated with DECTOMAX)
were not significantly different from the control group at any timepoint.
Table 30. Group details.
 KGroup        n        Mean (range) FEC )ay -4 (epg)           Mean (range) bodyweight Day 0 (kg)
      1        15                  20^(50-500)                            162 (1125-208,5)
      2        15                 207^(50-550)                             156 (1065199)
      3        15                 207^ (5    0)                            158 (128 5:201)
Table 31. Group FECs.
   Group      Treatmneni~t I...
                            _____
                                     -O
                                   D..    --- --
                                                  Arithmetic mean FEC (epg)
                                                 - D 14 -               D 16            - --D-28
      I           IVP              337 1,            37A                 23A                 17 A
      2       Dectoimnax           320               15                  8                   183"
                                                  Geometric mean FEC (epg)
                                    D0              D 14                D 16                D 28
      I           IVP            2193A               4.8                4                    2
      2       Dectomax           262. 6k            93.5                22                  44.7
      3        Control            121 8A           136.9A               877                 455
Table 32. Percentage FEC reduction efficacy.
                              % Efficacy (arithmetic means)          % Efficacy (geometric means)
   Group      Treatment.....---]--
                              D 14          D 16         D28         D14           D16           D28
        1IVP                   85.9         8      0     90          96            95.4          95
      2       Deetomnax        42.5         56.4         -1932601.
                                                  50

      WO 2011/143479                                                              PCT/US2011/036321
          Efficacy of the IVP and CP at each timepoint (based on FEC reduction compared to the
untreated control group) is shown in Table 32. The percentage of each nematode genus identified
in 100 larvae from group coprocultures at each timepoint is shown in Table 33.
Table 33. Larval culture results (%)
                                                           --- -- - ---------  .
                                                                        TrichoNumber
                                                                                    I
                                                                                  ...-- - --------   of
       Day            Group        Treatment   Ostertagia                      Cooperia       larvae
                                                             strongylus
         -4           Pooled           NA          50                              43           100
         0            Pooled           NA          43                              51.          100
                          I           IVP         100*             0
          42                       Dectomax         0              4               96           100
                            3NA                    27              2               71           100
                          1           lVP        100*              0                0            6
        16               2         Dectonax        18              4               78
                         3             NA          30                              69           100
                          I            IVP       46***             0             54*             35
        28               2         Dectomax         1              5               94           100
              L ~ '     **            oT           3164..1                         64            0.o
   *I   rva recovered   **6 larvae recovered35              recovered
          The larval differential in a coproculture is usually determined from the percentage of
each genus identified in the first 100 larvae counted. Small numbers of larvae were obtained
from coprocultures from group 1 at days 14, 16 and 28, despite positive FECs. This suggests that
egg viability or larval development may have been suppressed in this group. Individual FEC
results at each timepoint are shown in Table 34.
                                                  51

    WO 2011/143479                                                                                      PCT/US2011/036321
Table 34. Individual FEC results
                                                              STRONGYLE FEC egg
  Group             ID
                                    D-4                      DO              D14             D16         D28
     1~7            11               100                     100             150              50            0
                    15               150                    100                0               0            0
                    20               100                    150                0               0            0
                    21              200                     400        -     100               0            0
                    22               300                    250              _0                0            0
                    36        ]     40                     150           0    5                00
                    36                50                    200                0               0          100
                    42               S00                    400               50              50            0
                    46              250                     300              150             100            0
                    47               150                    300                0              50            0
                    57              350                     1500               0              50           50
                    70              250                     100                0              50           50
                    7250                                                      50                           SO
       - --------
                    86               150                     150               0               0            0
                                -           ---   "________      ----
                     3                  0                   550              100             200
                                                                                               1  __ _____
                                                                                                          150
                     7               550                    600              200        1    1                0
                    18               100                     100             200               0           50
                    2                30000                     0               50              0          300
                    26               100                    200                 00                          0
                                                                             200               0
                    27100
                    30
                      9              2o00
                                       50
                                                            300
                                                            200
                                                                        [    100
                                                                               0
                                                                                             20
                                                                                               0
                                                                                                            0
                                                                                                          150
                                                                                                            0
                                    k
                                                                                                                _
                    55                50                    200               150             50          350
                    56               350                    600              200              50         550
                    64                50150                   ........
                                                                   _  . 5500
                                                                      .i             __     -__
                                                                                             -- -__
                                                                                                _  ----------
                                     300                    2.50                             100           50
                                       50                     0010                                       400
                                     15                     200              400             200            0
                    97               200                     150              50             100         250
     3               13               50                     50               50               0            0
                    16              250                      50               100            150         200
                    19               100                     100             100             15O         200
                    28               300                    350                50            250         400
                    33               550                    1000             60O             600          1
                    40              200                     300              250             250          150
                    451 150                                 350                         -50   M
                  L 49            491 50o                                     10
                                                                               5   __
                                                                                              50
                                                                                              5            100
                                                                                                          150
                    51                 00                   400              20              200          150
                    53               100                     100               50              0            0
                    60              450                     200            No -sampl         300          650
                                                                                                       .....
                                              --                                 _  _
                       - ----   t-  .__----  .....
                    85               300                     150               00            100           50
                    89               150                     50              400             200           100
                    94                '50                    100               0             100            0
                    102              20O                    350              650_           _300              0
                                                                          52

     WO 2011/143479                                                       PCT/US2011/036321
        Conclusions. Based on arithmetic mean FECs, the levamisole/eprinomectin injection was
over 85% effective and this effect was maintained up to 28 days after treatment. DECTOMAX
(doramectin)     was   insufficiently effective.    Based  on   geometric    mean    FECs,    the
levamisole/eprinomectin injection was over 95% effective and this effect was maintained up to
28 days after treatment. DECTOMAX was insufficiently effective. Efficacies were evaluated in
animals carrying a mixed infection of Ostertagia, Trichostrongylusand Cooperia spp. There was
strong evidence of anthelmintic resistance, and in particular, resistance by Cooperia spp. to
doramectin.
Example 10 - Efficacy of a combination injectable anthelmintic containing eprinomectin and
levamisole against common gastrointestinal nematodes in cattle.
        Experimental design. This study was a randomized total worm count efficacy and dose
confirmation study, with a negative control group. The study determined efficacy against a
natural infection of common gastrointestinal nematodes in cattle. Prior to the study, a group of
21 animals meeting the inclusion criteria and suspected of harboring a natural infection of
gastrointestinal nematodes were individually identified with uniquely numbered ear tags. The
animals were fecal sampled and individual fecal egg counts (FECs) were performed. A bulk
fecal sample was cultured and larval differentiation performed to identify the nematode species
present. The fourteen study animals with the highest FEC results were selected for the study and
introduced to the when study diet while in the paddock on day -5. On Day 0, the study animals
were removed from pasture to the indoor facility. The animals were fecal sampled for individual
FEC and randomly allocated into two groups of seven. One animal in each group was identified
as a spare. Animals were weighed and the NP treatment was administered. Animals in Group 1
were treated with the IVP. Animals in Group 2 were left untreated. Treated animals were
observed for adverse reactions at approximately 30 minutes and 1, 2 and 4 hours after treatment.
        On Day 11, fecal samples were collected for individual fecal egg counts. On Day 13,
animals were held off food overnight but continued to have ad libitum access to water. On Day
14, all animals (excluding spares) were humanely euthanized. The gastrointestinal tract of each
animal was collected and forwarded directly to the laboratory for processing and subsequent
worm counts. The animal phase of the study concluded after the Day 14 procedures had been
                                                 53

     WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
performed. Bodyweights were recorded immediately prior to treatment Fecal egg count and total
worm count data was entered into an excel spreadsheet for statistical analysis. Individual fecal
samples were collected from study animals by rectal grab prior to the study and on Day 0, and
Day 11. Samples were delivered to the Laboratory on the day of collection or the day after
collection. Individual fecal egg counts were performed on samples collected prior to the study
and on Day    0 and 11. Bulk larval culture and larval differentiation was performed on samples
collected prior to the study. Gastrointestinal tracts (GITs) were collected immediately after
euthanasia. The GIT was ligated at each end of the small intestine, large intestine and abomasum.
The GIT was allowed to cool at ambient temperature for approximately 2 hours after collection.
Each individual GIT was sealed (together with the animal's ear tag) in an individual bag
identified by the animal's ear tag number. GITs were delivered to the Analytical Laboratory as
soon as possible on the day of collection, accompanied by a sample submission form.
Randomization / blinding was carried out as described.
        All study animals had positive FECs prior to the study with a mean egg count of 121 epg.
Larvae cultured from feces from all animals sampled prior to the study showed the following
parasite species, 86% Cooperia spp., and 14% Ostertagia (Teladorsagia) spp. The mean body
weight of the treatment group (excluding the reserve animal) on day zero of the study was
98.0kg. The mean body weight of the control group (excluding the reserve animal) on day zero
of the study was 96.5kg. IVP was prepared and administered as in Example 9, and comprised
eprinomectin (at 7 g/L) and levamisole phosphate (at 223 g/L). The injection site was cleaned
and dried and was clipped then swabbed with 70% alcohol before treatment. A new sterile 20G
1.5 inch needle was used for each injection. Administration was performed once during the
study, on Day 0, based upon bodyweight at 1 mL/35kg bodyweight. After the conclusion of the
study, the spare animals were returned to the source herd. The treated spare was subjected to
observation of a 91 day withholding period.
        Worm counts were performed according to the VICH Guideline on the efficacy of
anthelmintics: general requirements (1998). Counts were made on 2% aliquots of abomasa and
small intestine washings that had been sieved through a 38gm sieve. Counts were also made on
10% aliquots of large intestine washings that had been sieved through a 150gm sieve. Total
Worm Counts & Fecal Egg Counts: Calculation of IVP percentage efficacy (%E) was performed
for each of the worm species (WS) present using the following formula: %E (Mean of (WS) in
                                               54

      WO 2011/143479                                                                PCT/US2011/036321
controls - mean of (WS) in treatment group) x 100 Mean of(WS) in controls. The same %E
calculations were used to analyze the fecal egg count data. Statistics were calculated as described
in the preceding Examples.
        Results. Fecal egg counts: Mean fecal egg count (FEC) results are shown in Table 35.
Based on FEC results the IVP was> 99.9% effective at reducing FECs at eleven days post
treatment.
Table 35. Arithmetic mean FECs and % reduction in FECs of treated animals relative to controls
in calves treated with a combination eprinomectin and levamisole injection
   Study Day                    Contro Grp                     Treatment Grp              Efficacy
                                 FEC epg)                         FEC (epg
   Day 0                              108.3                          91 7
   Day 1                               250                            0*                   >99.9%
   *= Staititcally significatit diffhemce frmm the control group
Table 36. Arithmetic mean worm counts and % reduction in worm numbers of treated animals
relative to controls in calves treated with a combination eprinomectin and levamisole injection.
   Parasite                                      Control       Treatment   Efficacy
                   Oswaei ~t ni)                   1670                    >99.9%
   Ostertagia (immature)                            50             0       >99.9%
   Trichosrnylusaxei (adult)                        367            0       >999%
   Haemonchus contortus (adult)                     42             0       >99.%
   Haetmanchus contortns (immature)                 17             0       >99 9%
                                                                   o-p     >99,9%
   Cooperia (immature)                              192            0       >99.9%
   Trichostronglusadult )                           33             0       >99.9%
    &natudrusadult                                   17            0        99,9%
   Qesophagostomumn (ad ult)                         12            0       >99.9%
         Total worm counts. Arithmetic and Geometric mean total worm counts and percentage
efficacy of the treatment group relative to the control group are presented in Table 36 and 37.
Results demonstrate that the IVP was highly effective in the control of a mixed infection of
gastrointestinal parasites in cattle. The IVP was >99.9% effective against the following parasite
spp; Ostertagia(adult & immature), Trichostrongylus axei (adult), Haemonchus contortus (adult
& immature), Cooperia (adult & immature), Trichostrongylus (adult), Nematodirus (adult),
Oesophagostomum (adult).
                                                           55

      WO 2011/143479                                                                      PCT/US2011/036321
Table 37. Geometric mean worm counts and % reduction in worm numbers of treated animals
relative to controls in calves treated with a combination eprinomectin and levamisole injection.
  Parasite                                             Control      Treatnient   Efficacy
  Osterwgia (adult)                                       1338 -0*               >99.9%
  Ostertagia(immature)
  Trichoastronylusaxei (adult)
                                                            8
                                                          237
                                                                         0     j
                                                                        0*99.91%
                                                                                      9%
  Haemonchus contortus(adult .....                          8
                                                            80         _.....    >999%
  Haenwnchus contortus (immature)                           3            0       >999%
  C(peria (adult)                                        14015                   >*99.9%
  Cooperia(immature)                                       147                   >99.9%
  Trichostrongyhus (ad ult                                  7            0       >999%
  Nematodirus(adult)                                        3            0       >99.9%
  Oesophagostmui (adult)                                    8           0*       >99.9%
    z Stastically signifcant difthrnee rm the coarol group
          Conclusions. This study was designed to determine the efficacy of an eprinomectin /
levamisole injection against a mixed infection of common gastrointestinal parasites in cattle.
Results demonstrate that the IVP was highly efficacious. Efficacies of >99.9% were recorded
against the following parasite spp; Ostertagia (adult and immature), Trichostrongylus axei
(adult), Haemonchus contortus (adult and immature), Cooperia (adult and immature),
Trichostrongylus(adult), Nematodirus (adult), Oesophagostomum (adult).
Example 11. Efficacy of investigational eprinomectin / levamisole formulation versus
commercial product
          This study was performed using the methods described in the preceding Examples,
except that an additional DECTOMAX treatment group was added.
          Results. No injection site reactions were observed in Group 1 animals at either the Day 14
or the Day 28 observations. Table 38 below shows group arithmetic and geometric mean FEC at
Days -8 to 50. Means in the same column that do not share a letter (AS/C) are significantly
different (p<0.05). Based on both arithmetic and geometric means, the FECs for Group 1 (treated
with the IVP) and Group 2 (treated with DECTOMAX) were significantly less (p<0.05) than the
control group (Group 3) at each of the post-treatment timepoints up to and including Day 43. The
FECs for Group 1 (treated with the IVP) were also significantly less (p<0.05) than the control
group (Group 3) at day 50.
                                                                 56

      WO 2011/143479                                                                        PCT/US2011/036321
Table 38. Group mean FECs (epg)
                Treat-                                        Arithmetic mean FEC
 G roup----ment                                                                    ..............
                                D-8              D       f      D14             D28           D 43        D50
     1            WP           1467       P     96.4             67     1       133           133'       23.3
     2        Dectomax         140.0            83.3^           43 3            46.7^        46 743.3
     3          Control        133 A            121.4^          1667             333         156.        100D"
                                                               Geometric mean FEC
                                D-8                0             D 14           D28           D 43        D50
     1_           WP           134.11           52.2A              4             0,8           13          4.W
     2        Deetomax          291             30A1             4.0120                         .            0"
    3          Control         131.4     j      65.0            59.5            87_8          09 9524
Efficacy of the IVP and CP at each timepoint (based on FEC reduction compared to the untreated
control group) is shown in Table 39.
Table 39. Percentage FEC reduction efficacy
                                % Efficacy (arithmeic means)                     % Efficacy (geometric means)
  Group       Treatment ---           r----r-
                              D14         D 28        D 43        D,50         D14      D28        D 43      D.5.
     1           IVP          960          90.0       91 5         76.7        99.0     99 1       98. 8     92.3
     2        Dectomax        74.0         65.0         0.2       56.7         930      86 3       93 2      82
The percentage of each nematode genus identified in 100 larvae from group coprocultures at
each timepoint is shown in Table 40. Only 18 larvae were recovered and identified from the
coproculture for Group 1 on Day 14. This suggests that egg viability or larval development may
have been suppressed in this Group.
Table 40. Larval culture results (%).
                                                                         Tricho
      Day            Group         Treatment         Ostertagia                        Cooperia      Haemonchus
-------------- 4___                                 _________     _    strongylus
        0            Pooled             NA                 14                             85             0
                                        IVP                00*              O              0             0
       14               2           Deetomax               0                0             100            0lk
                        3               NA                 28               13            59             0
                        1               IVP                86               0                                 .4.
       28               2           Dectomax                0               0             100            0
                        3               NA                 19               0             81             0
                                        IVP                41               0             59
       43               2           Dectomax                6                2            92             C
                        3               NA                 19               0             81
                                         VP                14               2             84             0
       50               2           Dectomax               22               0             78             0
                        3 _NA                              34               6--           600
   8 larvae recovred
                                                             57

     WO 2011/143479                                                           PCT/US2011/036321
        Table 41 shows group body weights at Day 0 and Day 50. Means in the same column that
do not share a letter (A/B) are significantly different (p<0.05). The mean live weight gain for
Group 1 (treated with the IVP) over the 50 day period of the study was significantly greater than
for the untreated control group (Group 3).
Table 41. Bodyweights
                               Mean (range)                   (range)
                                                                    -ea        Mean (range) weight
            Treatmentht                 ayO(kg)    bodyw       D       0 (kg)         in(g)
     1         IVP            177.2 (138-221)          233 5 (201-266)             56.3^(43-80)
     2       Dectomax         184.1 (128-229)          234.5 (153-28S)            50 4^ (25-71)
     3        Control         189,6 (163-234)          235.4 (218-29 1)           45.8   (33-5
                                                58

     WO 2011/143479                                                      PCT/US2011/036321
Table 42. Individual FEC results
                                         SIRONGYLE FEC (epg)
 Group        ID
                         D-8           DO         D14         D28       D43        D 50
              101            100          100           0            0                  so
              103            150          200           0          SO5                    0
              112            3.0          1SO           of0                 100         50
              113            200           so           0            0         0      100
              116            150           50         100         150          0        50
              118            100          100           0            0         0        50
              126            400            0           0            0         0          0
              127            100          100           0     4      0         0          0
              128            100          150           0            0         0          0
              138            150           50           0            0         0          0
              143            100          100           0            0         G        50
              149            I5O          150           0            0         0          0
              1053               0            N                      0       s            o
              5 8
                             100                        0            0         0          0
              163            100          1500                       0                    0
    2         102
              114
                             150
                             111100
                             100
                                          100
                                          1001
                                           50
                                                        0
                                                      100
                                                                   5
                                                                  100
                                                                   50
                                                                       ]     50so
                                                                            100 --------------
                                                                               0
                                                                                          0
                                                                                          0--
                                                                                          0
              119            300            0           0            01     100       is
              121            100          100         100         100          0      100
              123            200          100                 0             100         50
              124            150            0         100          so          0        50
              129              50         150           0          s                    50
              136            100                  0           0                0          0
              137            200          150         200         150       150           0
              139            150          100           0                      0        50
              146            100          100           0          50          0      100
              150            1                        ISO         10l          0      100
              160            150100                     00100
              164            150          200           0            0      100           0
    3         106            100          100           0          5        100  [n
              108                          NS         100          50       150           0
              110              50          50         150         100       1SO         5
              115            100          100           0            0                  5
                                                                                        so
              117            250            0                      -s
                                                                   52       2GO       200
              120            100          150          50         100       100       250
              122            350          100         300         150       250       200
              130            100          100         450         200       150        100
              1,31           15o          20          300         350       200          50
              132              SO         150         153         150         50         50
              144                   __    20I5                    100       150         50_
              145            100          200         200         200       150        15O
              147            100          200         200         150       250        100
              159            150             0        300         250       150        100
              162            200          150         150         100       300        150
NS=-No sampIe
                                                59

      WO 2011/143479                                                       PCT/US2011/036321
        Conclusions. Based on arithmetic mean FECs, the levamisole/eprinomectin injection had
an efficacy of 90% or greater and this effect was maintained up to 43 days after treatment.
DECTOMAX (doramectin) was insufficiently effective at all time points. Based on geometric
mean FECs, the levamisole/eprinomectin injection was over 98% effective and this effect was
maintained up to 43 days after treatment. DECTOMAX was over 86% effective during the same
period. Efficacies were evaluated in animals carrying a mixed infection of Ostertagia,
Trichostrongylusand Cooperia spp.
Example 12 - Efficacy of investigational eprinomectin / levamisole compared with doramectin
containing product
        Methods. This study was performed in accordance with Example 11. The doses of IVP
and CP were calculated according to individual body weights. Group 1 was treated with the IVP
at the dose rate of 1mL/ 35 kg live weight; Group 2 was treated with the Control Product at the
recommended dose rate of lmL/50kg; and Group 3 was left untreated as the negative control.
        Results. No injection site reactions were observed in Group 1 animals on either Day 17 or
Day 28. Table 43 shows group arithmetic mean FEC at Day -6 and mean bodyweights at Day 0
and Day 56. Means in the same column that share a letter (A) are not significantly different
(p<0.05).
Table 43. Group details
                  Mean (range) FEC Day-6      Mean (range) bodyweight   Mean (range) bodyweight
    Gro..    ..              (epg)                   Day 0 (kg)                 Day 56 (kg)
      I      1i         170^ (100-300)              159 (129189)               184 (155-205)
      2      15         180^ (100-350)              158 (136-209)             183(1.52.5-240)
      3      15         187^ (100-450)              156(127-197)               178 (149-220)
Table 44 shows group arithmetic and geometric mean FEC at Days 0-42. Means in the same
column that do not share a letter (A/B) are significantly different (p<0.05). Based on geometric
means, the FECs for Group 1 (treated with the JVP) were significantly less (p<0.05) than both
the control group (Group 3) and the group treated with DECTOMAX (Group 2) on both of Days
16 and 28.
                                                 60

     WO 2011/143479                                                                 PCT/US2011/036321
Table 44. Group FECs
   Group
     1
             Treatment
                IVP
                          -----
                                 DO
                           503A(0 1800)
                                             -----------------------
                                                      016
                                                   3" (0-50)
                                                                    F
                                              Arithmetic mean (range) FEC (epg)
                                                                            D 28
                                                                          3'(0-50)
                                                                                            --
                                                                                               D 42
                                                                                            60 (0-200)
     2       Dectomax      393A (0-1050)        160 (0-1050)            103 (0-700)         86 (0-200)
     3        Control       254 (0-550)          137 (0-600)            125- (0-250)        83 (0-150)
                                                   Geometric mean FEC (epg)
                                 D 0                  D 16                  D 28               D 42
     1          IVP249.2                              030                                      176
     2       Dectonax           16 1 7                28P                     6                 5,8
     3        Control           1378                   2                    680        _       30.4
The efficacy of the IVP and CP at each timepoint (based on FEC reduction compared to the
untreated control group is shown in Table 45. The percentage of each nematode genus identified
in 100 larvae from group coprocultures at each timepoint is shown in Table 46.
Table 45. Percentage FEC reduction efficacy compared to untreated control
                            % Efficacy (arithmetic means)                % Efficacy (geometric means)
   Group     Treatment
                            DU16          D 28         1D 42             D16           D28         D42
     I          IVP          97,6         97.3             2             990           99.6        42.2
     2       Dectomax       ~       .     17.3             2.9           47 0          753         48,0
Table 46. Larval culture results (%)
                                                                  Tricho
      Day          Group        Treatment    Ostertagia         strongylus
                                                                                Cooperia    Haemonchus
       0           Pooled           NA             12                8             80              0
                     1              IVP            97                0              3              0
       16            2          Dectomax            2                0             98              0
                     3              NA              5                0               5             0
                      SIVP                         56                0             44              0
       28            2          Dectomax           11                0             89              0
                     3              NA                               9             68              0
                     1              IVP                              0             98              0
       42            2          Dectomax            3                0             97              0
                     3              NA              8                0             920
                                                   61

     WO 2011/143479                                                        PCT/US2011/036321
Table 47. Individual FEC results
                                         STRONGYLE
  G roup       ID      - - -...      - - - - - - - FE C (epg) ......- , - - - -
                                       DO          D16        D-28          D42
     1          77        150           50          50         50             0
                88        150            0           0          0           150
                91        2000         1800          0          0           200
                94        300          850           0          0            50
                97         100         650           0          0             o
               102        200          150           0          0           100
               105        100          250           0          0            100
               112        150          200           0          0             0
               116        200          300           a0                       0
               119        150          400           0          0            50
               120        300          700           0          0             0
               123        200          1050          0           0           50
               124         100         100           0          0            50
               133         100         600           0          0           100
               136        150          450           0          0            50
                76        350          850           0          50          200
                82         100         650         100                      200
                83         200         20100                   100            0
                85        150          350         100         100           100
                92        100            0           0           G           50
                98        150          200         100          50            0
               100        200           ISO          0           0          150
               103        200          250         200         150           100
               111         150         1050        1050        700           100
               121        100          850         400         200           50
               122        200           100         50         100           100
               127        150            0           0           0           ns
               129        1 0          250          100         0           '-00
               132        300          700         200         100            0
               137        200250                                 0
                78        150          250          100        150            0
     3          81         100          50           50        100           150
                84         150         200          100        250           100
                87         100          50          150        150            0
                90         150         400          100        100           100
                95        200           150   j     100        1-50    ---------Q
                99        450           ISO         100        100            00
               101        200           550          0    0                   0
               104        100            nS        200         100            0
               106        150            0          100        100           50
               110         150         550          150        200           100
               117        400          350         200         200           ISO
               118        250          300           0          ns           100
               . 25        100         500         600         150           150
               128         150          50           0           0           150
 ns = no sample
        Conclusions. Based on arithmetic mean FECs, the levamisole/eprinomectin injection was
over 97.6% effective and this effect was maintained up to 28 days after treatment. DECTOMAX
                                                62

     WO 2011/143479                                                         PCT/US2011/036321
was insufficiently effective at all time points. Based on geometric mean FECs, the levamisole /
eprinomectin injection was over 99% effective and this effect was maintained up to 28 days after
treatment. DECTOMAX was insufficiently effective at all time points. Efficacies were evaluated
in animals carrying a mixed infection of Ostertagia, Trichostrongylus and Cooperia spp. There
was strong evidence of resistance by Cooperia spp. to doramectin.
*           *           *
        Having thus described in detail preferred embodiments of the present invention, it is to be
understood that the invention defined by the above paragraphs is not to be limited to particular
details set forth in the above description as many apparent variations thereof are possible without
departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention.
                                                 63

   WO 2011/143479                                                          PCT/US2011/036321
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
  1. A pharmaceutically or veterinarily acceptable formulation adapted to be injected into an
     animal, which formulation comprises;
         a. an effective amount of a levamisole;
         b. an effective amount of at least one macrocyclic lactone;
         c.  a pharmaceutically acceptable system of solvents and surfactants wherein the
             system provides for acceptable storage stability for both the levamisole and the
             macrocyclic lactone and wherein the system provides for a viscosity which is
             suitable for injection;
     and wherein the system comprises at least one surfactant.
  2. The formulation of claim 1 wherein the levamisole is levamisole phosphate and wherein
     the levamisole is present in an amount sufficient to deliver a dose of at least 4 mg/kg
     animal bodyweight.
  3. The formulation of claim 1, wherein the macrocyclic lactone is either ivermectin or
     eprinomectin and is present in an amount sufficient to deliver a dose of at least 150 pg/kg
     animal bodyweight.
  4. The formulation of any one of claims 1 or 3 which further comprises an antioxidant, a
     preservative, and water for injection wherein the water for injection is provided in a
     quantity sufficient to bring the formulation to a suitable injection volume.
  5. The formulation of any one of claims 1 to 4 wherein the macrocyclic lactone
     concentration is from about 0.l1% to about 2% (w/v); the levamisole concentration is from
     about 15 % to about 30% (w/v); and the surfactant concentration is from about 1% to
     about 10% (w/v).
  6. The formulation of claim 5 wherein the macrocyclic lactone is eprinomectin and its
     concentration is about 0.5% to about 0.9% (w/v); the levamisole is levamisole phosphate
     and its concentration is about 18% to about 25% (w/v); the surfactant is
     POLYSORBATE 80, CREMOPHOR EL, or combinations thereof, and its concentration
     is about 3% to about 7% (w/v); the antioxidant is BHT; the solvent is DMA and its
     concentration is about 1% to about 10% (w/v); and the preservative is methyl paraben.
                                               64

 WO 2011/143479                                                          PCT/US2011/036321
7. The formulation of any one of claims 1-6 wherein the macrocyclic lactone is
    eprinomectin and wherein the eprinomectin has a specification such that its B 1a
    composition is greater than or equal to 85.0% and its Bl a + Bib composition is greater
    than or equal to 90.0%; and wherein the density of the formulation is between 0.95 and
    1.20 and pH is between 3.0 - 5.0.
8.  A method for preventing or treating internal parasite infestations in animals, which
    method comprises administering to an animal an effective amount of a formulation
    according to any one of claims I to 5.
9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the formulation is injected.
10. The method of claim 8 or 9 wherein the macrocyclic lactone concentration is from 0.5 %
    to 0.9% (w/v) and the levamisole concentration is from 15% to 25% (w/v).
11. The method of claim 8 or 9 wherein the parasites are helminths.
12. The method of claim II wherein the helminths are nematodes, cestodes, trematodes.
13. A method for producing the formulation according to claim I or 2 comprising the steps
    of:
        a. adding water for injection to a vessel,
        b. dissolving the Levamisole in the water,
        c.  in a separate vessel dissolving Eprinomectin and BHT in DMA,
        d. adding the surfactant to the DMA/Eprinomectin blend,
        e.  transferring the Eprinomectin/DMA blend to the bulk aqueous phase with mixing,
            and
        f. optionally, bringing the batch to volume with added WFI and mix.
                                             65

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
