213/913PCT
                             Abstract
      A cannula system and method for accessing a blood mass in
the brain.   The system comprises a cannula with a camera
mounted on the proximal end of the cannula with a view into
the cannula lumen and the surgical field below the lumen.    A
prism, reflector or other suitable optical element is oriented
between the camera and the lumen of the cannula to afford the
camera a view into the cannula while minimizing obstruction of
the lumen.   The system may also include an obturator with a
small diameter shaft and a large diameter tip which is
optically transmissive, so that a surgeon inserting or
manipulating the assembly can easily see that the obturator
tip is near brain tissue   (which is white) or blood (which is
red).
                                 55

212/213PCT
                                     2/9
                 12                    /5
                          12
                                 IA/
                    Fie       21          Fig. 3g
               5          12
                                          Fie .5
                                                   ---   13A
                              21
                 21 6---2                              ----------      ------
                                                                    ----
                             > <Fig.           6
                                  21                         17      12
           6j20
                                                  --    - -   -   -     -  205
                      20C

213/913PCT
             Cannula with Proximally Mounted Camera
                     Field of the Inventions
[0001]     The inventions described below relate to the field
of minimally invasive brain surgery.
                  Background of the Inventions
[0002]     Stroke is a common cause of death and disabling
neurologic disorder.   Approximately 700,000 patients suffer
from stroke in the United States every year.    Hemorrhagic
stroke accounts for 20% of the annual stroke population.
Hemorrhagic  stroke is due to a rupture of a blood vessel in
the brain, causing bleeding into the brain tissue and
resulting in a hematoma   (a blood mass) in the brain.  Prompt
removal of the blood mass is necessary to limit or prevent
long-term brain injury.
[0003]     Clear visualization and imaging of the blood mass
and any surrounding surgical field facilitates removal of the
blood mass.   Removal and visualization can often be
accomplished through a cannula and obturator assembly, placed
through a hole drilled in the skull near the site of the
hematoma.   The site of the hematoma can be accurately
identified using a CT scan.
[0004]     To aid in placement of the cannula and obturator
assembly precisely at the hematoma, and also to aid in
inserting the cannula through a route least   likely to damage
healthy brain tissue, neurosurgeons use sophisticated and
costly stereotactic surgery systems or neuro-navigation
systems.   These systems depend on previously obtained MRI or
CT scans, which may be several hours old, and thus not
perfectly reflective of the shape and location of the blood
                                  1

213/913PCT
mass at the time of surgery.   In these systems, visual
confirmation that the cannula distal end is properly
positioned can be accomplished only after the obturator has
been removed from the cannula.   If the distal end has not been
accurately placed, the obturator must be re-inserted, and the
cannula and obturator assembly must be manipulated, perhaps
repeatedly, until, after removal of the obturator, the blood
mass is visible.
[0005]     A less sophisticated method, used before these
expensive neuro-navigation systems and stereotactic systems
became standard and still used where these systems are not
available, involves large craniotomies, exploration and direct
visual search for a blood mass, extensive tissue dissection,
and invasive instrumentation, all associated with high
mortality and morbidity.
                             Summary
[0006]     The devices and methods described below provide for
improved visualization of the brain during minimally invasive
surgery.   The device comprises a cannula with a camera mounted
on the proximal end of the cannula with a view into the
cannula lumen and the tissue within and below the lumen.    A
prism, reflector or other suitable optical element is oriented
between the camera and the lumen of the cannula to afford the
camera a view into the cannula while minimizing obstruction of
the lumen.
[0007]     The devices including the cannula with a camera
mounted on the proximal end of the cannula with a view into
the cannula lumen and the tissue within and below the lumen,
and optionally a display to display images obtained by the
camera, can be used with an obturator comprising a long, small
cross-section shaft with a short,   large diameter tip which is
                                 2

213/913PCT
transparent or translucent.   The prism, reflector or other
suitable optical element is oriented between the camera and
the lumen of the cannula to afford the camera a view of the
obturator tip while minimizing obstruction of the lumen.     The
assembled cannula, camera and obturator can be inserted into
the brain of a patient, with the obturator tip used to gently
dissect brain tissue to make way for the assembly, as well as
obturate  (occlude) the distal opening of the cannula.   The
small cross-section obturator shaft is much smaller than the
inner diameter of the cannula, affording a sizable annular or
circular space between the shaft and the cannula wall to
provide good visibility  (from the camera) of the proximal
surface of the obturator tip.   Lights, if necessary, may be
provided in the cannula to illuminate the distal end of the
obturator tip and cannula or tissue near the distal end of the
cannula  (lighting may instead be provided from a source
outside the assembly, or from lights mounted on the proximal
end of the cannula or any combination of the foregoing).
Light reflected by tissue near the distal surface of the
obturator tip passes through the obturator and out of the
proximal surface of the obturator tip, so that a surgeon
inserting or manipulating the assembly can easily see that the
obturator tip is near brain tissue   (which is white to gray) or
blood  (which is red to black).
[0008]     The system, and the method of access it enables, may
be used as an adjunct to neuro-navigation to help confirm
successful navigation to a hematoma, especially where the goal
of the surgery is removal of the blood mass through the
cannula.   The system and the method it enables may be used to
locate a blood mass, in lieu of a neuro-navigation system, in
situations where the approximate location of the hematoma is
known from imaging, or in situations where the approximate
                                 3

213/913PCT
location of the hematoma may be ascertained with smaller
probes, or during emergent surgery.
               Brief Description of the Drawings
[0009]    Figure 1 illustrates the head of a patient with an
area requiring surgical intervention.
[0010]    Figure 2 illustrates a cannula with a proximally
mounted camera.
[0011]    Figure 3 is an exploded side view of a cannula with
a proximally mounted camera.
[0012]    Figure 4 is a top view of a cannula with a
proximally mounted camera.
[0013]    Figure 5 is a close-up side view of a cannula light
shield with the camera movable on a track.
[0014]    Figure  6 is a close-up side view of the camera for a
cannula with a proximally mounted camera.
[0015]    Figure 7 illustrates the insertion of an obturator
and cannula with a proximally mounted camera into a tissue
mass in the patient of Figure 1.
[0016]    Figure 8 illustrates the use of a cannula with a
proximally mounted camera to perform minimally invasive
surgery on the patient of Figure   1.
[0017]    Figure  9 illustrates an additional structure of the
cannula which provides  for easy attachment and detachment of
the camera to the cannula tube.
[0018]    Figures  10 and 11 illustrate the camera and cannula
system in which the camera is fixed to the cannula tube, and
                                 4

213/913PCT
the obturator is modified to pass the camera even as it
encroaches on the  space over the lumen of the cannula tube.
[0019]    Figure 12  illustrates a patient with a blood mass in
the brain that necessitates  surgical intervention, with a
cannula which has been inserted into the brain, with the
distal end of the cannula proximate the blood mass and an
obturator tip extending into the blood mass.
[0020]    Figure 13  illustrates a cannula, camera and
obturator system.
[0021]    Figure 14  illustrates removal of the obturator while
the camera assembly remains fixed to the proximal end of the
cannula.
[0022]    Figures  15, 16 and 17 depict exemplary images
obtained by the camera while advancing the system through the
brain.
[0023]    Figures  18 and 19 illustrate obturator tips,   for use
with the cannula, camera and obturator system of Figure 12.
             Detailed Description of the Inventions
[0024]    Figure 1 illustrates a patient 1 with a blood mass 2
in the brain 3 that necessitates   surgical intervention.   A
cannula 4 has been inserted into the brain, with the distal
end of the cannula proximate the blood mass.    A camera 5 is
mounted on the proximal rim of the cannula, with a portion of
the camera overhanging the rim of the cannula and disposed
over the lumen of the cannula, and is operable to obtain video
or still images of the blood mass or other tissue at the
distal end of the cannula.
[0025]    Figure 2 illustrates the cannula 4 in detail.     The
cannula comprises a cannula tube 6, with a distal end 6d
                                 5

213/913PCT
adapted for insertion into the body of the patient, and the
proximal end 6p which remains outside the body during use.     A
camera 5 is mounted on the proximal end 6p of the cannula
tube.   A mounting structure 7 secured to the proximal end of
the cannula.   The camera, shown in more detail in the
following figures, may include or be fitted with a prism, a
reflector or other mirror structure or optical element,
overhanging the lumen 8 of the cannula tube.    If the camera is
small compared to the cannula lumen, the camera may be used
without the prism or reflector, and may be oriented with its
viewing axis aligned along the long axis of the cannula.     The
light necessary to provide good visualization of the blood
mass, and obtain images of the blood mass, may be provided by
light sources  9 (LED's or other light  source) disposed at the
distal end 6d of the cannula tube, at or proximate the distal
opening.   The light sources may instead be disposed at the
proximal end of the cannula tube and the light may be
transmitted through the open lumen of the cannula, or may be
transmitted through optical  fibers 10,  or, if the cannula is
made of a transparent material, the light may be transmitted
down the walls of the cannula tube to exit the distal end of
the cannula wall to illuminate the blood mass.    The ring 11 of
the mounting structure 7 serves as a shield to block light
from view from a proximal viewpoint, whether the light
emanates directly from proximally located lights, or passes
through the cannula tube from distally located lights.    In
embodiments in which the light sources are disposed on the
proximal end of a transmissive cannula tube, the distal
portion 6d of the cannula tube may shaped, molded, machined,
treated or otherwise configured to enable the emergence of
light from cannula tube 6 to illuminate the surgical field.
For example, the inner distal surface and/or the outer distal
surface may be sanded or frosted or coated to enable emission
of light through the surfaces.   Where the light  sources are
                                 6

213/913PCT
disposed toward the distal end of the cannula, the portion of
the cannula holding the light sources, and the portion of the
cannula distal to the light  sources may be optically
transmissive to generate more light for the surgical field,
while the portion of the cannula proximal to the light sources
may be opaque.   Cables for providing power to the camera and
light source,  and carrying image data from the camera to a
display, may be provided, or the device may be powered by
batteries disposed on the device and image data can be
transmitted wirelessly to a display.
[0026]     Figure 3 is an exploded side view of cannula 4 with
the camera 5 disposed on the proximal rim of the cannula tube,
with a prism or reflector 12 overhanging the lumen 8 of the
cannula.   Figure 4 illustrates a top view of cannula 4 with a
proximally mounted camera 5.   Figure 3 also shows the LEDs  9
disposed on or near the distal end 6P of the cannula tube to
emit light into the surgical field   (such as blood mass 2).
[0027]     The camera may be mounted within the mounting
structure so that the prism or reflector 12 may be removed
from its overhanging position, either by sliding the camera
radially, flipping the camera around a pivot, or by removing
the camera from the camera mounting structure entirely.
Figure  5 illustrates a sliding attachment of camera 5 to the
mounting structure 7 as well as movement of the camera from a
standby position 13S to a use position 13A.    With camera 5 in
use position 13A, the prism/reflector 12 extends partially or
fully into the cylindrical space   14 defined by and extending
from the lumen 8 and affords an unobstructed view of   surgical
site at the distal opening of the cannula tube, while
providing minimal interference to small diameter surgical
instruments using lumen 8 to perform surgery   (for example, an
aspirator or a macerator).   Any suitable technique for
moveably attaching the camera 5 to the light shield 7 may be
                                 7

213/913PCT
used.   For example, the camera may be slidably attached on a
track such as track 15,   in which case the track 15 secures the
camera 5 to the light shield and enables the camera/prism
assembly to move radially between a standby position 13S to a
use position 13A and back again    (that is, from a first
position in which the prism extends into the lumen 8 or the
cylindrical space 14 defined by the lumen of the cannula tube,
to a second position in which the prism resides outside of
lumen 8 or the cylindrical space    14 defined by the lumen of
the cannula tube).   The  camera may also be attached with a
pivot at 16,  so that it is rotatably attached to the tube,
from a first position in which the axis of the camera is
perpendicular, or substantially perpendicular, to the long
axis of the cannula tube to a second position angled from the
long axis so that the prism resides outside the cylindrical
space 14  defined by a virtual extension of the lumen of the
cannula tube.   The camera may also be releasably attached to
the mounting structure   (i.e., it may be readily attached and
detached by hand, without the use of tools, during a surgical
procedure) with a friction fit or detent arrangement between
the camera and a channel of the mounting structure, or other
suitable releasable attachment means.
[0028]     Figure 6 is a close-up side view of the camera 5.
The camera 5 comprises the prism or reflector 12,    a lens or
lenses 17  (which may include an achromatic lens or other
doublet),  the imaging device 18 and the control system 19    (if
provided in the camera component of the system).     The  lens 17
may be part of an optical assembly that includes additional
optical components.   The imaging device 18 may be any suitable
image sensor such as a CCD sensor or CMOS sensor.     The control
system 19 may include a controller, data processing components
and transmitters such as a controller and a transmitter to
control the camera and transmit data from the camera     (the data
                                  8

213/913PCT
output system may be located off the device).        Suitable cables
or wireless transmitters may be used to connect the camera to
a display system and a power supply.       The imaging sensor is
characterized by an imaging plane, and the prism is aligned
with the imaging plane to direct light directed parallel to
the imaging plane toward the imaging plane.       As illustrated,
the imaging plane is parallel to the long axis of the cannula
tube, and the prism/reflector is disposed along a line
perpendicular to the imaging plane, and is oriented to direct
light from the surgical field at the distal end of the cannula
tube onto the imaging plane.
[0029]     In the illustrated embodiment, a central
longitudinal axis 20L extends concentrically throughout the
length of the tubular body.      The imaging sensor has an imaging
sensor axis   (a primary viewing axis) 20S, extending at a
perpendicular to the sensor surface and intersecting a
radially facing surface of the prism.       As illustrated, the
central longitudinal axis and the imaging sensor axis
intersect at about a     900 angle.   In alternative
configurations, the angle is within the range of from about
70*  and 1100,  or within the range of from about 850 and 95'.
The angle may be greater than or less than 900       depending upon
the desired configuration.
[0030]     In any of the embodiments disclosed herein, a prism
viewing axis   20P   (a secondary viewing axis, which is the line
of sight through the cannula, from the prism to the distal end
of the cannula) intersects a distal surface of the prism, and
extends axially distally through the tubular body toward
target tissue.     In some implementations the prism viewing axis
intersects the central longitudinal axis of the cannula at
about the distal end of the cannula, or within about 4 cm or 2
cm or less from the distal end of the cannula.        The prism
overhangs the cannula lumen by no more than about 25% of the
                                    9

213/913PCT
inside diameter of the lumen, generally by no more than about
15%  or 10%  or less of the inside diameter of the lumen.      For
this reason, the secondary viewing axis typically resides at
an angle to the central longitudinal axis.       Depending on the
type of prism used, the prism viewing angle may be
perpendicular to the distal optical surface of the prism       (for
a reflective, right angle prism shown in the figures,      in which
the long surface is used as the roof,     for example),  and the
prism may be disposed over the cannula lumen such that the
distal optical surface is tilted slightly, relative to the
transverse plane of the cannula, to aim the prism viewing axis
at the desired point, such as an intersection with the central
longitudinal axis of the cannula at the distal end of the
cannula.    For other reflective and deflective prisms    for which
the viewing angle is not perpendicular to the distal optical
surface, the distal optical     surface can be angled, as
appropriate, to aim the prism viewing axis at the desired
point such as an intersection with the central longitudinal
axis of the cannula at the distal end of the cannula.       Various
forms of prisms may be used, including a pentaprism, half
pentaprism    (a non-inverting and non-reverting prism which
bends light    450 from the prism viewing axis,   so that the
imaging sensor viewing axis may be disposed at about a 45'
angle to the prism viewing axis or the cannula longitudinal
axis),  a Schmidt prism    (an inverting and reverting prism which
bends light    45' from the prism viewing axis,   so that the
imaging sensor viewing axis may be disposed at about a 45'
angle to the prism viewing axis or the cannula longitudinal
axis),  Porro prisms   (an inverting and reverting prism which
displaces the light entering the prism to an offset but
parallel path, so that the imaging sensor viewing axis may be
parallel to but radially displaced from to the prism viewing
axis or the cannula longitudinal axis) or other prisms, or
combinations or configurations of prisms      (and Amici/Penta
                                    10

213/913PCT
prism combination, for example, or a right angle prism
disposed with the long surface facing distally, so that the
right angle surfaces serve the reflecting surfaces to redirect
the image along an anti-parallel path to the prism viewing
axis, optionally paired with a second right angle prism to
redirect the image to a parallel but offset path, or a
Bauerfeind prism),  operable to reflect or displace light from
the distal end of the cannula toward the imaging sensor.
[0031]     In embodiments in which illumination is provided by
lights disposed on the distal end of the cannula tube, any
resultant glare and reflections from the inner wall of the
cannula tube can be minimized by providing baffles on the
interior wall of the tube.    The baffles may comprise ridges
protruding slightly into the lumen, dispersed along the length
of the tube.   Preferably, the ridges are progressively spaced,
such that they are more closely spaced toward the proximal end
of the tube, and relatively more widely spaced toward the
distal end of tube.   Several such ridges are illustrated in
Figure  3, marked as item 21.   The  ridges may be provided in
any form, and may be integral to the cannula tube 6    (for
example, formed during molding) or may be glued or fused onto
the inner wall of the tube, or they may comprise turns of a
coil, or turns of a braid, inserted into the tube or    fused
into the inner wall of the tube, and the coil or braid can
comprise power or data cables associated with the distally
located lights or distally located cameras or sensors.
[0032]     As shown in Figures 7 and 8, a surgeon inserts the
cannula 4 with an obturator 22   into the patient's brain until
distal end 6d of the cannula is sufficiently close to tissue 2
for surgery.   The surgeon then removes the obturator 22    so
that the cannula 4 can be used to provide access, illumination
and visibility for the surgical field.     The surgeon then moves
camera 5, shifting, rotating, or moving it, depending on the
                                  11

213/913PCT
construction, from a standby position to place the prism over
the lumen.   If necessary, the surgeon orients the imaging
system to obtain a view of the surgical field.     With the
camera in place, the surgeon operates the camera to obtain an
image of the surgical field.   Image data from camera 5 is
transmitted to the display 23 to provide image or images 24 of
the surgical field obtained through lumen 8.    The image may
include still images  (photographs) and video.   After placement
of the camera, the  surgeon may pass surgical instruments, or
the distal end of surgical instruments, through the lumen of
the cannula, while the portion of the camera is disposed
within the lumen 8 or the space 14 over the lumen.
[0033]     Figure 9 illustrates an additional structure of the
cannula 4 which provides for easy attachment and detachment of
the camera 5 to the cannula tube 6.   The camera is fixed to
the mounting structure 25,  and the mounting structure is
releasably attachable to the cannula tube.    The mounting
structure comprises a ring, similar to mounting structure and
ring combination shown in the previous figures    (items 7 and
11)  with first locking element such as a groove 26 on the
inside of the ring, and the proximal end of the cannula tube
includes a second, complementary locking element such as a
flange 27,  sized and dimensioned to fit snugly in the groove
of the mounting structure.   The mounting structure may be
snapped onto the cannula, when desired, to position the camera
on the proximal end of the cannula tube, with the prism
overhanging the wall of the cannula tube and disposed over the
lumen 8.   The mounting structure is releasably attached, in
that it may be readily attached and detached by hand, without
the use of tools, during a surgical procedure.     Other
releasable attachment means,  including a friction fit between
the mounting structure and the outside or inside wall of the
cannula tube, or a magnetic attachment   (with paired magnets in
                                 12

213/913PCT
the cannula tube proximal end and in the mounting structure),
or a snap fitting, or a detent arrangement between the
mounting structure and the cannula proximal end, or a threaded
fitting   (with complementary inside and outside threads on the
mounting structure and cannula proximal end, or vice-versa),
or a bayonet mount, with complementary slots and pins on the
mounting structure and cannula proximal end, or vice-versa,
may be used.
[0034]      Also, Figure 9 illustrates an alternative embodiment
of the baffles shown in Figure 3.    In Figure 9, the baffles
comprise turns of a coil 28.    The baffles may also comprise a
braid.   The coil or braid can also comprise the electrical
wires needed to carry power to the lights disposed on the
distal tip of the cannula tube, or a sensor disposed on the
distal tip of the cannula tube, and can also comprise data
cables needed to transmit data from any such distally mounted
sensor to control or display systems associated with the
sensors.
[0035]      Figures 10 and 11 illustrate the camera and cannula
system in which the camera 5 is fixed    (i.e. not releasably
attached) to the cannula tube 6, and the obturator 22     is
modified to pass the camera even as it encroaches on the space
over the lumen of the cannula tube.    In Figure 10,  the
obturator 22   is essentially isodiametric throughout its
length, and has a groove 29 extending along its length      (the
portion disposed within the cannula tube).     The groove is
sized and dimensioned to accommodate the prism that overhangs
the lumen of the cannula tube.    With this construction, the
obturator can be inserted into the cannula tube, and the
assembled cannula and obturator can be pushed into the brain,
while the cannula is in place, fixed to the cannula.      In
Figure  10,  the obturator 22 comprises a large diameter distal
portion 22d, with an outer diameter approximately the same as
                                  13

213/913PCT
the inner diameter of the cannula tube, and a small diameter
rod 30 that fits easily within the lumen of the cannula tube.
The camera is supported on a pylon or post 31.    The post holds
the camera away from the proximal opening of the cannula tube,
at a sufficient distance, compared to the length of the large
diameter portion 22d of the obturator, so that the obturator
may be tilted or bent in order to insert large diameter
portion 22d of the obturator into the lumen without the need
to move the camera.
[0036]    Figures  12 through 19 illustrate a cannula, camera
and obturator system using a cannula and camera system similar
to that illustrated in Figure 11,   with a transmissive
obturator tip which allows a surgeon to see tissue beneath the
obturator tip while inserting the assembled cannula and
obturator into the brain.
[0037]    Figure 12  illustrates a patient 1 with a blood mass
2 in the brain 3 that necessitates surgical intervention, with
a cannula 4 which has been inserted into the brain, with the
distal end of the cannula proximate the blood mass.     A camera
5 is mounted on the proximal rim of the cannula, with a
portion of the camera overhanging the rim of the cannula and
disposed over the lumen of the cannula, and is operable to
obtain video or still images of the distal end of the cannula
lumen, which may include images of an obturator tip in the
cannula or images of a blood mass, brain tissue,   cerebro
spinal fluid  (CSF) or other tissue at the distal end of the
cannula.  As shown in both Figures 12 and 13,   the cannula
comprises a cannula tube 6 with a camera 5 and one or more
light sources  and a mounting structure 7 secured to the
proximal end of the cannula.   The  camera includes a prism,
reflector or other mirror structure or optical element,
overhanging the lumen 8 of the cannula tube.    The camera may
be permanently fixed to the proximal end of the cannula
                                 14

213/913PCT
(meaning that it cannot easily be removed intra-operatively,
without tools or destructive disassembly) or releasably
attached to the proximal end of the cannula    (meaning that it
can be readily attached and detached intraoperatively, without
the need for special tools or destructive disassembly).     A
portion of the camera assembly, such as the prism, reflector
or mirror, extends into the cylindrical space 14 defined by
the lumen of the cannula tube and extending proximally beyond
the proximal end of the cannula, and is spaced from the
proximal end of the cannula, and extends only slightly into
the cylindrical space 14    (by no more than about 25% of the
inside diameter of the lumen, preferably no more than about
15%  or 10%  of the inside diameter of the lumen) so that the
obturator tip, when sized and dimensioned relative to the
proximal spacing of the camera assembly and the intrusion of
the camera assembly component into the cylindrical space 14,
may be tilted to avoid the intruding camera assembly component
and pushed into the proximal end of the cannula.     The camera
may include a simple focusing means, such as a thumbscrew or
slidable post    32, operable by hand to move the imaging sensor
radially inwardly or outwardly to adjust the focus of the
camera to different depths within the cannula or beyond the
distal end of the cannula.
[0038]      The light necessary to provide good visualization of
the blood mass, and obtain images of the blood mass, may be
provided by lights   9  (LED's or other light source, shown in
Figure  13)  disposed at the distal end 6d of the cannula tube,
at or proximate the distal opening.     The cannula itself is
preferably opaque, and non-reflective, or coated with an anti
reflective coating.    The LED's may instead be disposed at the
proximal end of the cannula tube and the light may be
transmitted through optical    fibers, or, if the cannula is made
of a transparent material, the light may be transmitted down
                                   15

213/913PCT
the walls of the cannula tube to exit the distal end of the
cannula wall to illuminate the blood mass.   The ring 11 of the
mounting structure 7 may serve as a shield to block light   from
view from a proximal viewpoint, whether the light emanates
directly from proximally located lights,  or passes through the
cannula tube  (if transparent) from distally located lights.   A
prism, reflector or mirror 12 overhanging the lumen 8 of the
cannula allows the  camera to view down the long axis of the
cannula, if the camera is large such that it must be mounted
with its viewing axis perpendicular to the long axis of the
cannula.   In embodiments in which the light sources are
disposed on the proximal end of the cannula tube, the distal
portion 6d of the cannula tube may be shaped, molded,
machined, treated or otherwise configured to enable the
emergence of light from cannula tube 6 to illuminate the
surgical field.   For example, inner distal surface and or
outer distal surface may be sanded or  frosted to enable
emission of light through the surfaces.   Cables for providing
power to the camera and light source, and carrying image data
from the camera to a display, may be provided, or the device
may be powered by batteries disposed on the device and image
data can be transmitted wirelessly to a display.
[0039]    Figure 13 also illustrates the obturator 33.    The
obturator comprises the obturator tip 34,  shaft  35, handle 36,
and mounting structure 37.   The obturator tip is a solid
structure with a conically convex distal surface 34d, a
conically convex proximal surface 34p, and an axially short
circumferential surface 34c.   The tip, in the region of the
circumferential surface, has an outer diameter   (a transverse
diameter, along a plane perpendicular to the long axis of the
cannula, and corresponding to the transverse cross sectional
diameter of the cannula) that closely matches the inner
diameter of the cannula, but allows easy longitudinal
                                 16

213/913PCT
translation of the tip through the lumen of the cannula.      The
tip, configured as shown in Figure 13,   will act as a lens,
such that light rays   (represented by arrows 38)  are refracted
through the tip, and bent such that any "image" passing
through the tip, when formed as illustrated, may be reversed.
The tip may have a rectilinear longitudinal cross section,
with a central cylindrical portion and distal and proximal
conical portions, as illustrated, or a more rounded cross
section.   The shape illustrated in the Figures may be
described as a dual-ended conical spheroid, but the tip may
also be a sphere, a spheroid, a prolate spheroid     (a football,
rugby ball),  and oblate spheroid, or an ovoid   (egg-shaped).
The distal taper preferably ends in an acutely pointed tip
which is preferred for use in the brain, but may terminate in
a blunt or rounded tip.    The distal surface and proximal
surface need not be symmetric about the longitudinal axis, or
symmetric about a transverse axis.    For example, the distal
surface may be pointed, with a rectilinear cross    section,
while the proximal surface is pointed, rounded, or flat.
[0040]     The obturator tip is optically transmissive, not
optically opaque, and may be optically transparent or
optically translucent.    The transmittance of the tip need only
be adequate,  in the visible spectrum, to pass the color of
tissue in contact with the distal surface, given the
brightness of any illumination provided by the light     sources,
to provide enough transmitted light to the camera and/or eye
of the surgeon to allow the color of tissue around the tip to
be discerned from light transmitted through the proximal
surface of the tip.   The tip may be made of glass, silica,
acrylic, polycarbonate, silicone, nylon, polyamides or
copolymers or any other material suitable for use in a medical
device.   The obturator tip surface may be polished or frosted.
The obturator tip may optionally comprise radiopaque
                                  17

213/913PCT
substances   (elements or compounds such as platinum particles,
for example) to render the tip radiopaque, so that it appears
distinctly under fluoroscopy during surgery.     The obturator
tip may optionally comprise sensors such as pH sensors,
impedance sensors,   force sensors, glucose sensors,  etc., to
assist in detecting a blood mass or CSF and distinguishing
them from surrounding brain tissue.
[0041]     The proximal surface of the tip, which tapers to a
small diameter in the proximal direction, also provides for
clearance of the tip when the obturator must be removed to
make room for other devices.    As shown on Figure 14,  the
convex surface allows for clearance from the camera, with a
slight tilt of the obturator shaft away from the longitudinal
axis of the cannula, so that removal of the obturator is not
blocked by the overhanging prism of the camera assembly.
[0042]     The shaft 35 may be a solid rod or a tube, with a
small diameter, or transverse cross section, compared to the
cannula lumen, so that the tip proximal surface can be viewed
from the cannula proximal end.     If provided as a tube, the
lumen of the shaft may accommodate a neuro-navigation stylet
or probe 39 with passive markers detectable by the neuro
navigation system, useful for guidance of the assembly into
the brain.    The rod 40 of the neuro-navigation stylet may be
inserted into the lumen of tubular shaft, as shown, so that
the assembled cannula, obturator and stylet may be tracked by
a neuro-navigation system, through tracking of the markers 41
on a frame 42 to aid in accurate placement of the distal tip
of the assembly.    The shaft 35 may also accommodate a neuro
starburst connection.    The shaft need not be circular, and may
have a square or oval cross   section, so long as the shaft
transverse cross section is small compared to the cannula
inner diameter so that the tip proximal surface can be viewed
from the cannula proximal end.     The shaft may alternatively
                                  18

213/913PCT
comprise a half-pipe, with an outer dimeter closely matching
the inner diameter of the cannula, with the half-pipe arranged
opposite the camera assembly, leaving a large portion of the
cannula lumen clear for visualization of the tip from the
proximal end of the cannula.
[0043]     The obturator mounting structure 37 includes a
depending rim 43,  with a keyway 44  (see Figure 14)  sized to
friction fit over a strut 45 or other structure of the camera
mount or cannula rim or other component.    Any other suitable
mating means,  such as a notch in the cannula and a matching
rail in the mounting structure, or a depending pin or rim on
the mounting structure which fits into a hole or
circumferential channel in the cannula, may be used.     The
mating means also preferably serves to limit the longitudinal
travel of the obturator relative to the cannula, such that
when the mating means is secured to the cannula, the obturator
distal surface protrudes from the distal end of the cannula.
The mating means,  such as the keyway or notch, may also serve
as a means for registering the rotational position of the tip,
should it be desirable to provide an index indicia on the tip,
to assist a surgeon in identifying the location of features
discernable through the tip, relative to structures on the
proximal end of the assembly.
[0044]     The camera 5 comprises the prism 12,  a lens or
lenses 17  (which may include an achromatic lens or other
doublet),  the imaging device 18 and the control system 19    (if
provided in the camera component of the system).     The lens 17
may be part of an optical assembly that includes additional
optical components.   (For example, a stenopeic aperture may be
positioned in the light path between the prism and the sensor,
preferably between the prism and the lens.    This may be
accomplished by mounting a sheet or applying a mask to the
proximal surface of the prism, containing an aperture having a
                                 19

213/913PCT
diameter within the range of from about 1.0 -    2.0 mm and in
one embodiment about 1.5 mm.)    The imaging device 18 may be
any suitable image sensor such as a CCD sensor or CMOS sensor.
The control system 19 may include a controller, data
processing components and transmitters    such as a controller
and a transmitter to control the camera and transmit data from
the camera   (the data output system may be located off the
device).   Suitable cables or wireless transmitters may be used
to connect the camera to a display system and a power supply.
The imaging sensor is characterized by an imaging plane, and
the prism is aligned with the imaging plane to direct light
rays traveling through the cannula lumen substantially in
parallel or at a non-parallel angle to the imaging plane
toward the imaging plane.    As illustrated, the imaging plane
is parallel to the   long axis of the cannula tube, and the
prism disposed along a line perpendicular to the imaging
plane, and oriented to direct light from the surgical field at
the distal end of the cannula tube onto the imaging plane.
[0045]     Figure 14  illustrates removal of the obturator while
the camera assembly remains fixed to the proximal end of the
cannula.   As shown in Figure 14,   the tapered proximal surface
of the tip allows for removal of the obturator, while the
camera/prism assembly is in place and overhanging the lumen of
the cannula.    The obturator may simply be tilted away from the
long axis of the cannula to clear the camera and prism.     If
the proximal surface of the tip is not tapered, the camera
assembly may be removed momentarily to clear the cylindrical
space over the lumen to allow removal of the obturator.
[0046]     As shown in Figure 13,   a surgeon inserts the cannula
4 with an obturator 33 into the patient's brain until the
distal end 6d of the cannula is sufficiently close to tissue 2
for surgery.    While inserting the cannula and obturator, the
surgeon operates the camera and control system to display an
                                  20

213/913PCT
image of the cannula lumen and structures at the distal end of
the cannula on a display.   Image data from camera 5 is
transmitted to the display 50 to provide an image or images 51
of the structures at the distal end of the cannula through
lumen 8 and the proximal surface of the obturator tip.    The
display may be operated by a control system which is operable
to receive image data from the camera, transmit the image data
to the display, and also add additional images to the display
such as markers, cursors, and indicia of patient data.    If the
cannula lumen is large, the surgeon may directly view the
proximal surface of the obturator tip to view the brain or
blood proximate the distal surface of the obturator tip. 52
[0047]     Figures 15, 16 and 17 depict exemplary images
obtained by the camera while advancing the system through the
brain.  These are exemplary depictions of what a surgeon would
see while pushing the distal tip of the obturator, while
disposed within the cannula with the distal surface of the
obturator extending distally from the distal edge of the
cannula, through the brain and toward a blood mass.    These
images correspond to an insertion toward a blood mass that is
somewhat deep in the brain, below a layer of healthy brain
tissue.   Upon initial insertion into the brain, while the tip
is passing through healthy brain tissue, the surgeon will see
an "image" of the healthy brain tissue, which appears white or
off-white  (various shades of ivory, bone, linen, etc.).   Each
image includes an image of the obturator shaft 35 and the
obturator tip proximal surface 34p, and a portion of the
cannula wall surface 53.   The image will appear as a ring 54
or partial ring, around an outer peripheral portion of the tip
proximal surface.   A marker 55,  corresponding to an index on
the cannula or obturator or a predetermined position relative
to the camera, with or without an index, may be inserted into
the display by the operating software, to inform the surgeon
                                 21

213/913PCT
of the relationship of the displayed image to the position of
the cannula and obturator.    The index may, for example, be the
circumferential position of camera, and the marker can be
imposed on the display in a position opposite the camera      (this
is the configuration shown),   though the marker can be imposed
on the display in any predetermined relationship to the index.
The index can be any feature of cannula or obturator.     These
features are depicted in Figures    15, 16 and 17.  Additional
features visible in these views include a bright    ring 56
inside the image ring 54,  and an epoxy ring 57 used to secure
the obturator shaft to the obturator tip.
[0048]    Upon initial insertion, as the tip enters healthy
brain tissue overlying the blood mass, the ring 54 will appear
white, and the surgeon will see an "image" of the brain
tissue, which appears white   (brain colored).   As the tip
enters the blood mass, the ring 54 will turn red, and the
surgeon will see an "image" of the blood mass, which appears
as blood red or black.   This  is depicted in Figure 16.    If the
tip is located at the margin of the blood mass, the "image"
will include a circumferential portion that is white    (brain
colored) and a circumferential portion that is red or black
(blood-colored), and various shades of both, depending on
thickness of any blood between the tip and the brain tissue
(for example, for circumferential regions of the distal
surface of the tip near the margins of the blood mass, the
corresponding image transmitted through the proximal surface
of the tip will be pinkish, or a mix of the blood and brain
shades.  The surgeon can determine the distal margin    (relative
to the cannula and entry point in the skull) of the blood mass
by pushing the tip further into the brain, after entry into
the blood mass  (as indicated by an image similar to Figure 16)
until an image of brain tissue again appears from the proximal
surface of the tip  (as indicated by an image similar to Figure
                                  22

213/913PCT
15).   The surgeon can determine the lateral extent of the
blood mass   (that it, its width along an axis perpendicular to
the long axis of the cannula) by tilting the assembled cannula
and obturator, to move the tip laterally until an image of
brain tissue is visible on one side of the ring 54.      This is
depicted in Figure 17.    The image will be reversed by the tip
as constructed as shown in Figures 12 and 13,     but may be
reversed by the display system, or it may be reversed by a
reversing prism or a reversing/inverting prism provided as
prism/reflector 12.    As shown Figure 17,   a fiducial marker 58
or other indicia may be imposed on the proximal or distal face
of the obturator tip.    This  fiducial marker may be used by the
surgeon to determine the angular orientation of the obturator
relative to the camera viewing axis, and/or confirm that the
image is displayed without reversal     (so that the displayed
image is actually a reversed image of underlying tissue, as a
result of the lensing effect of the obturator tip) or
displayed with reversal    (so that the image is a proper image
obtained after the   image has been reversed by the control
system, after having been reversed as a result of the lensing
effect of the obturator tip) so that it corresponds to the
underlying tissue structure.     The  control system can be
programmed such that it is operable to determine the presence
or absence of the   fiducial marker in the detected image of the
proximal surface of the obturator tip, and, upon detection of
the fiducial marker, generate a presented image which is
reversed vis-a-vis the detected image, and present the
presented image on the display, or, upon determining that no
fiducial marker appears in the detected image, generate a
presented image which is not    reversed vis-a-vis the detected
image.   When the proximal surface image is reversed by the
control system, the fiducial marker in a reverse image along
with the reverse image of the proximal surface will be
displayed, to indicate to the surgeon that the image displayed
                                   23

213/913PCT
has been reversed, and is oriented relative to the camera
viewing axis  so that left, right, up and down on the display
corresponds to left,  right, up and down relative to the
cannula.   In the illustrated example, the fiducial marker is
the letter B, which is asymmetric, so that reversal is
obvious.   The fiducial marker may take any form recognizable
by the control system, such as a barcode, or a distinctive
array of dots, and is preferably asymmetric.    The fiducial
marker may also be used by the control system, if, in
conjunction with the obturator mount, the fiducial marker is
placed in predetermined relationship with the camera, to
determine the orientation of the captured image and rotate the
displayed image so that the displayed image corresponds
structural features of the cannula system, and thus assist the
surgeon in properly interpreting the displayed image.
[0020B]The obturator tip may be configured to avoid image
reversal, by providing, with the obturator tip, several
longitudinally extending optically opaque structures within
the otherwise optically transmissive tip, or by providing
several optically transmissive longitudinally extending
structures within an otherwise optically opaque tip, to
comprise an overall optically transmissive tip through which
light from the distal surface is transmitted through the
optically transmissive  structures  (and thus avoids reversal of
the single piece structure of Figures   1 through 3).  This is
illustrated in Figure 18,  which shows the obturator tip 34
with a plurality of light transmissive elements   59 extending
longitudinally from the distal face 34d, along the
circumferential surface 34c, to the proximal face 34p of the
obturator tip.   These elements may be separated by
longitudinally opaque elements  60 extending longitudinally
from the distal face 34d to the proximal face 34p of the
obturator tip, or they may be discrete elements disposed
immediately abutting adjacent discrete opaque elements, such
                                 24

213/913PCT
that each light transmissive element transmits light      from the
distal face to the proximal face without reversal of the
overall image.    The light transmissive elements may extend to
the outer surface of the circumferential surface, as      shown, or
they may be embedded below the circumferential surface.
Figure  19 illustrates another non-reversing configuration of
the obturator tip 34.     This obturator tip includes the
conically convex distal surface 34d, an axially short
circumferential surface 34c, without the conically convex
proximal surface 34p shown in Figure 13,     and includes an
annular groove   61,  in the proximal surface, extending from the
proximal extent of the obturator tip toward the distal
surface, between a circumferential wall portion 34w, in the
longitudinal region of the circumferential surface and the
socket or hosel   62,  extending from the distal portion of the
tip, with bore   63 into which the obturator shaft    (item 35 of
Figure  13)  is inserted.
[0049]      For any of the embodiments disclosed herein, the
tubular body may be provided with at least about 4 light
sources,  and in some implementations at least about 10 or     15
or 20 or 30 or more light sources     such as LED's.   In one
implementation at least about 35 or 40 LED's are     carried on
the tubular body and exposed to the central lumen.       Some or
all of the LED's can be right angle LED's.
[0050]      The light sources may be positioned within about 50%
or 30%  or 20%  or 10%  or less of the length of the tubular body
from the distal end.     In some implementations, the light
sources are positioned within about 5 cm or about 3 cm or
about 1 or 2 cm from the distal end.      The plurality of light
sources may reside on a common transverse plane, or a ring of
light sources may reside substantially on a common transverse
plane  (meaning the   light sources in that ring may have a small
                                   25

213/913PCT
axial position variation but are within about +/-    1 cm or  0.5
cm or less of a transverse plane).
[0051]     The tubular body may be provided with a first,
distal ring of light sources positioned distally of a second,
proximal ring of light  sources.   At least a third,
intermediate ring of light sources may be positioned in
between the first and second rings.    The rings may be
separated by at least about 2cm and in some implementations at
least about 3 cm or 4 cm or more.
[0052]     If only a single light  source or ring of light
sources  is provided at the distal end of the tubular body, the
light source may become obstructed if blood enters the lumen
at the distal end of the tubular body.     Providing at least one
and preferably two or more secondary light    sources spaced
axially apart proximally along the length of the lumen allows
continuity of light in the event that one or more distal light
sources becomes obstructed.
[0053]     The systems can be configured as a thermally stable
system for accessing and imaging an intracranial hemorrhage.
When so configured, the device may comprise an elongate
tubular body, having a proximal end, a distal end, and a
lumen;  a plurality of LED light sources   carried by the tubular
body within about the distal most 30%    or 20% or 10% of the
length of the tubular body;  and a sensor/camera mounted at the
proximal end of the tubular body.    The  lumen accommodates
simultaneous viewing of the ICH site while performing
procedures on the  ICH.  Operation of the LED light sources    in
ambient air at STP for at least   60 minutes at an intensity of
at least about 3,000 lumens elevates the distal end of the
tubular body by no more than about 220C or    170C or 100C  (40'F
or 30'F or 20*F).   Preferably, operation of the LED's within
the range of from about 3500 to about 4500 lumens elevates the
                                 26

213/913PCT
distal end of the tubular body by no more than about 220C or
170C or 100C   (40*F or 30*F or 20*F).  Operation of the device
in vivo for an inter-operative time frame needed to treat an
ICH  (typically 30 to 60 minutes) will preferably elevate
tissue in contact with the distal end to a temperature of no
more than about 450C, optimally no more than about 43 or 40*C.
[0054]     The access and imaging device may comprise at least
3 LEDs and optionally at least about 10 or 20 or 30 LED's
within the most distal 30%   of the length of the tubular body.
The LED's may be positioned in the same transverse plane, or
at least one and preferably a plurality of LED's in each of a
first and second and optionally third or fourth transverse
planes  spaced axially apart along the length of the tubular
body.   At least one and preferably a plurality of the LED's
are right angle LED's.    At least one LED operates at a
wavelength of from about 300 nm to about 1 mm, preferably
within the range of from about 390 nm to about 700 nm.    A
first set of LED's may operate at a first wavelength in the
visible range, and a second set of LED's may operate at a
second, different wavelength, such as in the infrared range.
Alternatively, at least one and preferably a plurality of
LED's are tunable between the first and second wavelengths.
[0055]     The access and imaging device may additionally
comprise an optical element carried by the proximal end and
positioned within an optical path between the sensor and the
distal end.   The optical element may comprise a prism, a
mirror or other reflector, having a distally facing surface.
The central lumen may have a longitudinal axis extending
concentrically therethrough;   the imaging sensor has a primary
viewing axis;   and the longitudinal axis and the primary
viewing axis  intersect at the optical element at an angle.
The angle is greater than zero degrees and in some
implementations may be within the range of   from about 700 and
                                  27

213/913PCT
1100,  or within the range of from about 850   and 95'.   The
prism bends light rays propagating proximally through the
tubular body and directs them laterally to the sensor.
[0056]     The distal surface of the prism overhangs the
central lumen by no more than about 25% of the inside diameter
of the lumen, preferably no more than about 15%    or 10%  of the
inside diameter of the lumen.     The prism may be rigidly
mounted or adjustably mounted with respect to the tubular
body.   A prism viewing axis   (the secondary viewing axis)
extends at a perpendicular to the distal optical surface of
the prism, and the prism viewing axis is non-parallel to the
central longitudinal axis of the tubular body.     The prism
viewing axis may intersect the central longitudinal axis at a
point spaced apart  from the proximal end by a distance within
the range of from about 80%   and 120%  of the length of the
tubular body and preferably at a point spaced apart from the
proximal end by a distance within the range of from about 95%
and 105%  of the length of the tubular body.
[0057]     The sensor may capture images in either or both the
visible and at least one non-visible wavelength, such as
infrared.   Alternatively, a first sensor with sensitivity in
the visible and a second sensor with sensitivity in the
infrared may be provided.    A beam splitter may be provided to
direct reflected light to each of the two sensors.      The sensor
may be provided with control circuitry, for providing control
of digital zoom, contrast, brightness,    saturation, sharpness,
white balance, and horizontal and vertical alignment and
rotation.
[0058]     The systems can be configured as   self-contained
medical visualization and access devices.     When so configured,
the device may comprises an elongate tubular body, having a
proximal end, a distal end, and a working channel extending
                                   28

213/913PCT
therethrough;  and a sensor carried by the proximal end and
configured to capture image data propagated in free space
through the working channel, where the relationship between
the sensor and the working channel is fixed, and manipulation
of surgical tools and visualization may be simultaneously
accomplished through the working channel.     That is,  the
surgeon can insert a tool, such as a aspirator or macerator,
without having to remove the camera to make way for the tools,
and continue viewing a display of an image obtained by the
camera while manipulating the tool tips within the surgical
field at or beyond the distal end of the cannula.      The device
may further comprise an optical element such as a prism,
mirror or other reflector for directing image data from the
working channel laterally to the sensor.    A  secondary viewing
axis  (from the prism distal face to the distal end of the
cannula) extending distally from the prism through free space
in the working channel intersects a central longitudinal axis
of the working channel at a point that is at least about 75%
of the length of the tubular body from the proximal end.      A
self-contained medical visualization and access device may
also further comprise a plurality of LED's within the working
channel as described previously.
[0059]     Any of the foregoing devices may additionally be
provided with glare reduction optimization.     For example, the
central lumen may be provided with a plurality of optical
baffles in between a distal light   source and the proximal end
to inhibit glare from reflected light   from the light   source in
a proximal direction.   At least 3 and preferably more light
sources are carried by the interior wall of the tubular body,
positioned within about 50%  and preferably within about 20% of
the length of the tubular body from the distal end.      The
optical baffles may comprise a polarizing grating, which may
be carried by the light  source and/or carried adjacent the
                                 29

213/913PCT
sensor.  Alternatively, the optical baffles may comprise a
mechanical surface  structure on the interior wall such as a
plurality of axially spaced apart ridges or grooves or a
surface texture which dissipates reflection.   The mechanical
surface structure may comprise a helical ridge or channel, or
discrete circular rings  surrounding the central lumen and
spaced axially apart.   A helical ridge may be formed
integrally with the tubular body, or by introducing a helical
structure such as a spring into the central lumen.
[0060]     Any of the foregoing may be provided with a focus
and/or depth of field adjustability by moving optical
components along an axis other than the central longitudinal
axis, thereby optimizing access to the central lumen for use
of the obturator or surgical tools and preserving direct line
of sight viewing through the central lumen.
[0061]     For example, the intracranial hemorrhage
visualization and access device may comprise an elongate
tubular body, having a proximal end, a distal end, and a
central lumen.   A sensor may be carried by the proximal end,
configured to capture focused images of tissue beyond the
distal end of the tubular body and within a depth of  field.
Movement of an optical element radially inwardly or outwardly
with respect to the longitudinal axis of the tubular body
changes a focal length captured by the sensor.   The optical
element may be the  sensor, or may be a lens.
[0062]     A prism may be carried by the proximal end and
configured to direct an image propagated through free space
through the central lumen to the sensor.   An optical aperture
may be provided in a light path between the prism and the
sensor.  In some implementations, the aperture has a diameter
within the range of from about 1.3 mm to about 1.7 mm.    The
prism may be immovably secured to the tubular body.   The
                                 30

213/913PCT
optical system may additionally comprise a lens in the optical
path and an adjustment control such as a knob for optical
magnification of the target tissue.
[0063]     Any of the optical elements disclosed herein, at the
proximal end of the free space light path extending through
the central lumen   (e.g., a prism) may have a planar distal
optical surface, and a secondary viewing axis extending
through the central lumen at a perpendicular to the distal
optical surface.    The tubular body may be characterized by a
central longitudinal axis, and the secondary viewing axis
intersects the central longitudinal axis near the distal end
of the tubular body, at a point spaced apart from the proximal
end by a distance within the range of    from about 80% to about
120%  of the length of the tubular body;   in some
implementations within the range of from about 95% to about
105%  of the length of the tubular body.
[0064]     The prism may bend light to an angle within the
range of from about 700 to about 1100    from the secondary
viewing axis   (the prism viewing axis) toward the primary
viewing axis,   and, in some implementations within the range of
from about 850 to about 950   from the prism viewing axis.    The
prism may overhang the central lumen by no more than about 25%
of the inside diameter of the central lumen, and preferably no
more than about 15%   of the inside diameter of the central
lumen.   The prism may bend light to an angle within the range
of from about 700   to about 1100  from the secondary viewing
axis, and, in some implementations within the range of from
about 850 to about   950 from the secondary viewing axis.   The
prism may overhang the central lumen by no more than about 25%
of the inside diameter of the central lumen, and preferably no
more than about 15%   of the inside diameter of the central
lumen.
                                  31

213/913PCT
[0065]     A feature of the devices described in reference to
Figures  1 through 9 is the obstruction resistant optical path.
Should the system include a distally located optical element
(such as a window or lens positioned at or near the distal end
of the sheath),  the image can become obstructed by blood or
other tissue coming into contact with the distal optical
surface.   This necessitates removal of the device to clear the
surface.   By positioning the distal most optical surface at
the proximal end of the sheath, the optical surface is spaced
well apart from the surgical field and the risk of blood or
debris contacting the optical surface is minimized.    Thus, an
enhanced optical performance visualization system for an
access device may comprise an elongate tubular body, having a
proximal end, a distal end, and a central lumen extending
axially therethrough, without an optical element immovably
fixed at the distal end of the elongate tubular body    (though
allowing for the removable obturator shown in Figures    12
through 19).   An optical system may be provided, comprising a
sensor, a lens and a distal most optical surface facing in a
distal direction to capture images beyond the distal end of
the sheath.   The optical surface is spaced apart from the
distal end by at least about 80%   or 90% of the length of the
tubular body such that it is out of range of splashes or
debris disrupted by a surgical procedure conducted through the
central lumen.   In different implementations, the optical
surface may be positioned at least about 50 mm and in some
embodiments at least about 75 mm or 100 mm or 120 mm or more
proximally from the distal end of the sheath.
[0066]     A feature of the devices described in reference to
Figures  12 through 19 include the obturator, which is
configured for off-axis introduction into the proximal end of
the sheath, and the optically translucent distal tip.     The
obturator may comprise an elongate support and an obturator
                                 32

213/913PCT
tip at the distal end of the support.   The obturator tip may
have a proximal surface which has a tapered surface which
tapers radially inwardly in the proximal direction.   The
proximal surface may be radially symmetric, such as in the
shape of a cone.   A cylindrical section may extend distally
from a distal end of the proximal surface, dimensioned for
sliding close fit within the sheath.   A distal surface may
comprise a conical distal section in which the diameter tapers
radially inwardly in the distal direction.   Preferably the
body is at least translucent and optionally transparent to
light such as light in the visible range, though the advantage
of off-axis insertion of the obturator may be obtained with an
opaque obturator tip, as in Figure 11.   The support may be
tubular and may contain electrical or optical conductors such
as to operate an infra-red mapping sensor carried by the
obturator body preferably at the distal end.   The distal
conical surface is helpful in advancing through soft tissue,
while the proximal conical surface facilitates removal of the
obturator without the need to displace the prism or other
optical element overhanging the central lumen at the proximal
end of the sheath.
[0067]     Thus an intracranial hemorrhage visualization and
access system may comprise an elongate tubular body, having a
proximal end, a distal end, a central lumen and a longitudinal
axis extending therethrough.   A sensor carried by the proximal
end is configured to capture image data through the central
lumen, the sensor having a primary viewing axis.   An optical
element carried by the proximal end overhangs and extends into
the path of a proximal extension of the central lumen.    An
obturator is axially advanceable through the central lumen.
The overhanging optical element interferes with introduction
of the obturator into the proximal end of the sheath along the
central longitudinal axis of the sheath, but the obturator is
                                 33

213/913PCT
configured to enter the proximal end of the sheath along an
entry axis that resides at an angle to the central
longitudinal axis and then the support may be rotated into
parallel or concentric with the central longitudinal axis of
the sheath and the obturator may thereafter be advanced
axially through the lumen to the distal end coaxially with the
tubular body.   The axial length of the cylindrical section is
less than the distance from the proximal end of the central
lumen to the optical element.   Thus, the portion of the camera
portion of the camera overhanging the lumen is spaced
proximally from the proximal end of the cannula to accommodate
passage of the obturator tip, and the obturator tip is
configured to pass into the cannula lumen while the portion of
the camera overhanging the lumen is in place overhanging the
lumen.
[0068]     The obturator tip is preferably sufficiently
optically transmissive that color changes beyond the distal
surface can be identified by direct visualization of the
proximal surface.   This enables the clinician to see when the
distal surface is in contact with brain tissue, clot or
cerebrospinal fluid.   In one implementation, the obturator is
additionally provided with a sensor such as an IR sensor.
[0069]     While the preferred embodiments of the devices and
methods have been described in reference to the environment in
which they were developed, they are merely illustrative of the
principles of the inventions.   The devices may be used various
intracerebral procedures such as intra-ventricular hemorrhage
procedures, neuro-stimulation procedures, and tumor resection.
The elements of the various embodiments may be incorporated
into each of the other species to obtain the benefits of those
elements in combination with such other species, and the
various beneficial features may be employed in embodiments
alone or in combination with each other.   Other embodiments
                                 34

and configurations may be devised without departing from the
spirit of the inventions and the scope of the appended claims.
 [0070]     Throughout       this   specification       and   the     claims   which
follow,    unless   the        context      requires    otherwise,        the   word
"comprise",   and variations       such as "comprises"        and "comprising",
will   be understood     to    imply the       inclusion   of  a  stated    integer
or step or group of integers or steps but not                  the exclusion of
any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
 [0071]     The reference to any prior art               in this     specification
is   not, and  should not be        taken       as, an acknowledgement        or any
form of   suggestion that the prior art              forms part of the common
general knowledge in Australia.
                                          35

WHAT IS  CLAIMED IS:
1.   A cannula system for accessing a surgical field, said
cannula system comprising:
     a cannula comprising a cannula tube with a proximal end and
        a distal end and a lumen extending from the proximal end
        to the distal end; and
     a camera assembly secured to the proximal end of the
        cannula, with a portion of the camera assembly
        overhanging the lumen and extending into the lumen or a
        cylindrical space defined by the lumen of the cannula
        tube and extending therefrom.
2.   The cannula system of claim 1, wherein:
     the camera assembly comprises an imaging sensor and a lens
        and a prism, and the prism is the portion of the camera
        overhanging the lumen.
3.   The cannula system of claim 2, wherein a component of the
camera assembly is translatable radially inwardly or outwardly
with respect to the cannula to change a focal length of the
camera.
4.   The cannula system of claim 3 wherein the component of the
camera assembly which is translatable is the imaging sensor.
5.   The cannula system of claim 3 wherein the component of the
camera assembly which is translatable is the lens.
6.   The cannula system of claim 3 wherein the component of the
camera assembly which is translatable is the prism.
                                36

7.    The cannula system of claim 2 wherein the prism is
characterized by a distally facing surface and a prism viewing
axis which extends through the lumen, and wherein an imaging
sensor viewing axis is substantially perpendicular to the prism
viewing axis.
8.    The cannula system of claim 7, wherein the prism viewing
axis extends through the lumen at a perpendicular to the
distally facing surface of the prism.
9.    The cannula system of claim 7, wherein the prism viewing
axis intersects a central long axis of the cannula at a point
spaced apart from the proximal end of the cannula by a distance
within the range of about 80%    to 120% of the length of the
cannula tube.
10.   The cannula system of claim 7, wherein the prism viewing
axis intersects a long axis of the cannula at a point spaced
apart from the proximal end of the cannula by a distance within
the range of about   95% to 105%  of the length of the cannula
tube.
11.      The cannula system of Claim 8, wherein the prism bends
light to an angle within the range of    from about 700 to about
1100  from the prism viewing axis.
12.   The cannula system of Claim 11, wherein the prism bends
light to an angle within the range of    from about 85' to about
950  from the prism viewing axis.
13.   The cannula system of Claim 4, wherein the prism overhangs
the lumen by no more than about 25%    of the inside diameter of
the lumen.
                                   37

14.  The cannula system of Claim 13, wherein the prism overhangs
the lumen by no more than about 15%  of the inside diameter of
the lumen.
15.  The cannula system of Claim 1, comprising at least 4 light
sources carried by the cannula tube and exposed to the lumen.
16.  The cannula system of Claim 15, wherein the light sources
are positioned within about 50% of the length of the tubular
body from the distal end.
17.  The cannula system of Claim 16, wherein at least one of the
light sources is positioned within about 25% of the length of
the tubular body from the distal end.
18.  The cannula system of Claim 15, wherein the light sources
comprise an LED.
19.  The cannula system of Claim 18, wherein the light sources
comprise a right angle LED.
20.  The cannula system of Claim 18,  further comprising an
optical baffle in the lumen.
21. The cannula system of claim 2 wherein the prism overhangs
the lumen by no more than about 25%  of the inside diameter of
the lumen.
22.  The cannula system of claim 2, wherein the prism overhangs
the lumen by no more than about 15%  of the inside diameter of
the lumen.
23.  The cannula system of claim 21,  further comprising a
plurality of light sources carried by the cannula tube.
                                38

24.  The cannula system of claim 23, wherein the plurality of
light sources are within the distal most 50% of the length of
the cannula tube.
25.  The cannula system of claim 24, wherein the plurality of
light sources are within the distal most 30% of the length of
the cannula tube.
26.  The cannula system of claim 21, wherein the prism is
rigidly mounted with respect to the cannula tube.
27.  The cannula system of claim 21, wherein the prism comprises
a planar distal optical surface, and a prism viewing axis
extends at a perpendicular to the distal optical surface, and is
non parallel to a longitudinal axis.
28.  The cannula system of claim 27, wherein the prism viewing
axis intersects the longitudinal axis at a point spaced apart
from the proximal end by a distance within the range of from
about 80% and 120% of the length of the cannula tube.
29.  The cannula system of claim 27, wherein the prism viewing
axis intersects the longitudinal axis at a point spaced apart
from the proximal end by a distance within the range of from
about 95% and 105% of the length of the cannula tube.
30.  The cannula system of claim 27, wherein the sensor is
rigidly mounted with respect to the cannula tube.
                                39

31.  A medical visualization and access device, comprising:
     an elongate tubular body, having a proximal end, a distal
        end, and a working channel extending therethrough;  and
     a sensor carried by the proximal end and configured to
        capture image data propagated in free space through the
        working channel;
     wherein the relationship between the sensor and the working
        channel is fixed, and manipulation of  surgical tools and
        visualization may be simultaneously accomplished through
        the working channel.
32.  A medical visualization and access device as in Claim 31,
further comprising an optical element  for directing image data
from the working channel laterally to the sensor.
33.  A medical visualization and access device as in Claim 32,
wherein the optical element comprises a prism.
34.  A medical visualization and access device as in Claim 33,
wherein a prism viewing axis extending distally from the prism
through free space in the working channel intersects a central
longitudinal axis of the working channel at a point that is at
least about 75%  of the length of the tubular body from the
proximal end.
35.  A medical visualization and access device as in Claim 34,
further comprising a plurality of LED's within the working
channel.
                                 40

36. The cannula system of claim 1 further comprising
    a mounting structure disposed on the proximal end of the
       cannula tube; wherein
    the camera assembly is disposed on the mounting structure,
       and the camera assembly is translatable within the
       mounting structure from a first position in which the
       camera assembly extends into the lumen or a cylindrical
       space defined by the lumen of the cannula tube and
       extending therefrom, to a second position in which the
       camera assembly resides outside of lumen or the
       cylindrical space defined by the lumen of the cannula
       tube.
37. The cannula system of claim 1 wherein:
    the camera assembly comprises an imaging sensor and a
       prism, and the prism is the portion of the camera
       assembly overhanging and partially obstructing the lumen;
       wherein
    the imaging sensor has an imaging plane, and the prism is
       aligned with the imaging plane to direct light directed
       parallel to the imaging plane toward the imaging plane.
38. The cannula system of claim 37 further comprising:
    a mounting structure disposed on the proximal end of the
       cannula tube; wherein
    the camera assembly is disposed on the mounting structure,
       and the camera assembly is translatable within the
       mounting structure from a first position in which the
       prism extends into the lumen or a cylindrical space
                               41

         defined by the lumen of the cannula tube and extending
         therefrom, to a second position in which the camera
         assembly resides outside of lumen or the cylindrical
         space defined by the lumen of the cannula tube.
39.   The cannula system of claim 1 further comprising a light
source secured to the distal end of the cannula tube.
40.   The cannula system of claim 39, further comprising a
plurality of baffles protruding into the lumen of the cannula
tube.
41.   The cannula system of claim 36 further comprising a light
source disposed at the proximal end of the cannula tube, wherein
the cannula tube has a distal portion having an inner surface
and an outer surface and the inner surface and the outer surface
are configured to enable the emergence of light   from the cannula
tube.
                                 42

          212/213PCT
<removed-date>
                                    1/9
                                5
                                          4   1
<removed-apn>
                   Fig. 1   2
                                              3

          212/213PCT
<removed-date>
                                                                  2/9
                                          11         6p
                                                                  4
                                                                                                                       5
                        12
                                                                                                                     12
                                                                                                                           7
<removed-apn>
                    5                                         6                                                  8
                                                                                                                                11
                                      7
                                               10
                                                                                        6d
                                                                                                        Fig. 4
                                      Fig. 2
                                                                                              9
                                                                                         8
                                                                                   9
                Fig. 3                    20P
                                  5             12
                                                                        Fig. 5
                                                         11                                           13A
                                                                   13S                                                   14
                                                                                    12                      7
                                  7
                                                     21                                                                                    11
                              6p
                              21
                                                                  5      15        16
                4                                                                        6p
                                          8                                                                          8
                                  6
                                                                                                  5
                                                                        Fig. 6                              17             12
                                                         21
                             6d
                                                                                                                                     20S
                                  9
                                                     9
                                                         2                    19             18
                                           20C

          212/213PCT
<removed-date>
                                             3/9
                         23
                                      13S
                                            22
                                                 4
<removed-apn>
                                      5
                                  2
                                             3
                              1
                       Fig. 7
                                                           23
                                                                        13A
                                                                        5
                                                 24                 2
                                                                              3
                                                                1
                                                      Fig. 8

          212/213PCT
<removed-date>
                                                            4/9
                  Fig. 9
                                                       12
                         5                                               31   11
                              12
<removed-apn>
                                                   5                                   6p
                                        25                                                      Fig. 11
                   25                   26
                    27
                                        28                                                  6
                     6p
                     28                                                  7
              4                8                                                                          6d
                                                                                       30                  9
                         6
                                            28
                    6d                                                                            22d
                         9
                                        9
                                   2
                                            22
                                              11       6p
                         29                                      Fig. 10
                                   12
                               5                             6
                                            7
                                                                               6d
                                                                                   9
                                                                                       22
                                                                    29

          212/213PCT
<removed-date>
                                             5/9
                     Fig. 12
<removed-apn>
                               50
                                                                    30
                                                   5
                                        52
                                                                33
                                                               32
                51                                 7
                                                                4
                                                           8
                                                       6
                                                       2            3
                                    1

          212/213PCT
<removed-date>
                                                         6/9
                                                                                             41
                 Fig. 13
<removed-apn>
                                          41
                                                        19
                                                                                  42
                                                                              41
                                               5        17
                                                                   12
                                                                             40
                                     18                                                      36
                           32
                                19                                                                7
                                                                                             25
                                               45                                       17
                                                                                        43
                                                                                   10
                                                   6p
                                                              33         8
                                                                                   6
                                                                              35
                                                                                  9
                                                                                  9
                                                             34p
                                                   6d                          9
                                                         34                   34c
                                                                    38       34d

          212/213PCT
<removed-date>
                                               7/9
                                                                                      36
                 Fig. 14
                                                                              37
<removed-apn>
                                                                             43
                                                                        44
                                              17                     35
                                     5
                                                     12
                                19
                                                              34p
                           18
                                                                                  7
                                     45                                      45
                                                                     10
                                         6p                    34d
                                                          8
                                                                    6
                                                                9
                                                                9
                                         6d                     9

          212/213PCT
<removed-date>
                                          8/9
                 Fig. 15
                                                55
<removed-apn>
                                                     53
                           50
                                                     54
                                                     56
                                57
                                                     35
                                     51
                                                55
                 Fig. 16   50                        53
                                                     54
                                                     56
                                57
                                                     35
                                     51
                                                55
                 Fig. 17                             53
                           50
                                          B          54
                                58                   56
                                57                   35
                                     51

          212/213PCT
<removed-date>
                                                  9/9
                       Fig. 18
<removed-apn>
                                                                         34p
                                 58                                            57
                                                                                34
                                 57                                      58
                                   58
                                        57                         57
                                                  58
                                                             34d
                                             51         61
                       Fig. 19
                                                                              60
                                                                                    34c
                                                                                     34
                                                                        34d

