   ABSTRACT
   The present invention pertains to a new type of high protein, fruit flavoured beverage
 5 comprising fruit flavouring agents and high protein denatured whey protein composi
   tions, and to a method of producing the beverage. The invention particularly pertains to
   fruit flavoured beverages having a protein content of at least 4% (w/w). The invention
   furthermore relates to high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparations which e.g. are
   advantageous for the production of high protein, fruit- and/or vegetable-flavoured yo
10 ghurt. The invention also relates to food products containing the high protein fruit
   and/or vegetable preparations and to method for producing these.

   HI GH PROTEIN, FRUIT FLAVOURED BEVERAGE; HI GH PROTEIN, FRUIT AND
   VEGETABLE PREPARATION; AND RELATED METHODS AND FOOD PRODUCTS
   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 5 The present invention pertains to a new type of high protein, fruit flavoured beverage
   comprising fruit flavouring agents and high protein denatured whey protein composi
   tions, and to a method of producing the beverage. The invention particularly pertains to
   fruit flavoured beverages having a protein content of at least 4% (w/w). The invention
   furthermore relates to high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparations which e.g. are
10 advantageous for the production of high protein, fruit- and/or vegetable-flavoured yo
   ghurt. The invention also relates to food products containing the high protein fruit
   and/or vegetable preparations and to a method for producing these.
   BACKGROUND
15 Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be consid
   ered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common gen
   eral knowledge in the field.
   Denatured, microparticulated whey protein concentrates have for long been used as a
20 food ingredient for the production of e.g. cheese or yoghurt. Traditionally, the products
   have been produced by heating a whey protein solution having a neutral to acidic pH to
   a protein denaturing temperature whereby whey protein gel is formed, and subsequent
   ly subjecting the gel to high shear conditions so as to convert the gel to microparticles,
   which can be converted to a powder by spray-drying.
25
   US 5,096,731 B2 discloses a yoghurt where all or part of the fat and/or oil of the yogurt
   is replaced with microparticulated protein comprising substantially non-aggregated par
   ticles of denatured protein having a mean diameter of 0.5 - 2 microns when in a dry
   state.
30
   US 6,605,311 B2 discloses insoluble, denatured, heat-stable protein particles having a
   mean diameter of 0.1 - 3 microns when in a hydrated state, which are dispersible in
   aqueous solutions and are used in food and beverage products. Example 12 of US
   6,605,311 B2 describes a ready-to-drink, juice-containing beverage containing approx.
35 1.5% (w/w) denatured whey protein.
                                                 1

   It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the
   disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
 5
   The present inventors have found that it is challenging to prepare fruit and/or vegetable
   flavoured high protein dairy products, and particularly liquid dairy products, because the
   addition of conventional fruit preparation, which normal has a low protein content, di
   lutes the protein content of the other ingredients. Fruit-flavoured yoghurt is convention
10 ally prepared by producing a non-flavoured acidified white base which is then mixed
   with the fruit preparation. If a high protein white base is to be used (containing e.g.
   10% (w/w) total protein) and is to be mixed with a conventional fruit preparation (con
   taining e.g. 0.5% (w/w) total protein) in the proportion 2 parts white base to 1 part
   fruit preparation, the resulting fruit-flavoured yoghurt would only have a total protein
15 content of approx. 6.8% (w/w).
   The present inventors have invented a new type of fruit preparation (or fruit and/or
   vegetable preparation) which contains a significant amount of protein in addition to the
   fruit material that is normally present in the preparation. Examples of the preparation of
20 high protein fruit preparations are described in Examples 4-5.
   Example 6-7 demonstrate that it is possible to prepare a high protein, fruit-flavoured
   dairy product without diluting the protein content of the white yoghurt base - which
   would not be the case if conventional pectin-based fruit preparation was used. The ex
25 amples furthermore demonstrate that the high protein fruit preparation can be used to
   give the final yoghurt product a higher protein content than that of the white base.
   According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a heat-treated,
   high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation suitable for the production of fruit
30 and/or vegetable-flavour yoghurt, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation comprising:
   - a fruit and/or vegetable material in an amount of at least 10% (w/w)
   - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an
   amount of at least 2% (w/w),
   the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a total solids content in the range of 15
35 80% (w/w).
   According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a method of producing a
   high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation the method comprising the steps of:
                                                  2

   1) providing:
   - a fruit and/or vegetable material,
   - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron,
   - optionally, extra water, and
 5 - optionally, one or more additional ingredients,
   2) combining the fruit and/or vegetable material, the insoluble protein particles having a
   particle size in the range of 1-10 micron, optionally extra water, and optionally also the
   one or more additional ingredients to obtain a mixture wherein the fruit and/or vegeta
10 ble material is present in an amount of at least 10% (w/w) and wherein the insoluble
   whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron is present in an
   amount of at least 2% (w/w), and
   3) heat-treating the mixture of step 2) thereby obtaining the heat-treated high protein
15 fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
   According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a food product comprising
   the heat-treated, high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to the
   invention.
20
   According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided a high protein acidified
   dairy product comprising at least 4% (w/w) protein, said high protein acidified dairy
   product comprising the heat-treated, high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation
   according to the invention.
25
   According to a fifth aspect of the invention there is provided a method of producing the
   food product according to the invention, the method comprising the steps of
   - providing a fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to the invention,
   - providing one or more additional ingredients, and
30 - combining, and optionally also processing, the one or more additional ingredients and
   the fruit and/or vegetable preparation, thereby producing the food product.
   According to a sixth aspect of the invention there is provided a method of producing a
   high protein acidified dairy product, the method comprising the steps of:
35
   a) providing a pasteurised dairy base
   b) providing a heat-treated fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to the inven
   tion,
40
                                                  3

   c) contacting the pasteurised dairy base with a chemical or microbial acidifying agent,
   thereby obtaining the pre-acidification mixture,
   and
 5
   d-variant 1) packaging the fruit and/or vegetable preparation and the pre-acidification
   mixture in the same container and allowing the pre-acidification mixture to acidify in the
   container, or
10 d-variant 2) allowing the pre-acidification mixture to acidify, optionally processing the
   acidified mixture, and packaging a combination of the acidified mixture and heat-treated
   fruit prep.
   Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
15 claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclu
   sive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense
   of "including, but not limited to". The terms "comprising" and "containing" are used
   interchangeably.
20 Thus, an embodiment of the invention pertains to a heat-treated, high protein fruit
   and/or vegetable preparation suitable for the production of fruit- and/or vegetable
   flavoured yoghurt, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation comprising:
   - a fruit and/or vegetable material in an amount of at least 10% (w/w)
   - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an
25 amount of at least 2% (w/w),
   - the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a total solids content in the range of 15
   80% (w/w).
   Yet an embodiment of the invention pertains to a method of producing the high protein
30 fruit and/or vegetable preparation, the method comprising the steps of:
   1) providing:
   - a fruit and/or vegetable material,
   - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron, and
35 - optionally, one or more additional ingredients,
   2) combining the fruit and/or vegetable material, the insoluble protein particles having a
   particle size in the range of 1-10 micron, and optionally also the one or more additional
   ingredients to obtain a mixture wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material is present in
40 an amount of at least 10% (w/w) and wherein the insoluble whey protein particles hav
                                                  4

   ing a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron are present in an amount of at least 2%
   (w/w), and
   3) heat-treating the mixture of step 2) thereby obtaining the heat-treated high protein
 5 fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
   Another embodiment of the invention pertains to a food product comprising the heat
   treated, high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation as defined herein.
10
   An more specific embodiment of the invention relates to a high protein acidified dairy
   product comprising at least 4% (w/w) protein, said high protein acidified dairy product
   comprising the heat-treated, high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation as defined
15 herein.
   Another embodiment of the invention pertains to a high protein, fruit-flavoured bever
   age containing:
   - water,
20 - a sweetener,
   - a total amount of protein of at least 4% (w/w),
   - a total amount of the solids of a denatured whey protein composition of at least 2%
   (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage, the denatured whey protein composi
   tion containing:
25                 - a total amount of protein of at least 60% (w/w) on a dry weight basis
                   relative to the total weight of the denatured whey protein composition,
                   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1
                   10 micron, where the amount of said insoluble whey protein particles is in
                   the range of 50-100% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
30                 denatured whey protein composition,
   - a fruit flavouring agent, and
   - a food acid,
   said beverage having a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8.
35
   The present inventors have found that a high protein beverage containing a mixture of
   fruit juice and a substantial amount of a denatured whey protein composition that has
   both an acceptable taste and acceptable textural properties can be produced by replac
   ing a 45% (w/w) protein (microparticulated WPC45) with a denatured whey protein
                                                    5

   composition containing at least 60% protein, and by carefully controlling the pH of the
   beverage.
   It should furthermore be noted that the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage may be
 5 used as a high protein fruit preparation.
   Yet another embodiment of the invention pertains to a method of producing a high pro
   tein, fruit-flavoured beverage, the method comprising:
                   a) forming a mixture comprising:
10                 - water,
                   - sweetener,
                   - a total amount of protein of at least 4% (w/w)
                   - a total amount of solids of a denatured whey protein composition of at
                   least 2% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage, the denatured
15                 whey protein composition containing:
                                  - a total amount of protein of at least 60% (w/w) relative to
                                  the total weight of the partly denatured whey protein com
                                  position,
                                  - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the
20                                range of 1-10 micron, where the amount of said insoluble
                                  whey protein particles is in the range of 50-100% (w/w) rel
                                  ative to the total amount of the denatured whey protein
                                  com position,
                   - a fruit flavouring agent, and
25                 - food acid
                   b) optionally, if the pH of the mixture is higher than pH 4.8, reducing the
                   pH of the mixture to a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8 by addition of a food ac
                   id, and
30
                   c) packaging the mixture,
   wherein:
                   i) the mixture is heat-treated prior to, during or after packaging, or
35                 ii) the mixture is made of one or more heat-treated ingredients.
   BRI EF DESCRI PTI ON OF THE FI GURE
                                                     6

   Figure 1 shows the relationship between the pH of the beverage sample and the per
   ceived fruitiness of the sample.
   DETAI LED DESCRI PTION OF THE INVENTION
 5
   The present invention relates to a high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage containing:
       -   water,
       -   a sweetener,
10     -   a total amount of protein of at least 4% (w/w),
       -   a total amount of the solids of a denatured whey protein composition of at least
           2% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage, the denatured whey pro
           tein composition containing:
                o a total amount of protein of at least 60% (w/w) on a dry weight basis
15                  relative to the total weight of the denatured whey protein composition,
                o insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10
                    micron, where the amount of said insoluble whey protein particles is in
                    the range of 50-100% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of
                    the denatured whey protein composition,
20     -   a fruit flavouring agent, and
       -   a food acid,
       -   said beverage having a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8.
   In the context of the present invention, the term "dry weight" of a composition or a
25 beverage relates to the weight of the composition or beverage if it had been dried to a
   water content of 3% (w/w) water.
   The contents of the water in the beverage can be determined according to Example 1.7.
   In one embodiment, the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage is ready to be ingested
30 and has a water content of at least 75% relative to the total weight of the beverage,
   and the total dry weight of the beverage is typically at most 25% (w/w) relative to the
   total weight of the beverage. For example, the beverage may have a water content of at
   least 85% relative to the total weight of the beverage, and the total dry weight of the
   beverage is typically at most 15% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage.
35
   The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage may take the form of a concentrate, or may
   be dried to a powder, to which water is added to provide a beverage that is ready to be
   ingested.
                                                   7

   Thus, an alternative aspect of the invention relates to a dry powder containing the non
   water-components of the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage, and which powder con
   tains at most 6% (w/w) water.
 5 The term "sweetener" relates to a component of the beverage that confers a sweet
   taste when the beverage is ingested. Components suitable for conferring a sweet taste
   may be natural sweeteners or artificial sweeteners. Suitable natural sweeteners include
   both sugars in the form of sugars (i.e. mono- and di-saccharides) and non-sugar sweet
   eners.
10
   The sweetener, in the form of one or more mono- and/or di-saccharide(s), may be a
   native component of the denatured whey protein composition and/or the fruit-flavouring
   agent in the beverage. In addition to the native sweetener content of the whey protein
   composition and/or fruit-flavouring agent, the beverage may contain a first sweetener
15 component comprising one of more additional di- and mono-saccharides in order to pro
   vide the desired sweet taste.
   In the context of the present invention, the phrase "Y and/or X" means "Y" or "X" or "Y
   and X. Along the same line of logic, the phrase "n1 , n 2 , ... , ni.1, and/or ni" means " n1"
20 or " n2 " or ... or "ni. 1 " or "ni" or any combination of the components : n1 , n 2 ,...ni. 1, and
   ni.
   The sweetener, in the form of one or more mono- and/or di-saccharide(s), may be de
   rived from mammalian milk or a derivative thereof. A suitable source of milk-derived
25 saccharides includes whole milk, semi-skimmed milk, skimmed milk, whey, milk perme
   ate and milk permeate solids. The main form of milk-derived saccharides is lactose
   and/or glucose and galactose.
   In one embodiment, the food product may contain one of more additional carbohydrates
30 in the form of di- and mono-saccharides such as sucrose, maltose, lactose, dextrose,
   glucose, fructose, galactose and a combination thereof that provide both nutritional
   energy and a sweet taste when the food product is ingested.
   In one embodiment, the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage comprises a total
35 amount of sweetener in the range of 1-80% (w/w) relative to the dry weight of the bev
   erage. In a further embodiment, the beverage comprises a first sweetener component
   in addition to the native sweetener in the denatured whey protein composition, where
   the amount of the first sweetener is in the range of 1-80% (w/w) relative to the dry
   weight of the beverage. Preferably, the first sweetener is in the form of di- and mono
40 saccharides; more preferably in the form of a lactose-containing or lactose-derived car
                                                      8

   bohydrate, in particular lactose, glucose and galactose. The first sweetener may com
   prise a total amount of di- and mono-saccharides of at least 75% (w/w) relative to the
   dry weight of the first sweetener; or in an amount of at least 80% (w/w) relative to the
   dry weight of the first sweetener, such as in the range of 85-95% (w/w) relative to the
 5 dry weight of the first sweetener, where the total amount of di- and mono-saccharides
   is preferably the sum of the amount of lactose, glucose and galactose.
   In one embodiment, the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage comprises a total
   amount of carbohydrate sweetener in the range of 1-20% (w/w) relative to the total
10 weight of the beverage to be ingested. Alternatively, the beverage may comprise a total
   amount of carbohydrate sweetener in the range of 4-15% (w/w) relative to the total
   weight of the beverage to be ingested. Since the denatured whey protein composition
   and/or the fruit-flavouring agent in the beverage may comprise sweetener components,
   it will often be sufficient to add carbohydrate sweetener in an amount of about 2 - 10%
15 relative to the total weight of the beverage to be ingested to reach the desired sweet
   ness of taste. Alternatively, the beverage may comprise a total amount of added carbo
   hydrate sweetener in the range of 4-8% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the bever
   age to be ingested.
20 A high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage containing the denatured whey protein compo
   sition may further comprise one or more non-carbohydrate natural or artificial sweeten
   ers.
   In one embodiment, the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage contains one or more
25 natural sweetening agent(s) that are not sugars. These natural sweetening agent(s)
   may be provided as a component of a second sweetener, either alone or in combination
   with a natural sugar sweetener, as defined above. The natural non-sugar sweetening
   agent(s) may for example be selected from the group consisting of Momordica Grosven
   orii (Mogrosides IV or V) extracts, Rooibos extracts, Honeybush extracts, Stevia extract,
30 Rebaudioside A, thaumatin, Brazzein, Glycyrrhyzic acid and its salts, Curculin, Monellin,
   Phylloducin, Rubusosides, Mabinlin, dulcoside A, dulcoside B, siamenoside, monatin and
   its salts (monatin SS, RR, RS, SR), hernandulcin, phyllodulcin, glycyphyllin, phloridzin,
   trilobatin, baiyunoside, osladin, polypodoside A, pterocaryoside A, pterocaryoside B,
   mukurozioside, phlomisoside 1, periandrin I, abrusoside A, cyclocarioside 1, erythritol,
35 isomaltulose, and/or natural polyols such as maltitol, mannitol, lactitol, sorbitol, inositol,
   xylitol, threitol, galactitol and combinations thereof.
   In one embodiment, the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage contains one or more
   artificial sweetening agent(s). These artificial sweetening agent(s) may be provided as a
40 component of the first sweetener, either alone or in combination with other of the
                                                  9

   sweeteners, as defined above. The artificial non-sugar sweetening agent(s) may for
   example be selected from the group consisting of Aspartame, Cyclamate, Sucralose,
   Acesulfame K, neotame, Saccharin, Neohesperidin dihydrochalcone, Stevia extract, Re
   baudioside A, thaumatin, Brazzein, Glycyrrhyzic acid and its salts, Curculin, Monellin,
 5 Phylloducin, Rubusosides, Mabinlin, dulcoside A, dulcoside B, siamenoside, monatin and
   its salts (monatin SS, RR, RS, SR), and combinations thereof.
   In some embodiments of the invention, it is particularly preferred that the sweetener,
   comprises or even consists of, one or more high intensity sweeteners (HIS). HIS are
10 both found among the natural and the artificial sweeteners and typically have a sweet
   ening intensity of at least 10 times that of sucrose. Non-limiting examples of useful HIS
   are Aspartame, Cyclamate, Sucralose, Acesulfame K, neotame, Saccharin, Neohesperi
   din dihydrochalcone and combinations thereof.
15 If used, the total amount of HIS is typically in the range of 0.01-2% (w/w). For exam
   ple, the total amount of HIS may be in the range of 0.05-1.5% (w/w). Alternatively, the
   total amount of HIS may be in the range of 0.1-1.0% (w/w).
   It may furthermore be preferred that sweetener, comprises or even consists of, one or
20 more polyol sweetener(s). Non-limiting examples of useful polyol sweetener are
   maltitol, mannitol, lactitol, sorbitol, inositol, xylitol, threitol, galactitol or combinations
   thereof.
   If used, the total amount of polyol sweetener is typically in the range of 1-20% (w/w).
25 For example, the total amount of polyol sweetener may be in the range of 2-15%
   (w/w). Alternatively, the total amount of polyol sweetener may be in the range of 4
   10% (w/w).
30 The high protein fruit-flavoured beverage of the invention has a total protein content of
   at least 4% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage. In one embodiment, the
   beverage has a total protein content of at least 5% (w/w); preferably at least 6%
   (w/w); more preferably at least 8% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage.
35 The denatured whey composition in the beverage is a major component of the protein
   content of the beverage. The denatured whey composition comprises a total amount of
   protein of at least 60% (w/w) on a dry weight basis relative to the total weight of the
   denatured whey protein composition, and comprises an insoluble whey protein particles
   having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron, where the amount of said insoluble
                                                    10

   whey protein particles is in the range of 50-100% (w/w) relative to the total amount of
   protein of the denatured whey protein composition.
   In the context of the present invention, the term "denatured whey protein composition"
 5 relates to a composition which contains at least some denatured whey protein and pref
   erably a significant amount of denatured whey protein. The composition may also con
   tain some non-denatured whey protein; however, the protein of the denatured whey
   protein composition preferably has a degree of denaturation of at least 50%.
10 In one embodiment, the protein of the denatured whey protein composition in the bev
   erage of the invention may have a degree of denaturation of at least 60%. The protein
   of denatured whey protein composition may e.g. have a degree of denaturation of at
   least 70%, such at least 75%. Alternatively, the protein of denatured whey protein
   composition may have a degree of denaturation of at least 80%.
15
   Even higher degrees of denaturation may be desirable, thus, the protein of denatured
   whey protein composition may have a degree of denaturation of at least 85%. For ex
   ample, the protein of denatured whey protein composition may have a degree of dena
   turation of at least 90%. The protein of denatured whey protein composition may e.g.
20 have a degree of denaturation of at least 95% such at least 97%. Alternatively, the
   protein of denatured whey protein composition may have a degree of denaturation of at
   least 99%.
   In the context of the present invention, the term "whey protein" relates to the proteins
25 which are present in the serum phase of either milk or coagulated milk. The proteins of
   the serum phase of milk are also sometimes referred to as milk serum proteins or ideal
   whey.
   In the context of the present invention, the term "whey" relates to the liquid composi
30 tion which is left when casein has been removed from milk. Casein may e.g. be re
   moved by microfiltration providing a liquid permeate which is free of or essentially free
   of micellar casein but contains the native whey proteins. This liquid permeate is some
   times referred to as ideal whey, serum or milk serum.
35 Alternatively, the casein may be removed from milk by contacting a milk composition
   with rennet enzyme, which cleavage of kappa-casein into para-kappa-casein and the
   peptide caseinomacropeptide (CMP), thereby destabilising the casein micelles and caus
   ing casein to precipitate. The liquid surrounding the rennet precipitated casein is often
   referred to as sweet whey and contains CMP in addition to the whey proteins which are
40 normally found in milk.
                                                11

   Casein may also be removed from milk by acid precipitation, i.e. reducing the pH of the
   milk below pH 4.6 which is the isoelectric point of casein and which causes the casein
   micelles to disintegrate and precipitate. The liquid surrounding the acid precipitated
 5 casein is often referred to as acid whey or casein whey and does not contain CMP.
   In the context of the present invention the term "insoluble whey protein particles" per
   tains to particulate aggregates comprising denatured whey proteins, which aggregate
   and can be separated from soluble whey protein by centrifugation.
10
   The denatured whey protein composition contains insoluble whey protein particles and
   preferably a substantial part of the insoluble particles have a particle size in the range
   of 1-10 micron. The insoluble whey protein particles are typically produced by heating a
   solution of whey protein at an appropriate pH while subjecting the solution to a high
15 degree of internal shear. The shear may be provided by mechanical shearing, using e.g.
   scraped-surface heat-exchangers or homogenizers or by subjecting the solution to high
   linear flow rates which promote turbulence.
   It is also possible to prepare the denatured whey protein compositions using low shear
20 or non-shear microparticulation methods. Such methods typically involve the use rela
   tively low concentrations of whey protein during heat treatment and precise control of
   the pH and the concentration of calcium.
   Insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron are
25 interesting for the present invention, and in some preferred embodiments, the dena
   tured whey protein composition comprises insoluble whey protein particles in this size
   range in an amount of at least 50% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
   com position.
30 The amount (% w/w relative to the total amount of protein) of insoluble whey protein
   particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in a denatured whey protein
   composition is determined according to Example 1.1 (P      oo).
                                                              1
   For example, the denatured whey protein composition may comprise insoluble whey
35 protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an amount of at
   least 60% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition. The particle
   size range 1-10 micron effectively covers particles having a particle size (hydrodynamic
   diameter) as low as 0.5000 micron and as high as 10.4999 micron.
                                                 12

   The denatured whey protein composition may e.g. comprise insoluble whey protein par
   ticles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an amount of at least 65%
   (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition. Alternatively, the de
   natured whey protein composition may comprise insoluble whey protein particles having
 5 a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an amount of at least 70% (w/w) relative
   to the total amount of protein of the composition. The denatured whey protein composi
   tion may for example comprise insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in
   the range of 1-10 micron, in an amount of at least 75% (w/w) relative to the total
   amount of protein of the composition, such as in an amount of at least 80% (w/w).
10
   A higher content of insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of
   1-10 micron may be preferred for some applications. Thus, the denatured whey protein
   composition may comprise insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the
   range of 1-10 micron in an amount of at least 85% (w/w) relative to the total amount of
15 protein of the composition. The denatured whey protein composition may e.g. comprise
   insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an
   amount of at least 88% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composi
   tion. Alternatively, the denatured whey protein composition may comprise insoluble
   whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an amount of
20 at least 90% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition, such as in
   an amount of at least 95% (w/w) or approx. 100% (w/w).
   In some embodiments of the invention, the denatured whey protein composition may
   comprise insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10
25 micron in an amount in the range of 50-100% (w/w) relative to the total amount of
   protein of the composition. The denatured whey protein composition may e.g. comprise
   insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an
   amount in the range of 60-95% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
   composition. Alternatively, the denatured whey protein composition may comprise in
30 soluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an
   amount in the range of 65-90% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
   composition. The denatured whey protein composition may for example comprise insol
   uble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an
   amount in the range of 70-85% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
35 composition.
   Insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of approx. 1 micron are of par
   ticular interest for the present invention, and in some preferred embodiments the dena
   tured whey protein composition comprises insoluble whey protein particles within this
40 size range in an amount of at least 50% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of
                                                 13

   the composition. The particle size of approx. 1 micron effectively covers particles having
   a particle size (hydrodynamic diameter) as low as 0.5000 micron and as high as 1.4999
   micron. The amount (% w/w relative to the total amount of protein) of insoluble whey
   protein particles having a particle size of approx. 1 micron in a denatured whey protein
 5 composition is determined according to Example 1.1 (P1).
   For example, the denatured whey protein composition may comprise insoluble whey
   protein particles having a particle size of approx. 1 micron in an amount of at least 55%
   (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition. The denatured whey
10 protein composition may e.g. comprise insoluble whey protein particles having a particle
   size of approx. 1 micron in an amount of at least 60% (w/w) relative to the total
   amount of protein of the composition. Alternatively, the denatured whey protein compo
   sition may comprise insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of approx. 1
   micron in an amount of at least 70% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
15 composition. The denatured whey protein composition may for example comprise insol
   uble whey protein particles having a particle size of approx. 1 micron in an amount of at
   least 75% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition, such as in
   an amount of at least 80% (w/w).
20 A higher content of insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of approx. 1
   micron may be preferred for some applications. Thus, the denatured whey protein com
   position may comprise insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of approx.
   1 micron in an amount of at least 85% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of
   the composition. The denatured whey protein composition may e.g. comprise insoluble
25 whey protein particles having a particle size of approx. 1 micron in an amount of at
   least 90% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition. Alternative
   ly, the denatured whey protein composition may comprise insoluble whey protein parti
   cles having a particle size of approx. 1 micron in an amount of at least 95% (w/w) rela
   tive to the total amount of protein of the composition, such as in an amount of at least
30 97% (w/w) or approx. 100% (w/w).
   In some embodiments of the invention, the denatured whey protein composition may
   comprise insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of approx. 1 micron in
   an amount in the range of 50-100% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
35 composition. The denatured whey protein composition may e.g. comprise insoluble
   whey protein particles having a particle size of approx. 1 micron in an amount in the
   range of 60-95% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition. Al
   ternatively, the denatured whey protein composition may comprise insoluble whey pro
   tein particles having a particle size of approx. 1 micron in an amount in the range of 65
40 90% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition. The denatured
                                                 14

   whey protein composition may for example comprise insoluble whey protein particles
   having a particle size of approx. 1 micron in an amount in the range of 70-85% (w/w)
   relative to the total amount of protein of the composition.
 5 For example, the denatured whey protein composition may comprise insoluble whey
   protein particles having a particle size of approx. 1 micron in an amount in the range of
   55-85% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition. The denatured
   whey protein composition may e.g. comprise insoluble whey protein particles having a
   particle size of approx. 1 micron in an amount in the range of 60-85% (w/w) relative to
10 the total amount of protein of the composition. Alternatively, the denatured whey pro
   tein composition may comprise insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of
   approx. 1 micron in an amount in the range of 65-85% (w/w) relative to the total
   amount of protein of the composition. The denatured whey protein composition may for
   example comprise insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of approx. 1
15 micron in an amount in the range of 65-80% (w/w) relative to the total amount of pro
   tein of the composition.
   Larger particles of insoluble whey protein are often less desirable as they may give rise
   to a sandy texture of the food products incorporating the denatured whey protein com
20 positions.
   Thus, in some preferred embodiments of the invention, the denatured whey protein
   composition comprises insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of more
   than 10 micron in an amount of at most 10% (w/w) relative to the total amount of pro
25 tein of the composition, preferably at most 5% (w/w), and even more preferably at
   most 1% (w/w).
   For example, the denatured whey protein composition comprises insoluble whey protein
   particles having a particle size of more than 10 micron in an amount of at most 10%
30 (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition, preferably at most 5%
   (w/w), and even more preferably at most 1% (w/w).
   Additionally, it is sometimes preferred that the amount of insoluble whey protein parti
   cles having a size below 0.5 micron is kept to a minimum as these may provide an un
35 desirably high viscosity to the products comprising them.
   Thus, in some embodiments of the invention, the denatured whey protein composition
   comprises insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of less than 0.5 micron
   in an amount of at most 10% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the com
40 position, preferably at most 5% (w/w), and even more preferably at most 1% (w/w).
                                                 15

   In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the denatured whey protein composi
   tion comprises:
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in
 5 an amount of at least 50% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composi
   tion,
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of more than 10 micron in an
   amount of at most 10% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composi
   tion, and
10 - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of less than 0.5 micron in an
   amount of at most 10% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composi
   tion.
   For example, the denatured whey protein composition comprises:
15 - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in
   an amount of at least 50% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composi
   tion,
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of more than 10 micron in an
   amount of at most 5% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition,
20 and
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of less than 0.5 micron in an
   amount of at most 10% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composi
   tion.
25 Alternatively, the denatured whey protein composition may comprise:
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in
   an amount of at least 50% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composi
   tion,
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of more than 10 micron in an
30 amount of at most 1% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composition,
   and
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size of less than 0.5 micron in an
   amount of at most 10% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the composi
   tion.
35
   The particle size distribution of the insoluble whey protein particles is using the proce
   dure outlined in Example 1.1.
   In one embodiment, the denatured whey composition comprised in the beverage, has a
40 total protein content of at least 70% (w/w) relative to denatured whey composition on a
                                                 16

    dry weight basis; preferably at least 80% (w/w); more preferably at least 90% (w/w);
    such as in the range of 85% to 90% (w/w).
    The term "solids" relates to solids of the denatured whey protein composition that would
  5 be left if all water of the composition was completely removed, i.e. the non-volatile
    components of the denatured whey protein composition including proteins, lipids, car
    bohydrates and milk minerals. The solid content of a food product is preferably deter
    mined according to Example 1.7.
10  It should be noted that the denatured whey protein solids need not be in solid form, but
    rather parts of it may present in dissolved form in the beverage.
    While the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage contains a total amount of the solids of
    a denatured whey protein composition of at least 2% (w/w) relative to the total weight
15  of the beverage, it is often preferred that the denatured whey protein composition is
    used at even higher concentrations. For examples, the beverage may contain the solids
    of the denatured whey protein composition in an amount of at least 4% (w/w). The
    beverage may e.g. contain the solids of the denatured whey protein composition in an
    amount of at least 6% (w/w). Alternatively, the beverage may contain the solids of the
20  denatured whey protein composition in an amount of at least 8% (w/w). The beverage
    may e.g. contain the solids of the denatured whey protein composition in an amount of
    at least 10% (w/w) or even in an amount of at least 15% (w/w).
    The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage typically contains the solids of the denatured
25  whey protein composition in an amount in the range of 2-15% (w/w). For example, the
    beverage may contain the solids of the denatured whey protein composition in an
    amount in the range of 4-12% (w/w). The beverage may e.g. contain the solids of the
    denatured whey protein composition in an amount in the range of 5-10% (w/w). Alter
    natively, the high protein food product may contain the solids of the denatured whey
30  protein composition in an amount in the range of 3-6% (w/w).
    The denatured whey protein composition contained in the beverage may be provided in
    the form of a powder, preferably having a water content of at most 6% (w/w), or as an
    aqueous suspension composition, preferably comprising at least 50% (w/w) water.
35
    In one embodiment, the beverage contains less than 5% casein relative to the total
    amount of protein.
    The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage may contain one or more minerals.
40
                                                  17

    The present inventors have found that it is advantageous to reduce the amount of min
    erals (measured as the ash content) of the denatured whey protein composition used to
    prepare the beverage. While not wishing to be bound by theory, it is thought that previ
    ous attempts to produce high protein, fruit-flavoured beverages using denatured whey
  5 protein compositions as a source of protein, have resulted in beverages with poor flavor
    due to a failure to control the levels of salt and lactose in the product when the protein
    levels of the beverage are enriched by adding whey protein fraction.
    In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the denatured whey protein composi
10  tion has a total protein : ash content weight ratio of at least 15. Preferably, the total
    protein : ash content weight ratio of the denatured whey protein composition is at least
    20. Even more preferably, the total protein : ash content weight ratio of the denatured
    whey protein composition is at least 30. For example, the total protein : ash content
    weight ratio of the denatured whey protein composition may be at least 40, such as at
15  least 50.
    For example, the denatured whey protein composition may have a total protein : ash
    content weight ratio in the range of 15 - 60. The denatured whey protein composition
    may e.g. have a total protein : ash content weight ratio in the range of 20 - 55. Alterna
20  tively, the denatured whey protein composition may have a total protein : ash content
    weight ratio in the range of 25 - 50, such as in the range of 30-45.
    The ash content is determined according to example 1.6 and the total protein is deter
    mined according to Example 1.4.
25
    The one of more minerals may be selected from the group consisting of phosphorus,
    magnesium, iron, zinc, manganese, copper, chromium, iodine, sodium, potassium, chlo
    ride and combinations thereof.
30  The one or more minerals are typically a native component of the denatured whey pro
    tein composition, such that the mineral content of the beverage will be determined by
    the denatured whey protein composition in the beverage. A beverage containing the
    denatured whey protein composition typically has a total ash content in the range of 1
    10% (w/w) relative to the dry weight of the beverage; preferably in the range of 3-8%
35  (w/w), more preferably in the range of 4-6% (w/w) relative to the dry weight of the
    beverage.
    In addition to salts and minerals, the denatured whey protein composition furthermore
    typically contains fat, e.g. milk fat or whey fat. For example, the denatured whey pro
                                                   18

   tein composition may furthermore comprise fat in an amount of at most 8% (w/w) on a
   dry weight basis.
   The denatured whey protein composition may furthermore comprise carbohydrate, typi
 5 cally in the form of lactose or lactose-based oligosaccharides. For example, the dena
   tured whey protein composition may comprise lactose in an amount of at most 30%
   (w/w) on a dry weight basis. The denatured whey protein composition may e.g. com
   prise lactose in an amount of at most 15% (w/w) on a dry weight basis. Alternatively,
   the denatured whey protein composition may comprise lactose in an amount of at most
10 10% (w/w) on a dry weight basis.
   In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the lactose content of the denatured
   whey protein composition is even lower, such as at most 4% (w/w) on a dry weight
   basis. Preferably, the lactose content of the denatured whey protein composition is at
15 most 3% (w/w) on a dry weight basis. Even more preferably, the lactose content of the
   denatured whey protein composition is at most 2% (w/w) on a dry weight basis, such
   as at most 1% (w/w).
   The present inventors have found that such compositions are particularly advantageous
20 for preparing high protein, low lactose food products or high protein, low carbohydrate
   food products.
   The denatured whey protein composition may be present in different forms. For exam
   ple the denatured whey protein composition may be a powder, preferably a dry powder.
25 In the context of the present invention, a dry powder contains at most 6% (w/w) water.
   Alternatively, the denatured whey protein composition may be a suspension and prefer
   ably an aqueous suspension, meaning that the insoluble particles of the denatured whey
   protein composition are suspended in water. In the context of the present invention, an
30 aqueous suspension contains at least 50% (w/w) water, preferably at least 60% (w/w)
   water, such as at least 70% (w/w). Even higher contents of water may be preferred for
   some applications, thus, an aqueous suspension may contain at least 80% (w/w) water,
   such as e.g. at least 90% (w/w) water.
35 The contents of water in a food product may be determined according to ISO
   5537:2004 (Dried milk - Determination of moisture content (Reference method)) or by
   NMKL 110    2 nd Edition, 2005 (Total solids (Water) - Gravimetric determination in milk
   and milk products). NMKL is an abbreviation for "Nordisk Metodikkomite for Norings
   midler".
40
                                                  19

    In the context of the present invention, the term "dry weight" of a composition or prod
    uct relates to the weight of the composition or product when it has been dried to a wa
    ter content of 3% (w/w) water.
  5 The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage comprises one or more natural and/or artifi
    cial fruit flavouring agent. The fruit flavouring agent may be selected from orange fla
    vour, lemon flavour, lime flavour, pineapple flavour, apple flavour, pear flavour, straw
    berry flavour, cherry flavour, cranberry flavor, blackcurrant flavour and grape fruit fla
    vor. In one embodiment, the fruit flavouring agent comprises or even consists of a juice
10  or a juice concentrate or one or more fruits. Typically, the beverage comprises between
    5 and 80% (w/w) of a fruit flavouring agent. When the fruit flavouring agent is provided
    as a concentrate of the pure juice of one or more fruits, this concentrate comprises low
    er amounts, such as in the range of 1-20% (w/w), of the beverage to be ingested. In
    one embodiment, the concentrate comprises amounts in the range of 2-15% (w/w) of
15  the beverage, such as in the range of 2-10-% (w/w). When the fruit flavouring agent is
    provided as a non-concentrate of pure juice of one or more fruits, this juice may com
    prise amounts in the range of 5-85% (w/w) of the beverage to be ingested. In one em
    bodiment, the pure juice comprises amounts in the range of 10-50% (w/w) of the bev
    erage, or alternatively in the range of 15-40% (w/w) or 20 - 30%.
20
    The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage comprises one or more food acids. The term
    "food acid" includes both acidic, partly deprotonated and fully deprotonated forms of the
    acid.
25  In one embodiment, the beverage comprises a food acid selected from the group con
    sisting of citric acid, malic acid, tartaric acid, acetic acid, benzoic acid, butyric acid, lac
    tic acid, fumaric acid, succinic acid, ascorbic acid, adipic acid, phosphoric acid and mix
    tures thereof. In a further embodiment, some or substantially all of the food acid in the
    beverage is provided by the fruit flavouring agent.
30
    The total amount of food acid in the beverage may be at least 0.1% (w/w) relative to
    the total weight of the beverage, preferably at least 0.5% (w/w), more preferably at
    least 0.75% (w/w); even more preferably at least 1.0% (w/w) relative to the total
    weight of the beverage.
35
    In a further embodiment, the beverage has a total food acid content in the range of
    0.2% - 5% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage, more preferably in the
    range of 0.3 - 3.0 (w/w), even more preferably in the range of 0.5% - 1.5% (w/w)
    relative to the total weight of the beverage.
40
                                                     20

    These total amounts of food acids in the beverage correspond to the sum of food acid,
    including both acidic, partly deprotonated and fully deprotonated forms of the food acid.
    In one embodiment, the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage may further comprise
  5 one or more vitamin(s) such as vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin E, vitamin K, thiamine,
    riboflavin, pyridoxine, vitamin B12, niacin, folic acid, pantothenic acid, biotin, vitamin C,
    choline, inositol, their salts, their derivatives, and combinations thereof.
    In one embodiment, the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage may further comprise
10  one of more stabilizers. Suitable stabilizers include locust bean gum, guar gum, algi
    nates, cellulose, xanthan gum, carboxymethyl cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, car
    rageenans, pectins and mixtures thereof.
    The content of the one of more stabilisers may be in the range of 0.01-3% (w/w) rela
15  tive to the dry weight of the beverage, preferably in the range of 0.1 to 0.5% (w/w).
    In one embodiment, the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage may further comprise
    one of more emulsifiers. Suitable emulsifiers to be used are mono- and di-glycerides,
    citric acid esters of mono- and di-glycerides, diacetyltartaric acid esters of mono- and
20  di-glycerides polysorbate, lecithin, or polyol esters of fatty acids such as propylene gly
    col monoester of fatty acids, or mixtures thereof.
    The content of the one of more emulsifiers may be in the range of 0.01-3% (w/w) rela
    tive to the dry weight of the beverage, preferably in the range of 0.1 to 0.5% (w/w).
25
    The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage has a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8 when meas
    ured at 25 degrees C, where the pH of the beverage can be adjusted within this range
    by the addition of food acid.
30  The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage may be a heat-treated beverage, where the
    temperature of the beverage has preferably been raised to at least 70'C for sufficient
    time to pasteurize the beverage. In a preferred embodiment, the high protein, fruit
    flavoured beverage contains at most 106 viable bacteria per mL, more preferably the
    beverage is sterile or at least commercially sterile.
35
    In one embodiment, the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage preferably has a viscosi
    ty in the range of 3-400 cP. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage may for example
    have a viscosity of at most 400 cP, and typically in the range of 4-350 cP. For example,
    the viscosity of the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage may be in the range of 10
40  300 cP. The viscosity of the high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage may e.g. be in the
                                                    21

    range of 15-200 cP. Alternatively, the viscosity of the high protein, fruit-flavoured bev
    erage may be in the range of 20-150 cP, such as in the range of 50-130 cP.
    The food product containing the denatured whey protein composition can be produced
  5 in a number of different ways. The denatured whey protein composition may for exam
    ple be added as a dry ingredient during the production of the food product or it may be
    added in the form of a suspension during the production.
    When the denatured whey protein composition is used in the form of powder, it is often
10  preferred to resuspend the denatured whey protein composition powder in an aqueous
    liquid, e.g. water or milk, and give it time to rehydrate, e.g. 10 minutes - 1 hour, be
    fore continuing the processing. However, the general process may already inherently
    give the denatured whey protein composition powder sufficient time for rehydration in
    which case extra rehydration time is not necessary.
15
    The insoluble whey protein particles are typically produced by heating a solution of
    whey protein having an appropriate pH while subjecting the solution to a high degree of
    internal shear or by adjusting the conditions of the solution so that particles build up
    without the generation of a continuous gel in the solution. The shear may be provided
20  by mechanical shearing, using e.g. scraped-surface heat-exchangers or homogenizers,
    or by subjecting the solution to flow conditions which promote turbulence.
    The invention provides the following method for producing a denatured whey protein
    composition, the method comprising the steps of:
25
    a) providing a solution comprising whey protein, said solution having a pH in the range
    of 5-8, said solution comprising:
                   - water,
                   - a total amount of whey protein of at least 1% (w/w)
30                 - a total amount of protein of at least 60% (w/w) on a dry weight basis,
    b) heating said solution to a temperature in the range of 70-160 degrees C and keeping
    the temperature of the solution within this range for sufficient time to form insoluble
    whey protein microparticles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron,
35
    c) optionally, cooling the heat-treated solution,
    d) optionally, converting the heat treated solution to a powder,
40  wherein at least step b) involves subjecting the solution to mechanical shear.
                                                  22

   The method may comprise the steps a) and b), and c), and d) in which case the dena
   tured whey protein composition is a powder, and preferably a dry powder.
 5 The method may comprise the steps a) and b), and d) but not step c) in which case the
   heat-treated solution is subjected to powder conversion without prior cooling.
   The method may comprise the steps a) and b), and c) but not step d) in which case the
   denatured whey protein composition could be a suspension containing insoluble whey
10 protein particles.
   The whey protein solution typically contains a total amount of whey protein of at least
   1% (w/w) relative to the weight of the solution, such as e.g. at least 5% (w/w). For
   example, the solution may contain a total amount of whey protein of at least 10%
15 (w/w). The solution may e.g. contain a total amount of whey protein of at least 15%
   (w/w). Alternatively, the solution may contain a total amount of whey protein of at least
   20% (w/w).
   The whey protein solution may for example contain a total amount of whey protein in
20 the range of 1-50% (w/w). For example, the solution may contain a total amount of
   whey protein in the range of 5-40% (w/w). The solution may e.g. contain a total
   amount of whey protein in the range of 10-30% (w/w). Alternatively, the solution may
   contain a total amount of whey protein in the range of 15-25% (w/w).
25 It is furthermore preferred that the whey protein solution contains a total amount of
   whey protein of at least 60% (w/w) on a dry weight basis, such as e.g. at least 70%
   (w/w) on a dry weight basis. For example, the solution may contain a total amount of
   whey protein of at least 75% (w/w) on a dry weight basis. The solution may e.g. con
   tain a total amount of whey protein of at least 80% (w/w) on a dry weight basis. Alter
30 natively, the solution may contain a total amount of whey protein of at least 85% (w/w)
   on a dry weight basis.
   The whey protein solution may for example contain a total amount of whey protein in
   the range of 60-100% (w/w) on a dry weight basis. For example, the solution may con
35 tain a total amount of whey protein in the range of 65-95% (w/w) on a dry weight ba
   sis. The solution may e.g. contain a total amount of whey protein in the range of 70
   90% (w/w) on a dry weight basis. Alternatively, the solution may contain a total
   amount of whey protein in the range of 75-85% (w/w) on a dry weight basis.
                                               23

   The whey protein used in the solution may be whey protein from acid whey, whey pro
   tein from sweet whey and/or milk protein from milk serum.
   The whey protein solution preferably contains beta-lactoglobulin, which is an important
 5 component for the formation of insoluble whey protein particles. The solution may fur
   thermore contain one or more of the additional proteins found in whey, for example
   alpha-lactalbumin and/or CMP.
   Yet another aspect of the invention relates to a method of producing a high protein,
10 juice-flavoured beverage, the method comprising:
   a) forming a mixture comprising:
               - water,
               -  sweetener
               - a total amount of protein of at least 4% (w/w)
15             - a total amount of solids of a denatured whey protein composition of at
                    least 2% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage, the de
                    natured whey protein composition containing:
                         - a total amount of protein of at least 60% (w/w) on a dry weight
                         basis relative to the total weight of the denatured whey protein
20                       composition, and
                         - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range
                         of 1-10 micron, where the amount of said insoluble whey protein
                         particles is in the range of 50-100% (w/w) relative to the total
                         amount of protein of the denatured whey protein composition,
25             - a fruit flavouring agent, and
               - food acid
               - optionally, one or more additional ingredients.
   b) optionally, if the pH of the mixture is higher than pH 4.8, reducing the pH of the mix
30 ture to a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8 by addition of a food acid, and
   c) packaging the mixture,
   wherein:
35             - the mixture is heat-treated prior to, during or after packaging, or
               - the mixture is made of one or more heat-treated ingredients.
   Step a) involves forming a mixture from several components including the solids of a
   denatured whey protein composition in an amount of at least 2% (w/w) relative to the
40 total weight of the beverage. The solids of the denatured whey protein composition may
                                                   24

   be included in the mixture in the form of a powder, preferably having a water content of
   at most 6% (w/w) of the total weight of the powder; or as an aqueous suspension, for
   example having a water content of at least 50% (w/w) of the total weight of the dena
   tured whey protein composition.
 5
   Typically, the solids of the denatured whey protein composition in the mixture are suffi
   cient to provide the mixture with a total amount of protein of at least 4% (w/w) or
   more. In one embodiment the mixture has a total protein content of at least 5% (w/w);
   preferably at least 6% (w/w); more preferably at least 8% (w/w) relative to the total
10 weight of the mixture. The denatured whey composition in the beverage is a major
   component of the protein content of the present beverage, whose composition is de
   scribed in Example 2.
   The mixture formed in step a) contains a total amount of protein of at least 4% (w/w).
15 In one embodiment, the beverage has a total amount of protein of at least 5% (w/w);
   preferably at least 6% (w/w); more preferably at least 8% (w/w) relative to the total
   weight of the beverage. The denatured whey composition in the beverage is a major
   component of the protein content of the beverage.
20 The mixture formed in step a) comprises water. In one embodiment, the mixture has a
   composition that is suitable for ingestion as a beverage and has a water content of at
   least 75% relative to the total weight of the mixture, and the total dry weight of the
   mixture is typically at most 26% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the mixture. For
   example, the beverage may have a water content of at least 85% relative to the total
25 weight of the beverage, and the total dry weight of the beverage is typically at most
   15% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage. In another embodiment, the
   mixture has a lower water content, suitable for providing a concentrate.
   The mixture formed in step a) comprises a sweetener that may be a natural sweetener
30 or an artificial sweetener. The natural sweetener may be a sugar in the form of one or
   more mono- and/or di-saccharide(s), or a non-sugar sweetener. The natural sweetener
   may be a native component of the denatured whey protein composition and/or the fruit
   flavouring agent in the beverage. In addition to the native sweetener content of the
   whey protein composition and/or fruit-flavouring agent, the mixture may contain one or
35 more sweetener(s) as described herein, in order to provide the desired sweetness of
   taste in the beverage to be ingested.
   In one embodiment, the mixture formed in step a) contains a total amount of carbohy
   drate sweetener in the range of 4-15% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the bever
40 age to be ingested. Alternatively, the beverage may comprise a total amount of carbo
                                                25

   hydrate sweetener in the range of 6-12% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the bev
   erage to be ingested. Since the denatured whey protein composition and/or the fruit
   flavouring agent in the beverage comprise natural sweetener, it will typically be suffi
   cient to add carbohydrate sweetener in an amount of about 2 - 10% relative to the to
 5 tal weight of the beverage to be ingested to reach the desired sweetness of taste. Alter
   natively, the beverage may comprise a total amount of added carbohydrate sweetener
   in the range of 4-8% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage to be ingested.
   The mixture formed in step a) comprises a fruit flavouring agent that may be selected
10 from one or more natural and/or artificial fruit flavouring agents, as described herein.
   Typically, the mixture comprises between 5 and 80% (w/w) of a fruit flavouring agent.
   In one embodiment, the fruit flavouring agent comprises, or even consists of, a juice or
   a juice concentrate of one or more fruits. When the fruit flavouring agent is provided as
   a concentrate of the pure juice of one or more fruits, this concentrate comprises
15 amounts in the range of 1-20% (w/w) of the beverage to be ingested. In one embodi
   ment, the concentrate comprises amounts in the range of 2-15% (w/w) of the bever
   age, such as in the range of 2-10-% (w/w). When the fruit flavouring agent is provided
   as a non-concentrate of pure juice of one or more fruits, this juice may comprise
   amounts in the range of 5 -60% (w/w) of the beverage to be ingested. In one embodi
20 ment, the pure juice comprises amounts in the range of 10-50% (w/w) of the beverage,
   or alternatively in the range of 15-40% (w/w) or 20 - 30%.
   The mixture formed in step a) comprises one or more minerals that are typically a na
   tive component of the denatured whey protein composition. The mineral composition of
25 the denatured whey protein composition and its measurement as ash is described here
   in. Typically, the total protein : ash content weight ratio of the denatured whey protein
   composition in the mixture is at least 15, preferably at least 20, and even more prefer
   ably at least 30, such at least 40 or at least 50.
30 A beverage containing the denatured whey protein composition typically has a total ash
   content in the range of 1-10% (w/w) relative to the dry weight of the beverage; prefer
   ably in the range of 3-8% (w/w), more preferably in the range of 4-6% (w/w) relative
   to the dry weight of the beverage.
35 The mixture formed in step a) comprises a food acid, as further described herein. Some
   or substantially all of the food acids in the mixture may be provided by the fruit flavour
   ing agent. The total amount of food acid in the mixture may be at least 0.1% (w/w)
   relative to the total weight of the beverage to be ingested, preferably at least 0.5%
   (w/w), more preferably at least 0.75% (w/w); even more preferably at least 1.0%
40 (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage to be ingested.
                                                 26

   In a further embodiment, the beverage has a total acid content in the range of 0.5%
   5% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage to be ingested, more preferably in
   the range of 0.7 - 3.0 (w/w), even more preferably in the range of 0.8% - 1.5% (w/w)
 5 relative to the total weight of the beverage to be ingested.
   These total amounts of food acids in the beverage correspond to the sum of food acid,
   including both acidic, partly deprotonated and fully deprotonated forms of the food acid.
10 The one or more additional ingredients in the mixture of step a) may be selected among
   one or more vitamin(s), one or more stabilizer(s), one or more emulsifier(s) or a com
   bination thereof. Vitamin(s), stabilizer(s) and emulsifier(s) that are suitable additional
   ingredients are described herein. The content of the one of more stabiliser(s) may be in
   the range of 0.01-3% (w/w) relative to the dry weight of the mixture, preferably in the
15 range of 0.1 to 0.5% (w/w). The content of the one of more emulsifier(s) may be in the
   range of 0.01-3% (w/w) relative to the dry weight of the beverage, preferably in the
   range of 0.1 to 0.5% (w/w).
   Step b) allows for the pH of the mixture to be adjusted to a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8
20 by addition of a food acid, if the pH is higher than 4.8. Typically, the food acid in the
   mixture of step a) will be sufficient to hold the pH of the mixture within the required
   range, but when this is insufficient it is preferred to adjust the pH with the same food
   acid as was added to the mixture.
25 The packaging of step c) may involve any suitable packaging techniques, and any suita
   ble container may be used for packaging the high protein, acidified dairy product.
   The packaging of step c) may for example involve aseptic packaging, i.e. the product is
   packaged under aseptic conditions. For example, the aseptic packaging may be per
30 formed by using an aseptic filling system, and it preferably involves filling the product
   into one or more aseptic container(s).
   Examples of useful containers are e.g. bottles, cartons, bricks and/or bags.
35 The heat-treatment cited in step c) of the method serves the purpose of lowering the
   microbial load such that the product has a prolonged shelf-life when stored at ambient
   temperatures, e.g. in the range of 70-150 degrees C, and maintaining the temperature
   in that range for a duration sufficient to kill a substantial number of the viable microor
   ganisms of the dairy base. Typically, at least 99% of the microorganisms are killed dur
40 ing the pasteurisation. Another purpose of the pasteurisation may be to denature at
                                                  27

   least some of the native whey protein which may be present in the denatured whey
   protein composition of step a).
   The duration of heating depends on the temperature(s) of heating. For example, the
 5 dairy base may be heated to one or more temperatures in the range of 70-85 degrees C
   for 1-30 minutes. The dairy base may e.g. be heated to one or more temperatures in
   the range of 80-95 degrees C for 0.5-15 minutes. Alternatively, the dairy base may be
   heated to one or more temperatures in the range of 90-110 degrees C for 0.2-10
   minutes. For example, the dairy base may be heated to one or more temperatures in
10 the range of 100-150 degrees C for 1 second-2 minutes.
   Step c) has two variants; in the case of variant 1) the mixture obtained from step b) is
   subjected to heat-treatment prior to, during or after packaging. If heat-treatment is
   performed prior to packaging, this requires the use of both pre-sterilized packaging and
15 sterile filling conditions, while heat-treatment during or after packaging reduces the
   need for stringent sterile conditions during filling and packaging.
   In the case of variant II), the components of the mixture in steps a) and b) can be
   heat-treated individually or as a combination of one or more the components. Addition
20 ally, some ingredients may be sterilized by other means such as sterile filtration or ion
   ising radiation. This has the advantage that sterilisation conditions can be optimised for
   the different types of components. For example, the whey protein composition and/or
   proteins can be sterilized separately from the fruit flavouring agent, the organic acid
   and the sweetener.
25
   The one or more additional ingredients may be selected among one or more vitamin(s),
   one or more stabilizer(s), one or more emulsifier(s) or a combination thereof. Vita
   min(s), stabilizer(s) and emulsifier(s) that are suitable additional ingredients are de
   scribed herein.
30
   Yet an aspect of the invention pertains to a heat-treated, high protein fruit and/or vege
   table preparation suitable for the production of fruit- and/or vegetable-flavour yoghurt,
35 the fruit and/or vegetable preparation comprising:
   - a fruit and/or vegetable material in an amount of at least 10% (w/w)
   - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an
   amount of at least 2% (w/w),
   the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a total solids content in the range of 15
40 80% (w/w).
                                                 28

   In the context of the present invention, the term "heat-treated fruit and/or vegetable
   preparation" relates to a fruit and/or vegetable preparation which has been heat-treated
   sufficiently to have a shelf-life of at least 10 days when stored at 5 degrees C, and pref
 5 erably at least 20 days shelf-life when stored at 5 degrees C, such as e.g. at least 40
   days shelf-life when stored at 5 degrees C.
   Some fruit and/or vegetable preparation may be stable at ambient temperature, thus
   the fruit and/or vegetable preparation may e.g. have a shelf-life of at least 10 days
10 when stored at 25 degrees C, and such as at least 20 days shelf-life when stored at 25
   degrees C, such as e.g. at least 40 days shelf-life when stored at 25 degrees C. Longer
   shelf-lives of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation are also possible, such as e.g. at
   least 60 days shelf-life when stored at 25 degrees C, or even at least 80 days shelf-life
   when stored at 25 degrees C.
15
   In some embodiments of the invention, the heat-treated fruit and/or vegetable prepara
   tion has a shelf-life at 25 degrees C of at least 4 months such as at least 6 months.
20 In the context of the term "high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation" pertains to a
   preparation which can be added to yoghurts to provide the yoghurt with the flavour of
   the fruit and/or vegetable. The high protein preparation contains at least 2% (w/w) pro
   tein and preferably even more protein.
25 The high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation is preferably pumpable but may still
   have a slightly gelly and/or viscous character which allows it to keep whole fruit or fruit
   pieces suspended during storage.
   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation preferably has a low level of syneresis.
30
   As will be appreciated, the term "high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation" co
   vers:
   - high protein fruit preparations, i.e. preparations that contain fruit material only and no
   vegetable material, or
35 - high protein vegetable preparations, i.e. preparations that contain vegetable material
   only and no fruit material, or
    - high protein fruit and vegetable preparations, i.e. preparations that contain both fruit
   material and vegetable material.
                                                   29

   In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the high protein fruit and/or vegetable
   preparation is a high protein fruit preparation in which case the fruit and/or vegetable
   material only contains fruit material.
 5 In other preferred embodiments of the invention, the high protein fruit and/or vegetable
   preparation is a high protein vegetable preparation in which case the fruit and/or vege
   table material only contains vegetable material.
   In yet other preferred embodiments of the invention, the high protein fruit and vegeta
10 ble preparation is a high protein fruit and vegetable preparation in which case the fruit
   and/or vegetable material contains both fruit material and vegetable material.
   The term "fruit and/or vegetable material" therefore relates to the total sum of fruit
   material and vegetable material used in the fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
15
   In the context of the present invention, the term "fruit and/or vegetable material" per
   tains to compositions that provide the flavour characteristics relating to the fruit and/or
   vegetable in question and which preferably are derived from fruit and/or vegetable.
20 The terms "fruit" and "vegetable" should be interpreted according to the culinary means
   of the terms.
   The fruit and/or vegetable material may for example comprise, or even consist of, fruit
   and/or vegetable. The fruit and/or vegetable may be used in the form of whole fruit
25 and/or vegetable or in the form of pieces of the fruit and/or vegetable.
   The fruit and/or vegetable material may for example comprise, or even consist of, the
   flesh of fruit and/or vegetable.
30 The term "flesh" in the context of fruits and/or vegetables pertains to the composition
   that is left with the outer surface (e.g. the skin or peel) and/when the seeds and kernels
   have been removed. For example, the flesh of an apple is the material which is left
   when the peel and apple core of the apple have been removed.
35 The fruit and/or vegetable material may comprise, or even consist of, a fruit and/or
   vegetable juice, e.g. with or without fruit and/or vegetable pieces.
   The term "fruit and/or vegetable pieces" pertain to particles or pieces of fruit and/or
   vegetable which are obtained by processing the whole fruit and/or vegetable or fruit
                                                 30

   and/or vegetable flesh into smaller bits. This processing may e.g. involve cooking,
   grinding, cutting, milling, blending, mashing and combinations thereof.
   The fruit and/or vegetable material may comprise, or even consist of, a fruit and/or
 5 vegetable juice concentrate, e.g. with or without fruit and/or vegetable pieces. The pre
   sent inventors have found that it is advantageous to use fruit juice concentrates and/or
   vegetable juice concentrates to obtain fruit preparations having very high protein con
   tents.
10 A fruit and/or vegetable juice concentrate preferably has a brix level of at least 25, and
   preferably at least 40, and even more preferred at least 50, such as at least 60. The
   brix level is preferably measured at 25 degrees C.
   The fruit and/or vegetable material may comprise, or even consist of, a fruit and/or
15 vegetable puree. A fruit and/or vegetable puree is obtainable by blending and optionally
   also cooking the fruit and/or vegetable.
   The fruit and/or vegetable material may comprise, or even consist of, a fruit and/or
   vegetable pulp. The term "fruit and/or vegetable pulp" pertains to the matter that is left
20 after at least some of the fruit and/or vegetable juice has been removed from the pro
   cessed fruit and/or vegetable.
   The fruit and/or vegetable material may comprise, or even consist of, artificial fruit fla
   vour. The artificial fruit flavour may be used alone or in combination with additional food
25 acid and/or sweetener.
   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may for example comprise at least 20% (w/w)
   fruit and/or vegetable material, preferably at least 30% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable
   material, and even more preferably at least 40% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material,
30 such as at least 50% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material.
   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may e.g. comprise in the range of 10-90% (w/w)
   fruit and/or vegetable material, preferably in the range of 20-70% (w/w) fruit and/or
   vegetable material, and even more preferably in the range of 30-60% (w/w) fruit
35 and/or vegetable material.
   The fruit and/or vegetable material may comprise or even consist of whole fruit or a
   mixture of whole fruits.
40 The fruit and/or vegetable material may comprise or even consist of processed fruit.
                                                 31

   In some embodiments of the invention, the fruit and/or vegetable material is a fruit
   flavouring agent as defined herein.
 5 In some embodiments of the invention, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is a high
   protein fruit-flavoured beverage described herein.
   The fruit and/or vegetable material may contain two or more components selected from
   whole fruit, processed fruit, a fruit flavour agent or a combination thereof. The fruit
10 and/or vegetable material may e.g. contain both whole fruit and fruit juice. Alternative
   ly, the fruit and/or vegetable material may e.g. contain fruit pulp and fruit juice. Alter
   natively, the fruit and/or vegetable material may e.g. contain fruit pulp and fruit juice
   concentrate.
15 The fruit and/or vegetable material contains a single type of fruit, such as e.g. straw
   berry or cherry. Alternatively, the fruit and/or vegetable material may contain at least
   two different types of fruit.
   Non-limiting examples of suitable fruits are orange, lemon, lime, pineapple, kiwi, papa
20 ya, apple, banana, pear, peach, strawberry, raspberry, cherry, cranberry, blackcurrant,
   grape fruit, boysenberry, blackberry, fig, redcurrant, gooseberry, pomegranate and/or
   melon.
   Non-limiting examples of suitable vegetables are tomato, cucumber, red pepper, chilli
25 pepper, onion, garlic, carrot, beed root, spinach and/or celeriac.
   Some fruits and/or vegetables, such as kiwi, pineapple and papaya, contain protease
   enzymes that may hydrolyse the protein of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation
   thereby degrading the organoleptic properties of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation
30 and food products including the fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
   It is therefore preferred that fruit and/or vegetable preparation contains substantially no
   proteases that digest whey protein or denatured whey protein.
35 It may therefore be preferred to heat-treat the fruit and/or vegetable material or the
   fruit and/or vegetable preparation sufficiently to inactivate substantially all protease
   activity.
   It is sometimes preferred that the fruit and/or vegetable material contains non-soluble
40 fruit and/or vegetable solids such as primarily fruit or vegetable fibre, the non
                                                  32

   dissolvable parts of the fruit flesh, optionally also seeds and skin. Thus, the term "non
   soluble" in this context means non-soluble in water.
   The amount of non-soluble fruit and/or vegetable solids is easily determined by:
 5 i) dispersing the sample to be analysed thoroughly in water,
   ii) separating the non-soluble solids by centrifugation at 15000 g for 5 minutes,
   iii) removing the supernatant (which contains soluble solids),
   iv) re-dispersing the solids that were not present in the supernatant thoroughly in water
   v) repeating steps ii)-iv) 4 times
10 vi) measuring the amount of solids that remain after a total of 5 times washing and
   centrifugation. The method Example 1.7 can be used for the measurement of step vi).
   The fruit and/or vegetable material may for example contain a total amount of non
15 soluble fruit and/or vegetable solids of at most 30% (w/w dry weight), for example at
   most 20%, such as at most 10%, e.g. at most 5%.
   However, for some uses a low content of non-soluble fruit and/or vegetable solids are
   preferred. This is for example the case if the fruit and/or vegetable preparation should
20 contain a very high amount of protein. Thus, the fruit and/or vegetable material may
   have a total amount of non-soluble fruit and/or vegetable solids of at most 1% (w/w dry
   weight).
   It may be desirable that the fruit and/or vegetable material contains whole fruit or fruit
25 or vegetable pieces and hence insoluble fruit or vegetable solids. Thus, in some embod
   iments of the invention the fruit and/or vegetable material contains a total amount of
   non-soluble fruit and/or vegetable solids of at least 0.5% (w/w dry weight), preferably
   at least 1% (w/w dry weight), and even more preferred at least 5% (w/w dry weight).
   For example, the fruit and/or vegetable material may contain a total amount of non
30 soluble fruit and/or vegetable solids of at least 10% (w/w dry weight), e.g. at least 15%
   (w/w dry weight), such as at least 20% (w/w dry weight).
   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation typically comprises a sweetener.
35 A range of different sweeteners may be used. However, the sweetener typically com
   prises a carbohydrate sweetener, a sugar alcohol and/or a high intensity sweetener
   (HIS).
   Examples of useful carbohydrate sweetener, a sugar alcohol and high intensity sweet
40 ener (HIS) are described herein.
                                                  33

   The total amount of carbohydrate sweetener and a sugar alcohol in the fruit and/or
   vegetable preparation may for example be in the range of 5-70% (w/w).
 5 For example, the total amount of carbohydrate sweetener and a sugar alcohol in the
   fruit and/or vegetable preparation may be in the range 0.01-4% (w/w).
   If used, the total amount of HIS in the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is typically in
10 the range of 0.01-1% (w/w). For example, the total amount of HIS may be in the range
   of 0.01-0.5% (w/w). Alternatively, the total amount of HIS may be in the range of 0.03
   0.3% (w/w).
   If HIS is used, less carbohydrate sweetener and/or sugar alcohol is required. The pre
15 sent inventors have found that if at least part of the carbohydrate sweetener is replaced
   with HIS, more insoluble protein particles can be introduced into the fruit and/or vege
   table preparation without destroying its pumpability and organoleptic properties. Alter
   natively, if the total protein is kept constant, the replacement of carbohydrate sweeten
   er/sugar alcohol with HIS makes the fruit and/or vegetable preparation less viscous and
20 e.g. more suitable for some drinking yoghurt applications.
   Thus, in preferred embodiments of the invention the fruit and/or vegetable preparation
   comprises a total amount of carbohydrate sweetener and sugar alcohol of at most 20%
   (w/w) and at least 0.01% HIS. For example, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation may
25 comprise a total amount of carbohydrate sweetener and sugar alcohol of at most 15%
   (w/w) and at least 0.02% HIS. Alternatively, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation may
   comprise a total amount of carbohydrate sweetener and sugar alcohol of at most 5%
   (w/w) and at least 0.05% HIS.
30 The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may furthermore comprise a thickening agent.
   The thickening agent may for example comprise a carbohydrate-based thickening agent
   or a protein-based thickening agent.
35 Non-limiting examples of carbohydrate-based thickening agents include locust bean
   gum, guar gum, alginates, cellulose, xanthan gum, carboxymethyl cellulose, microcrys
   talline cellulose, carrageenans, pectins, starches and mixtures thereof.
   Pectins are especially preferred, such as e.g. low methylester pectins, low
40 methylester amidated pectins or high methylester pectins.
                                                  34

   Non-limiting examples of protein-based thickening agents are gelatine and non
   denatured whey protein.
 5 In some embodiments of the invention, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation does not
   contain carbohydrate-based thickening agents beyond what is inherently present in the
   fruit and/or vegetable material.
   For example, it may be preferred that the fruit and/or vegetable preparation does not
10 contain artificial carbohydrate-based thickening agents.
   Alternatively, it may be preferred that the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is substan
   tially free of carbohydrate-based thickening agents, meaning that it contains at most
   0.05% (w/w) carbohydrate-based thickening agents.
15
   The total amount carbohydrate-based thickening agent are typically used in an amount
   of at most 5% (w/w), preferably at most 2% (w/w), even more preferably at most 1%
   (w/w), such as e.g at most 0.5% (w/w).
20 For example, the total amount of carbohydrate-based thickening agent may be in the
   range of 0.01-5% (w/w), e.g. in the range of 0.01-2% (w/w), such as in the range of
   0.01-1% (w/w), such as e.g. in the range of 0.01-0.5% (w/w).
   The total amount protein-based thickening agent may be at most 5% (w/w), preferably
25 at most 2% (w/w), even more preferably at most 1% (w/w), such as e.g at most 0.5%
   (w/w).
   The total amount of protein-based thickening agent is in the range of 0.01-5% (w/w),
   e.g. in the range of 0.02-2% (w/w), such as in the range of 0.05-1% (w/w), such as
30 e.g. in the range of 0.1-0.5% (w/w).
   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may furthermore comprise one or more food
   acceptable colouring agents.
35 The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may furthermore comprise a fat, but typically in
   relatively small amounts. Typically, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation contains at
   most 5% (w/w) fat. Preferably, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation contains at most
   2% (w/w) fat. Even more preferably the fruit and/or vegetable preparation contains at
   most 1% (w/w). It may even be preferred that the fruit and/or vegetable preparation
40 contains substantially no fat, e.g. at most 0.1% (w/w) fat.
                                                 35

   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation normally has a pH in the range of 3.0-5.0, pref
   erably in the range of 3.2-4.8, and even more preferably in the range of 3.4-4.6.
 5 The present inventors have found that adjusting the pH of the high protein fruit and/or
   vegetable preparation into the right range is advantageous and provides improved or
   ganoleptic properties. The added protein typically has a pH which is close to neutral and
   a high buffer capacity. The pH of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation may therefore
   be outside the preferred range unless it is adjusted.
10
   The pH is preferably adjusted by addition of food acids.
   Thus, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation may e.g. comprise one or more food acids
   selected from the group consisting of citric acid, malic acid, tartaric acid, acetic acid,
15 benzoic acid, butyric acid, lactic acid, fumaric acid, succinic acid, ascorbic acid, adipic
   acid, phosphoric acid and mixtures thereof. In a further embodiment, some or substan
   tially all of the food acid in the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is provided by the fruit
   and/or vegetable material
20 The total amount of food acid in the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is normally at
   least 0.1% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the preparation, preferably at least
   0.5% (w/w), more preferably at least 0.75% (w/w); even more preferably at least
   1 .0% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the preparation.
25 The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may e.g. have a total food acid content in the
   range of 0.1% - 5% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the preparation, more prefera
   bly in the range of 0.3 - 3.0 (w/w), even more preferably in the range of 0.5% - 1.5%
   (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage.
30 These total amounts of food acids in the fruit and/or vegetable preparation correspond
   to the sum of food acid, including both acidic, partly deprotonated and fully deprotonat
   ed forms of the food acid.
   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may be tailored to different applications which
35 require different viscosities of the preparation. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation
   typically has a viscosity in the range of 5-4000 cP.
   The viscosity of a fruit and/or vegetable preparation is preferably measured as de
   scribed in Nautiyal, International Journal of Food Science and Nutrition Engineering
40 2012, 2(2): pages 6-11.
                                                   36

   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may for example have a viscosity of 5-2000 cP,
   e.g. 10-1000 cP, such as for example 20-500 cP, or e.g. 10-300 cP. These relatively low
   viscosities may e.g. be useful for preparing low viscosity acidified dairy products such as
 5 drinking yoghurts.
   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may have a viscosity in the range of 500-4000
   cP, e.g. 800-3500 cP, such as for example 1000-3000 cPor e.g. 1500-3500 cP. These
   relatively high viscosities may e.g. be useful for preparing acidified dairy products of
10 higher viscosity such as e.g. stirred yoghurts. These fruit and/or vegetable preparations
   may also be useful for drinking yoghurts.
   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may also have a viscosity in the range of 10
   3500 cP, e.g. 20-3000 cP, such as for example 40-2000 cP or e.g. 50-1500 cP.
15
   A significant portion of the protein of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation comes from
   insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron, and prefer
   ably insoluble whey protein particles.
20 In some embodiments of the invention, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation compris
   es insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an
   amount of at least 4% (w/w), preferably at least 6% (w/w), and even more preferably
   at least 8% (w/w).
25 The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may e.g. comprise insoluble whey protein parti
   cles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an amount in the range of 2
   30% (w/w), preferably in the range of 4-25% (w/w), and even more preferably in the
   range of 6-20% (w/w), such as e.g. in the range of 8-18% (w/w).
30 Insoluble protein particles may contain a range of different denatured protein types.
   However, in some embodiments of the invention, insoluble protein particles having a
   particle size in the range of 1-10 micron comprise or even consist of insoluble protein
   particles selected from the group consisting of denatured whey protein, denatured egg
   white protein, denatured pea protein and denatured soy protein.
35
   For example, the insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10
   micron may comprise, or even consist, of denatured egg white protein.
   Alternatively, the insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10
40 micron may comprise, or even consist, of denatured soy protein.
                                                 37

   The insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron may
   e.g. comprise, or even consist, of denatured pea protein.
 5 However, it is presently preferred that the insoluble protein particles having a particle
   size in the range of 1-10 micron, comprise or even consist, of denatured whey protein.
   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may furthermore comprise undenatured protein,
   e.g. undenatured whey protein.
10
   For example, the weight ratio between undenatured protein and insoluble protein parti
   cles may be at most 1:1, preferably at most 1:2, and even more preferably at most 1:4,
   such asat most 1:10.
15 Undenatured whey protein forms weak gel when heated at acidic pH and may therefore
   be used as a thickening agent.
   For example, the weight ratio between undenatured protein and insoluble protein parti
   cles may be at most 1:1, preferably at most 1:2, and even more preferably at most 1:4,
20 such asat most 1:10.
   The weight ratio between undenatured protein and insoluble protein particles may e.g.
   be in the range of 1:1 - 1:20. For example, the weight ratio between undenatured pro
   tein and insoluble protein particles may be in the range of 1:2- 1:15. Alternatively, the
25 weight ratio between undenatured protein and insoluble protein particles may be in the
   range of 1:4 -1:15, such as in the range 1:4 - 1:10.
   In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the insoluble protein particles are pro
   vided by a denatured whey protein composition as defined herein, e.g. a denatured
30 whey protein composition containing:
                  - a total amount of protein of at least 60% (w/w) on a dry weight basis
                  relative to the total weight of the denatured whey protein composition,
                  - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1
                  10 micron, where the amount of said insoluble whey protein particles is in
35                the range of 50-100% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
                  denatured whey protein composition.
   The denatured whey protein composition may for example contain:
                                                  38

                    - a total amount of protein of at least 60% (w/w) on a dry weight basis
                     relative to the total weight of the denatured whey protein composition,
                      - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of
                     1-10 micron, where the amount of said insoluble whey protein particles
  5                  is in the range of 50-90% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of
                    the denatured whey protein composition, and
                    - a total amount of soluble alpha-lactalbumin and beta-lactoglobulin in
                    the range of 5-40% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
                    denatured whey protein composition.
10
    The fruit and/or vegetable preparation typically has a total amount of protein of at least
    2% (w/w), and preferably at least 6% (w/w), and even more preferably at least 8%
    (w/w).
15
    The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may e.g. have a total amount of protein in the
    range of 2-30% (w/w), preferably in the range of 4-25% (w/w), and even more prefer
    ably in the range of 6-20% (w/w), such as e.g. in the range of 8-18% (w/w).
20  The fruit and/or vegetable preparation typically has a total solids content in the range of
    15-85% (w/w). The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may e.g. have a total solids con
    tent in the range of 15-60% (w/w), for example 20-55% (w/w), such as e.g. 25-50%
    (w/w).
25  Alternatively, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation may have a total solids content in
    the range of 40-80% (w/w), for example 45-75% (w/w), such as e.g. 50-70% (w/w).
    Also, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation may have a total solids content in the range
    of 20-70% (w/w), for example 30-60% (w/w), such as e.g. 35-55% (w/w).
30
    The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may have a total amount of non-soluble fruit
    and/or vegetable solids of at most 10% (w/w relative to the total weight of the fruit
    and/or vegetable preparation), for example at most 5% (w/w relative to the total
    weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation), e.g. at most 1% (w/w relative to the
35  total weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation).
    The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may have a total amount of non-soluble fruit
    and/or vegetable solids of most 0.1% (w/w relative to the total weight of the fruit
    and/or vegetable preparation).
40
                                                   39

   However, if the fruit and/or vegetable preparation comprises a significant amount of
   whole fruit or pieces of fruit and/or vegetable, it normally also contains a significant
   amount of non-soluble fruit and/or vegetable solids. Thus, the fruit and/or vegetable
   preparation may comprise a total amount of non-soluble fruit and/or vegetable solids in
 5 the range of 0.1-10% (w/w relative to the total weight of the fruit and/or vegetable
   preparation), for example in the range of 0.2-8% (w/w relative to the total weight of
   the fruit and/or vegetable preparation), or e.g. in the range of 0.5-5% (w/w relative to
   the total weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation).
10 In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the heat-treated, high protein fruit
   and/or vegetable preparation comprises:
   - a fruit and/or vegetable material in an amount of at least 10% (w/w)
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in
   an amount in the range of 6-20% (w/w),
15 - a sweetener
   - the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a total solids content in the range of 15
   80% (w/w), a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8.
20 In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the heat-treated, high protein fruit
   and/or vegetable preparation comprises:
   - a fruit and/or vegetable material in an amount of at least 10% (w/w)
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in
   an amount in the range of 8-18% (w/w),
25 - a sweetener
   - the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a total solids content in the range of 15
   80% (w/w), a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8.
   In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the heat-treated, high protein fruit
30 and/or vegetable preparation comprises:
   - a fruit and/or vegetable material in an amount of at least 10% (w/w)
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in
   an amount in the range of 6-20% (w/w),
   - total amount of carbohydrate sweetener and sugar alcohol of at most 20% (w/w) and
35 at least 0.01% HIS,
   - the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a total solids content in the range of 15
   80% (w/w), and a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8.
   In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the heat-treated, high protein fruit
40 and/or vegetable preparation comprises:
                                                40

   - a fruit and/or vegetable material in an amount of at least 10% (w/w), said fruit and/or
   vegetable material comprising whole fruit and/or pieces of fruit flesh,
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in
   an amount in the range of 6-20% (w/w),
 5 - the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a total solids content in the range of 15
   80% (w/w), and a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8.
   In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the heat-treated, high protein fruit
   and/or vegetable preparation comprises:
10 - a fruit and/or vegetable material in an amount of at least 10% (w/w), wherein a said
   fruit and/or vegetable preparation is a fruit and/or vegetable juice concentrate compris
   ing at most 5% (w/w dry weight) non-soluble fruit and/or vegetable solids,
   - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in
   an amount in the range of 6-20% (w/w),
15 - the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a total solids content in the range of 15
   80% (w/w), and a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8.
   Yet an aspect of the invention pertains to a method of producing a high protein fruit
   and/or vegetable preparation, the method comprising the steps of:
20
   1) providing:
   - a fruit and/or vegetable material,
   - insoluble protein particles, preferably insoluble whey protein particles, having a parti
   cle size in the range of 1-10 micron,
25 - optionally extra water, and
   - optionally, one or more additional ingredients,
   2) combining the fruit and/or vegetable material, the insoluble protein particles having a
   particle size in the range of 1-10 micron, and optionally also the one or more additional
30 ingredients to obtain a mixture wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material is present in
   an amount of at least 10% (w/w) and wherein the insoluble whey protein particles hav
   ing a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron is present in an amount of at least 2%
   (w/w), and
35 3) heat-treating the mixture of step 2) thereby obtaining the heat-treated high protein
   fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
   The method may furthermore comprise a step 4) of packaging the heat-treated fruit
40 and/or vegetable preparation.
                                                 41

   The source of the insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10
   micron may e.g. be a dry powder or a suspension. The source of the insoluble protein
   particles may for example be a denatured whey protein composition as defined herein.
 5
   When the source of the insoluble protein particles is provided in the form of powder, it is
   prefered to suspend it in water before it is mixed with the fruit and/or vegetable materi
   al.
10 While the suspension of the insoluble protein particles in principle can be mixed imme
   diately with fruit and/or vegetable material, it is preferred to allow the insoluble protein
   particles to hydrate in the suspension for at least 20 minutes before it is mixed with the
   fruit and/or vegetable material. The insoluble protein particles may for example be al
   lowed to hydrate for at least 30 minutes, such as for at least 1 hour or at least 2 hours.
15
   While not always being necessary, it is sometimes preferred that the suspension con
   taining the insoluble protein particles is subjected to homogenisation before it is mixed
   with the fruit and/or vegetable material.
20 The present inventors have found that sometimes it is advantageous to make the sus
   pension containing the insoluble protein particles relatively concentrated to reduce the
   dillution of fruit and/or vegetable material.
   Thus, the suspension may e.g. comprise at least 10% (w/w) insoluble protein particles
25 having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron, preferably at least 15% (w/w), even
   more preferably at least 20% (w/w) such as at least 25% (w/w).
   For example, the suspension may comprise an amount of insoluble protein particles
   having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron, in the range of 10-40% (w/w) pref
30 erably in the range of 15-35% (w/w), even more preferably in the range of 20-35%
   (w/w), such as in the range of 25-35% (w/w).
   If a thickening agent such as e.g. a pectin is to be used, it is preferred that it is dis
   solved in water or an aqueous solution having a temperature of at least 50 degrees C.
35 The thickener may for example be mixed into the suspension containing the insoluble
   protein particles.
   In some preferred embodiments of the invention, step 2) involves:
                                                 42

                - Mixing the source of the insoluble protein particles with the extra water
                    and allowing the suspension to hydrate for at least 20 minutes at at most
                    10 degrees C.
                - The protein mixture is heated to at a temperature in the range of 50-70
  5                 degrees C, and if carbohydrate-based thickening agent is used, it is
                    mixed into and dissolved in the heated protein suspension,
                - Heating the fruit and/or vegetable material, optionally adding one or more
                    additional ingredients such as sweetener, to a temperature of at least 85
                    degrees C for at least 5 minutes,
10              - Mixing the heat-treated fruit and/or vegetable material with the heat
                    treated protein suspension, and
                - Adjusting the pH of the combined mixture to a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8.
    In other preferred embodiments of the invention, step 2) involves:
15
                - Mixing the source of the insoluble protein particles with the extra water
                    and allowing the suspension to hydrate for at least 20 minutes at at most
                    10 degrees C.
                - Providing a conventional fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a total
20                  protein content of at most 1% (w/w),
                - Mixing the conventional fruit and/or vegetable preparation with the protein
                    suspension, and
                - Adjusting the pH of the combined mixture to a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8.
25
    In some preferred embodiments of the invention, step 2) involves:
                - Mixing the source of the insoluble protein particles with the fruit and/or
                    vegetable material, and optionally adding one or more additional ingredi
30                  ents such as sweetener, and allowing the resulting suspension to hydrate
                    for at least 20 minutes at at most 10 degrees C,
                - Adjusting the pH of the combined mixture to a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8.
    The pH adjustments may e.g. be performed using concentrated solutions of food acids,
35  such as citric acid.
    Step 3) of the method of producing the fruit and/or vegetable preparation involves
    heat-treating the preparation at at least 80 degrees C for at least 1 minute, such as at
    at least 80 degrees C for at least 5 minutes, or such as at at least 85 degrees for at
                                                 43

   least 5 minutes. As will be appreciated by the skilled person, even higher temperatures
   and longer exposure times may be used.
   Optionally, the heat-treated fruit and/or vegetable preparation can be subjected to
 5 smoothening, e.g. by stirring, pumping or homogenisation prior to the packaging.
   In step 4) of the method the preparation is packaged, e.g. under sterile conditions and
   using an inert atmosphere to pressurized the packaged fruit and/or vegetable prepara
   tion in the sealed container.
10
   The present inventors have found that it is challenging to prepare fruit and/or vegetable
   flavoured high protein dairy products, and particularly liquid dairy products because the
   addition of conventional fruit preparation, which normal has a low protein content, di
   lutes the protein content of the other ingredients. Fruit-flavoured yoghurt is convention
15 ally prepared by producing a non-flavoured acidified white base, which is then mixed
   with the fruit preparation. If a high protein white base is to be used (containing e.g.
   10% (w/w) total protein) and is to be mixed with a conventional fruit preparation (con
   taining e.g. 0.5% (w/w) total protein) in the proportion 2 parts white base to 1 part
   fruit preparation, the resulting fruit-flavoured yoghurt would only have a total protein
20 content of approx. 6.8% (w/w).
   The present inventors have invented a new type of fruit preparation (or fruit and/or
   vegetable preparation) which contains a significant amount of protein in addition to the
   fruit material that is normally present in the preparation. Examples of the preparation of
25 high protein fruit preparations are described in Examples 4-5.
   Examples 6-7 demonstrate that it is possible to prepare a high protein, fruit-flavoured
   dairy product without diluting the protein content of the white yoghurt base - which
   would not be the case if conventional pectin-based fruit preparation was used. The ex
30 amples furthermore demonstrate that the high protein fruit preparation can be used to
   give the final yoghurt product a higher protein content than that of the white base.
   This opens up for a new approach to producing high protein, fruit flavoured dairy prod
   ucts, which involves providing a conventional dairy base (e.g. a conventional yoghurt
35 white base) and adding a high protein, fruit preparation to the conventional dairy white
   base to produce a dairy product with a higher level of protein compared to the conven
   tional dairy product.
   An aspect of the invention therefore pertains to the use of the heat-treated, high protein
40 fruit preparation for increasing the total protein content of a food product, such as e.g.
                                                  44

   a fruit-flavoured acidified dairy product (e.g. yoghurt). It should be noted that the in
   ventive fruit preparation may be used to provide at least 30% (w/w) of the total protein
   of the final food product, and e.g. at least 50% (w/w) of the total protein of the final
   product, such as at least 75% (w/w) of the total protein of the final product. This is for
 5 example advantageous where the other ingredients of the food product have a lower
   protein content than the fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
   Another aspect of the invention pertains to a food product comprising the heat-treated,
   high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation as defined herein.
10
   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may be present in a separate part of the food
   product, which separate part only contains the fruit and/or vegetable preparation, or it
   may be blended with other components of the of the food product.
15 For example, the food product may contain a portion where the fruit and/or vegetable
   preparation is blended with other components of the food product and a separate part
   of the food product which separate part only contains the fruit and/or vegetable prepa
   ration.
20 The food product may for example comprise the fruit and/or vegetable preparation in an
   amount of at least 2% (w/w), preferably at least 10% (w/w), and even more preferably
   at least 20% (w/w), such as at least 40% (w/w).
   The food product may for example comprise the fruit and/or vegetable preparation in an
25 amount in the range of 2-80% (w/w), preferably in the range of 10-60% (w/w), and
   even more preferably in the range of 20-50% (w/w).
   The food product may be any kind of food product which can benefit from protein con
   tribution and/or the sensory contribution of the heat-treated, high protein fruit and/or
30 vegetable preparation.
   Non-limiting examples of such food products are bakery products such as bread, cakes,
   pies and pizzas; dessert products such as ice creams, puddings, fruit gels and sorbets;
   snack bars like mOsli bars and candy bars; dressings and dip-type products; sauces;
35 and spreads.
   In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the food product is an acidified dairy prod
   uct, and preferably a high protein, acidified dairy product.
                                                 45

   The acidified food product may e.g. be is selected from the group consisting of yoghurt,
   skyr, sour cream, sour buttermilk, cottage cheese, quark, fromage frais, and an acidifed
   whey beverage.
 5 Yet an aspect of the invention pertains to a high protein acidified dairy product compris
   ing at least 4% (w/w) protein, said high protein acidified dairy product comprising the
   heat-treted, high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation described herein.
   The fruit and/or vegetable preparation may be present in a separate part of the high
10 protein acidified dairy product which separate part only contains the fruit and/or vege
   table preparation. For example, the fruit and/or vegetable preparation may be present
   in a separate layer which only contains the fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
   In some embodiments of the invention the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is blended
15 or mixed with other components of the of the high protein acidified dairy product.
   In other embodiments of the invention the high protein acidified dairy product compris
   es a portion where the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is blended with other compo
   nents of the of the high protein acidified dairy product and a portion where the fruit
20 and/or vegetable preparation is present in a separate part of the high protein acidified
   dairy product which separate part contains only the fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
   The high protein acidified dairy product typically comprises the fruit and/or vegetable
   preparation in an amount of at least 2% (w/w). Preferably, high protein acidified dairy
25 product comprises the fruit and/or vegetable preparation in an amount at least 10%
   (w/w). Even more preferably, the high protein acidified dairy product comprises the fruit
   and/or vegetable preparation in an amount at least 20% (w/w).
   The high protein acidified dairy product may for example comprise fruit and/or vegeta
30 ble preparation in an amount in the range of 2-80% (w/w), preferably in the range of
   10-60% (w/w), and even more preferably in the range of 20-50% (w/w).
   In some preferred embodiments the high protein dairy product is a high protein, acidi
   fied dairy product containing:
35 - a total amount of protein of at least 7% (w/w), and
   - fruit and/or vegetable preparation in an amount of at least 2% (w/w).
   In the context of the present invention the term "acidified dairy product" relates to a
   dairy product having a pH of at most 5.5, such as at most 5.0 or even at most 4.7. An
40 acidified dairy product may even have a pH of at most 4.4. The pH range of an acidified
                                                46

   dairy product is typically pH 3.5-5.5. Preferably the acidified dairy product has a pH in
   the range of pH 4.0-5.0. Even more preferably, the acidified dairy product has a pH in
   the range of pH 4.2-4.8, such as e.g. approx. pH 4.6.
 5 In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the high protein, acidified dairy prod
   uct has a total amount of protein of at least 8% (w/w). For example, the high protein,
   acidified dairy product may have a total amount of protein of at least 10% (w/w). The
   high protein, acidified dairy product may e.g. have a total amount of protein of at least
   12% (w/w). Alternatively, the high protein, acidified dairy product may e.g. have a total
10 amount of protein of at least 14% (w/w).
   An even higher protein content may be desired, thus, the high protein, acidified dairy
   product may have a total amount of protein of at least 16% (w/w). The high protein,
   acidified dairy product may e.g. have a total amount of protein of at least 18% (w/w).
15 Alternatively, the high protein, acidified dairy product may e.g. have a total amount of
   protein of at least 21%   (w/w).
   Typically, the high protein, acidified dairy product has a total amount of protein in the
   range of 7-25% (w/w). For example, the high protein, acidified dairy product may have
20 a total amount of protein in the range of 8-20% (w/w). The high protein, acidified dairy
   product may e.g. have a total amount of protein of at least 10-18% (w/w). Alternative
   ly, the high protein, acidified dairy product may e.g. have a total amount of protein of at
   least 12-16% (w/w).
25 In some embodiments of the invention, the high protein, acidified dairy product has a
   total amount of protein in the range of 21-25% (w/w).
   In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the high protein, acidified dairy prod
   uct is a yoghurt.
30
   In the context of the present invention, the term "yoghurt" refers to an acidic or fer
   mented food or beverage product prepared from a one or more dairy components, and
   which has been acidified by means of microorganisms and/or chemical acidulants. It
   should be noted that the term "yoghurt" also refers to yoghurt-like products that may
35 include non-dairy derived lipids, flavourings and food-approved stabilisers, acids and
   texturizers. Heat-treated yoghurt and yoghurt-like products are also included by the
   term yoghurt. The term "yoghurt" includes set yoghurts, stirred yoghurts, drinking yo
   ghurt and Petit Suisse.
40 The yoghurts according to the present invention may, but need not, contain casein.
                                                 47

   For example, the high protein yoghurt may have a weight ratio between casein and
   whey protein of at most 50:50. For example, the weight ratio between casein and whey
   protein of the high protein yoghurt may be at most 30:70. The weight ratio between
 5 casein and whey protein of the high protein yoghurt may e.g. be at most 20:80. Alter
   natively, the weight ratio between casein and whey protein of the high protein yoghurt
   may e.g. be at most 15:85, such as e.g. at most 10:90.
   In some preferred embodiments of the invention high protein yoghurt is a set yoghurt.
10 Set yoghurts (or set-type yoghurts) are typically characterised in a gelly-like texture
   and are often allowed to incubate and cool in the final package. Set yoghurts are nor
   mally non-pourable and are often eaten out of the packaging with a spoon.
   In other preferred embodiments of the invention, the high protein yoghurt is a stirred
15 yoghurt. Relative to a set yoghurt, a stirred yoghurt is pourable but often still rather
   viscous. The term "stirred" is most likely based on the fact that the acidified yoghurt
   milks originally were stirred to break the formed coagulum/gel and make the product
   more liquid and pumpable. However, in the context of the present invention, the term
   "stirred yoghurt" also encompasses yoghurts which have not been subjected to stirring,
20 but which have obtained a liquid-like, viscous texture by other ways.
   A stirred yoghurt may for example have a viscosity of at most 2500 cP, and typically in
   the range of 350-2500 cP. For example, the viscosity of the stirred yoghurt may be in
   the range of 400-2000 cP. The viscosity of the stirred yoghurt may e.g. be in the range
25 of 500-1500 cP. Alternatively, the viscosity of the stirred yoghurt may be in the range of
   600-1250 cP.
   In further preferred embodiments of the invention, the high protein yoghurt is a drink
   ing yoghurt, which may be perceived as low viscosity, drinkable yoghurt. A drinking
30 yoghurt may for example have a viscosity of at most 400 cP, and typically in the range
   of 4-400 cP. For example, the viscosity of the drinking yoghurt may be in the range of
   10-300 cP. The viscosity of the drinking yoghurt may e.g. be in the range of 15-200 cP.
   Alternatively, the viscosity of the drinking yoghurt may be in the range of 20-150 cP.
35 In some preferred embodiments of the invention, the high protein, acidified dairy prod
   uct, e.g. a high protein yoghurt, comprises one or more sweeteners, such as carbohy
   drate sweeteners, polyols and/or high intensity sweeteners.
   The high protein, acidified dairy product, e.g. a high protein yoghurt, may e.g. comprise
40 a total amount of carbohydrate sweetener in the range of 1-20% (w/w) relative to the
                                                 48

   total weight of the acidified dairy product. Alternatively, the acidified dairy product, e.g.
   a high protein yoghurt, may comprise a total amount of carbohydrate sweetener in the
   range of 4-15% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the acidified dairy product. Since
   other ingredients of the acidified dairy product inherently may comprise some carbohy
 5 drate sweetener, such as lactose, it will often be sufficient to add carbohydrate sweet
   ener in an amount of about 2 - 10% relative to the total weight of the acidified dairy
   product to reach the desired sweetness of taste. Alternatively, the acidified dairy prod
   uct may comprise a total amount of added carbohydrate sweetener in the range of 4
   8% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the acidified dairy product.
10
   A high protein, acidified dairy product, e.g. a high protein yoghurt, containing the dena
   tured whey protein composition may further comprise one of more non-carbohydrate
   natural or artificial sweeteners as described herein.
15 If used, the total amount of HIS is typically in the range of 0.01-2% (w/w). For exam
   ple, the total amount of HIS may be in the range of 0.05-1.5% (w/w). Alternatively, the
   total amount of HIS may be in the range of 0.1-1.0% (w/w).
   It may furthermore be preferred that sweetener, comprises or even consists of, one or
20 more polyol sweetener(s). Non-limiting examples of useful polyol sweetener are malt
   itol, mannitol, lactitol, sorbitol, inositol, xylitol, threitol, galactitol, or combinations
   thereof.
   If used, the total amount of polyol sweetener is typically in the range of 1-20% (w/w).
25 For example, the total amount of polyol sweetener may be in the range of 2-15%
   (w/w). Alternatively, the total amount of polyol sweetener may be in the range of 4
   10% (w/w).
   In one embodiment the high protein, acidified dairy product, e.g. a high protein yo
30 ghurt, contains the casein, e.g. in the form of caseinate or micellar casein. The use of
   micellar casein is sometimes preferred as it contributes less to the viscosity of the final
   product than caseinate.
   Examples of suitable sources of micellar casein are whole milk, non-fat milk, skimmed
35 milk, semi-skimmed milk, and butter milk. These sources may be used both as liquid
   milk or in dried, powdered form.
   The caseinate may e.g. be Na-caseinate or Ca-caseinate or other caseinate salts.
                                                     49

   High protein yoghurt may e.g. contain casein in an amount in the range of 0-90% (w/w)
   relative to the total amount of protein, such as e.g. in the range of 0-70% (w/w) rela
   tive to the total amount of protein. When using a high casein level the yoghurts tend to
   become highly viscous and may even form a non-pourable gel. Stirred high protein yo
 5 ghurts often contain casein in an amount in the range of 25-60% (w/w) relative to the
   total amount of protein, such as e.g. in the range of 30-55% (w/w) relative to the total
   amount of protein, or even in the range of 35-50% (w/w) relative to the total amount of
   protein.
10 High protein drinking yoghurt may e.g. contain casein in an amount in the range of 0
   35% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein, such as e.g. in the range of 0-30%
   (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein. High protein drinking yoghurts may e.g.
   contain casein in an amount in the range of 5-30% (w/w) relative to the total amount of
   protein. For example, high protein drinking yoghurts may contain casein in an amount
15 in the range of 10-30% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein. Alternatively, high
   protein drinking yoghurts may contain casein in an amount in the range of 15-30%
   (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein, or even in the range of 20-30% (w/w)
   relative to the total amount of protein.
20 In some embodiments of the invention, the acidified dairy product, e.g. a high protein
   yoghurt, furthermore contains native whey protein e.g. in the form for whey protein
   concentrates or whey protein isolates. Native whey protein is also provided by several
   milk protein sources, such as liquid or dried milk and by milk protein concentrates.
25 High protein yoghurt may e.g. contain native whey protein in an amount in the range of
   0-40% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein, such as e.g. in the range of 2-30%
   (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein. High protein yoghurts may e.g. contain
   native whey protein in an amount in the range of 3-30% (w/w) relative to the total
   amount of protein. For example, high protein yoghurts may contain native whey protein
30 in an amount in the range of 4-25% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein. Al
   ternatively, high protein yoghurts may contain native whey protein in an amount in the
   range of 5-20% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein, or even in the range of 6
   15% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein.
35 It should be noted that while both casein and native whey protein may be present in the
   ingredients of the acidified dairy product, such a high protein yoghurt, they often ag
   gregates and form part of gel networks and/or particles during the processing of the
   acidified dairy product - especially if prolonged pasteurisation is involved. The amounts
   of protein components of the acidified dairy product which are mentioned herein there
40 fore primarily relate to the ingredients which are used for producing the product.
                                                 50

   The acidified dairy product, e.g. a high protein yoghurt, may furthermore comprise one
   of more vitamin(s) and similar other ingredients such as vitamin A, vitamin D, vitamin
   E, vitamin K, thiamine, riboflavin, pyridoxine, vitamin B12, niacin, folic acid, pantothenic
 5 acid, biotin, vitamin C, choline, inositol, their salts, their derivatives, and combinations
   thereof.
   The acidified dairy product, e.g. a high protein yoghurt, may furthermore comprise one
   of more stabilizer(s). Suitable stabilizers which can be used in the present invention
10 include locust bean gum, guar gum, alginates, cellulose, xanthan gum, carboxymethyl
   cellulose, microcrystalline cellulose, carrageenans, pectins, inulin, and mixtures thereof.
   The content of the one of more stabiliser(s) may e.g. be in the range of 0.01-5% (w/w)
   relative to the dry weight of the product, preferably in the range of 0.1 to 0.5% (w/w).
15
   The acidified dairy product, e.g. a high protein yoghurt, may furthermore comprise one
   of more emulsifier(s). Suitable emulsifiers to be used are mono- and di-glycerides, citric
   acid esters of mono- and di-glycerides, diacetyltartaric acid esters of mono- and di
   glycerides polysorbate, lecithin, or polyol esters of fatty acids such as propylene glycol
20 monoester of fatty acids, as well as natural emulsifiers such as egg yolk, butter milk,
   raw acacia gum, rice bran extract, or mixtures thereof.
   The content of the one of more emulsifier(s) may be in the range of 0.01-3% (w/w)
   relative to the dry weight of the product, for example in the range of 0.1 to 0.5%
25 (w/w).
   In some preferred embodiments, the yoghurt is a stirred yoghurt comprising a white
   base and the high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation, wherein:
30 the white base is present in an amount of 10-90% (w/w) of the total product and com
   prises:
                  - a total amount of protein in the range of 9-18% (w/w) relative to the
                  weight of the white base,
                  - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10
35                micron in an amount of at least 2% (w/w),
                  - casein in an amount in the range of 30-65% (w/w) relative to the total
                  amount of protein of the white base,
                  - a total amount of fat of at most 10% (w/w), preferably at most 3%
                  (w/w) relative to the weight of the white base,
                                                  51

                 - a total amount of carbohydrate in the range of 2-20% (w/w) relative to
                 the weight of the white base, and
   the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is present in an amount of 10-90% (w/w) of the
   total product and comprises:
 5               - a total amount of protein in the range of 6-20% (w/w) relative to the
                 weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation, and
   the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a viscosity in the range of 500-4000 cP.
10 In some preferred embodiments, the yoghurt is a stirred yoghurt comprising a white
   base and the high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation, wherein:
   the white base is present in an amount of 50-85% (w/w) of the total product and com
   prises:
                 - a total amount of protein in the range of 9-18% (w/w) relative to the
15               weight of the white base,
                 - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10
                 micron in an amount of at least 2% (w/w),
                 - casein in an amount in the range of 30-65% (w/w) relative to the total
                 amount of protein of the white base,
20               - a total amount of fat of at most 10% (w/w), preferably at most 3%
                 (w/w) relative to the weight of the white base,
                 - a total amount of carbohydrate in the range of 2-20% (w/w) relative to
                 the weight of the white base, and
   the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is present in an amount of 15-50% (w/w) of the
25 total product and comprises:
                 - a total amount of protein in the range of 6-20% (w/w) relative to the
                 weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation, and
   the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a viscosity in the range of 500-4000 cP.
30
   In some preferred embodiments, the yoghurt is a stirred yoghurt comprising a white
   base and the high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation, wherein:
   the white base is present in an amount of 10-90% (w/w) of the total product and com
   prises:
35               - a total amount of protein in the range of 9-18% (w/w) relative to the
                 weight of the white base,
                 - casein in an amount in the range of 0-30% (w/w) relative to the total
                 amount of protein of the white base,
                 - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10
40               micron in an amount of at least 5% (w/w),
                                                 52

                  - a total amount of fat of at most 2% (w/w), preferably at most 3% (w/w)
                  relative to the weight of the white base,
                  - a total amount of carbohydrate in the range of 2-20% (w/w) relative to
                  the weight of the white base, and
  5 the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is present in an amount of 10-90% (w/w) of the
    total product and comprises:
                  - a total amount of protein in the range of 6-20% (w/w) relative to the
                  weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation, and
    the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a viscosity in the range of 5-2000 cP.
10
    In some preferred embodiments, the yoghurt is a stirred yoghurt comprising a white
    base and the high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation, wherein:
    the white base is present in an amount of 50-85% (w/w) of the total product and com
15  prises:
                  - a total amount of protein in the range of 9-18% (w/w) relative to the
                  weight of the white base,
                  - casein in an amount in the range of 0-30% (w/w) relative to the total
                  amount of protein of the white base,
20                - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10
                  micron in an amount of at least 5% (w/w),
                  - a total amount of fat of at most 2% (w/w), preferably at most 3% (w/w)
                  relative to the weight of the white base,
                  - a total amount of carbohydrate in the range of 2-20% (w/w) relative to
25                the weight of the white base, and
    the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is present in an amount of 15-85% (w/w) of the
    total product and comprises:
                  - a total amount of protein in the range of 6-20% (w/w) relative to the
                  weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation, and
30  the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a viscosity in the range of 5-2000 cP.
    Yet an aspect of the invention pertains to a method of producing the food product as
    defined herein, the method comprising the steps of
35  - providing a fruit and/or vegetable preparation as defined herein,
    - providing one or more additional ingredients, and
    - combining, and optionally also processing, the one or more additional ingredients and
    the fruit and/or vegetable preparation, thereby producing the food product.
40
                                                  53

    Another aspect of the invention pertains to a method of producing a fruit-flavoured,
    acidified dairy product, the method comprising the steps of:
    a) providing a pasteurised dairy base, e.g. pasteurised yoghurt milk,
  5
    b) providing a heat-treated high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation as defined
    herein,
    c) contacting the pasteurised dairy base with a chemical or microbial acidifying agent,
10  thereby obtaining the pre-acidification mixture,
    and
    d-variant 1) packaging the fruit and/or vegetable preparation and the pre-acidification
15  mixture in the same container and allowing the pre-acidification mixture to acidify in the
    container, or
    d-variant 2) allowing the pre-acidification mixture to acidify, optionally processing the
    acidified mixture, e.g. smoothening by stirring or homogenisation, and packaging a
20  combination of the acidified mixture and heat-treated fruit prep.
    The acidified food product may e.g. be is selected from the group consisting of yoghurt,
    skyr, sour cream, sour buttermilk, cottage cheese, quark, fromage frais, and an acidifed
    whey beverage.
25
    In preferred embodiments of the invention, the acidified dairy product is a yoghurt. The
    yoghurt may for example be a stirred yoghurt or a drinking yoghurt. Alternatively, the
    yoghurt may be a set yoghurt. The yoghurt may e.g. be a greek-style yoghurt.
30  The acidified dairy product typically has a pH in the range 3.0-5.5.
    The acidified dairy product may have a total protein content of at least 4% (w/w), for
    example at least 6% (w/w), such as at least 8% (w/w), e.g. at least 10% (w/w).
35  For example, the acidified dairy product may have a total protein content in the range
    of 4-30% (w/w), for example in the range of 6-25%, such in the range of 8-20%, e.g.
    in the range of 10-18% (w/w).
                                                 54

   Step a) involves the provision of the dairy base comprising at least one dairy compo
   nent and at least one carbohydrate. The dairy base may e.g. be a traditional yoghurt
   milk or a high protein yoghurt milk which has been enriched with caseins, milk protein
   concentrate or insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 mi
 5 cron.
   The dairy base of step a) may e.g. contains all or substantially all protein ingredients
   that go into the acidified dairy base.
10 The dairy base of step a) may e.g. comprise a total amount of protein of at least 7%
   (w/w), solids of the denatured whey protein composition amount of at least 2% (w/w).
   The dairy base of step a) may e.g. contain the types and amounts of protein ingredi
   ents, sweeteners, stabilisers, fats, and minerals mentioned in the context of the high
15 protein, acidified dairy product or the high protein yoghurt.
   The dairy base of step a) has been pastuerized by heating it to a temperature of at least
   70 degrees C, e.g. in the range of 70-150 degrees C, and maintaining the temperature
   of the dairy base in that range for a duration sufficient to kill a substantial number of
20 the viable microorganisms of the dairy base. Typically at least 99% of the microorgan
   isms are killed during the pasteurisation. Another purpose of the pasteurisation may be
   to denature at least some of the native whey protein which may be present in the dairy
   base of step a).
25 The duration of the pasteurisation depends on the temperature(s) to which the dairy
   based is heated and is typically somewhere between 1 second and 30 minutes.
   For example, the dairy base may be heated to one or more temperatures in the range
   of 70-85 degrees C for 1-30 minutes. The dairy base may e.g. be heated to one or more
30 temperatures in the range of 80-95 degrees C for 0.5-15 minutes. Alternatively, the
   dairy base may be heated to one or more temperatures in the range of 90-110 degrees
   C for 0.2-10 minutes. For example, the dairy base may be heated to one or more tem
   peratures in the range of 100-150 degrees C for 1 second-2 minutes.
35 After the heat-treatment the dairy base is cooled, e.g. to a temperature of at most 50
   degrees C, preferably even lower such as at most 45 degrees C or at most 40 degrees
   C.
   The pasteurized dairy base may also have been subjected to a homogenisation step
40 either before or after the heat-treatment.
                                                55

    The pastuerised dairy base of step a) is contacted with the acidifying agent in step c).
    The acidifying agent may for example be a bacterial culture, typically referred to as a
  5 starter culture, in which case the addition of the acidifying agent may be perceived as
    an inoculation of the dairy base, in which case one obtains an inoculated dairy base.
    Thus, in some embodiments of the invention the acidifying agent comprises a chemical
    acidifying agent.
10
    In the context of the present invention the term "chemical acidifying agent" pertains to
    a chemical compound capable of gradual or instantaneous reduction of the pH of the
    mixture.
15  The chemical acidifying agent may for example be a food acceptable acid (also referred
    as a food acid) and/or a lactone. Examples of useful acids are carboxylic acids, such as
    citric acid, tartaric acid and/or acetic acid. An example of a useful lactone is glucono
    delta-lactone (GDL).
20  In some embodiments of the invention the chemical acidifying agent comprises one or
    more components selected from the group consisting of acetic acid, lactic acid, malic
    acid, citric acid, phosphoric acid, and glucono delta-lactone.
    The actual concentration of the chemical acidifying agent depends on the specific formu
25  lation of dairy base. It is generally preferred that the chemical acidifying agent is used
    in a sufficient amount to reduce the pH of the mixture to at most pH 5.5, and preferably
    at most pH 5.0, such as e.g. at most pH 4.6.
    In some preferred embodiments of the invention the acidifying agent comprises, or
30  even is, a starter culture.
    In principle, any type of starter culture traditionally used in making yoghurt-type high
    protein acidified dairy product may be used. Starter cultures used in the dairy industry
    are normally mixtures of lactic acid bacterial strains, but a single strain starter culture
35  may also be useful in the present invention. Thus, in preferred embodiments, the one or
    more starter culture organism of the present process is a lactic acid bacterial species
    selected from the group consisting of Lactobacillus, Leuconostoc, Lactococcus, and
    Streptococcus. Commercial starter culture comprising one or more of these lactic acid
    bacterial species may be useful in the present invention.
40
                                                    56

    In some preferred embodiments of the invention the starter culture comprises one or
    more halotolerant bacterial culture(s).
    The amount of the added acidifying agent is typically relatively low compared to the
  5 amount of the dairy base.
    In some embodiments of the invention, the acidifying agent dilutes the dairy base by a
    factor of at most 1.05, preferably at most by a factor of 1.01, and even more preferably
    by a factor of at most 1.005.
10
    Flavouring and/or aromatic agents may be added to the dairy base to obtain a flavoured
    acidified dairy product. Flavours may be added as solids, but are preferably added in the
    form of liquids.
15  During step d) the acidifying agent is allowed to reduce the pH of the dairy base of step
    c).
    If the dairy base of step c) contains a starter culture the dairy base, which is an inocu
    lated dairy base, is incubated under conditions permitting the starter culture to become
20  metabolically active to produce said acidified dairy product. In some preferred embodi
    ments, the inoculated dairy base is incubated at a temperature between 32*C and 43*C
    until the desired pH is reached. The fermentation may be stopped by decreasing the
    temperature to around 10*C.
25  If the mixture contains a chemical acidifying agent, the chemical acidifying agent will
    normally start reducing the pH of the mixture as soon as the chemical acidifying agent
    forms part of the mixture. Some chemical acidifying agents, such as lactones and slowly
    dissolving acids, will provide a gradual pH reduction as they react with water or are dis
    solved.
30
    The temperature of the dairy base during the acidification of step d) is typically in the
    range of 20-50 degrees C, and preferably in the range of 32-45 degrees C.
    It should be noted that step d) comes in 2 variants. According to d-variant 1) the pre
35  acidification mixture from step c) is packaged together with the fruit and/or vegetable
    preparation, e.g. on-top of a fruit and/or vegetable preparation layer, and the pre
    acidification mixture is allowed to acidify the container in which it is packaged. It is also
    possible that the acidification has already started when the pre-acidification mixture is
    packaged according to step d-variant-1).
40
                                                  57

    In step d-variant 2) the pre-acidification mixture is allowed to acidify and reach its tar
    get pH before the packaging takes place. The acidified mixture may be subjected to
    further processing such as smoothing by stirring or homogenisation prior to the packag
    ing. The acidified mixture may be blended with the fruit and/or vegetable preparation or
  5 it may be packaged separately or in separate layers contacting each other.
    During step d) one or more additional ingredients may be added to the acidifed mixture.
    Useful examples of such additional ingredients are e.g. sweeteners, flavouring agents,
    additional denatured whey protein composition, stabilisers, emulsifiers and vitamins.
10  Examples of such additional ingredients are mentioned in the context of the composition
    of the high protein, acidified dairy product or the high protein yoghurt.
    The packaging may involve any suitable packaging techniques, and any suitable con
    tainer may be used for packaging the high protein, acidified dairy product.
15
    The packaging may for example involve aseptic packaging, i.e. the product is packaged
    under aseptic conditions. For example, the aseptic packaging may be performed by us
    ing an aseptic filling system, and it preferably involves filling the product into one or
    more aseptic container(s).
20
    Examples of useful containers are e.g. bottles, cartons, beakers, bricks, and/or bags.
    The packaging is preferably performed at or below room temperature. Thus, the tem
    perature of the product is preferably at most 30 degrees C during the packaging, pref
25  erably at most 25 degrees C and even more preferably at most 20 degrees C, such as at
    most 10 degrees C.
    The temperature of the product during packaging may for example be in the range of 2
    30 degrees C, and preferably in the range of 5-25 degrees C.
30
    It should be noted that embodiments and features described in the context of one
    of the aspects of the present invention also apply to the other aspects of the
    invention.
35
    All patent and non-patent references cited in the present application are hereby
    incorporated by reference in their entirety.
    The invention will now be described in further details in the following non-limiting
40  examples.
                                                  58

   EXAMPLES
   Example 1: Methods of analysis
 5
   Example 1.1: Quantification of the amount of insoluble particles
   The amount of insoluble whey protein particles having a particles size in the range of 1
   10 micron (effectively encompassing the size range 0.5-10.49 micron) of a denatured
10 whey protein composition is determined using the following procedure:
   1. Make a 5% (w/w in water) suspension of the sample to be tested.
   2. Let the resulting suspension rehydrate for one hour with gentle agitation (stirring).
15
   3. Homogenize the suspension at 100 bar.
   4. Centrifuge a first portion of the suspension at 15000 g for 5 minutes.
20 5. Collect the resulting supernatant and analyse for total protein (true protein). The
   amount of total protein of the supernatant is referred to as "A".
   6. Analyse a second portion of the suspension (not subjected to centrifugation) for total
   protein (true protein). The amount of total protein of the suspension is referred to as
25 "B".
   7. Subject a third portion of the suspension to particle size distribution analysis
   by static light scattering and determine the percentage by volume of the particles that
   has a particle size >10 micron, this percentage is referred to "C".
30
   8. Determine the amount (% w/w relative to total protein) of insoluble whey protein
   particles having a particle size the range of 1-10 micron as:
   P1 .10 = (((B - A)/B)* 100%)-C
35 9. Repeate steps 4-5, but centrifuging at 3000 g for 5 minutes instead of 15000 g. (only
   the largest part of the particles will be removed). The total protein of the supernatant of
   step 9 is referred to as "D".
                                                 59

   10. Determine the amount (% w/w relative to total protein) of insoluble whey protein
   particles having a particle size the range of 0.5-1.5 micron as:
   P1 = ((D-A)/ B)* 100%
 5
   The procedure is performed at approx. 15 degrees C using a refrigerated centrifuge 3
   30K from SIGMA Laborzentrifugen GmbH and 85 mL tubes (Order no. 15076), in which
   the 5% suspension is filled so that the total weight of tube and sample amounts to 96 g.
10 Particle size distribution analysis is performed using a Malvern Mastersizer (Micro Parti
   cle Sizer, Malvern Instruments Ltd., Worcestershire, UK).
   Parameters: Particle refractive index 1.52 (real part), 0.1 (imaginary part) and disper
   sant refractive index 1.33 were used.
   Data analysis: The data was fitted using the Mie scattering model (residuals < 2%).
15
   Example 1.2: Determination of soluble CMP, alpha-lactalbumin, and beta-lactobulin
   The content of soluble CMP, alpha-lactalbumin, and beta-lactobulin was analyzed by size
   exclusion high performance liquid chromatography (SE-HPLC). A Waters 600 E Multisol
20 vent Delivery System, a Waters 700 Satellite Wisp Injector, and a Waters H90 Pro
   grammable Multiwavelength Detector (Waters, Milford, MA, USA) were used. The elution
   buffer was composed of 0.15 M Na2SO4, 0.09 M KH2PO4 and 0.01 M K2HP04. The flow
   rate was 0.8 mL min-1 and the temperature 20*C.
25 Twenty-four hours prior to analysis, suspensions of the denatured whey protein compo
   sitions were prepared by using a sodium phosphate buffer (0.02 M) to obtain a final
   protein content of 0.1% (w/v). In addition, standard solutions of alpha-lactalbumin
   (Sigma-Aldrich Chemie GmbH, Steinheim, Germany) and beta-lactoglobulin (Sigma
   Aldrich Chemie GmbH), and caseinomacropeptide at a concentration of 1 mg mL-1 were
30 prepared. Prior to injection, the solutions were stirred and filtered (0.22 micron). A 25
   microL sample was injected. The absorbance was recorded at 210 and 280 nm. For all
   the samples denatured whey protein compositions and the standards, the total protein
   content was determined according to Example 1.4.
35 Quantitative determination of the contents of native alpha-lactalbumin, beta
   lactoglobulin, and caseinomacropeptide was performed by comparing the peak areas
   obtained for the corresponding standard proteins with those of the samples.
   Example 1.3: Determination of viscosity
                                                 60

    The viscosity of liquid products was measured on a rheometer (Haake rheostress) with a
    bob/cup system.
    The measurement was performed at 5 degrees C (both the temperature of the liquid
  5 sample and the relevant parts of the rheometer had a temperature of 5 degrees C).
    Procedure:
    1. Sample preparation
10  Each sample is filled into bottles during processing and placed in the laboratory
    cooler (5*C) to temperate for 1 day.
    2. Setup
    Set up the program for measurement of the product on the Haake rheostress, see
15  method setup.
    Install the bob/cup system. Check that the temperature of the water bath for
    HAAKE rheostress is set at 1*C, if not adjust the temperature.
20  3. Measuring
    Only the sample that is to be analysed is removed from the cool storage, the
    sample bottle is gently turned upside down 3 times to homogenise the sample if it is
    phase separated during storage. Add 40 ml sample to the cup and start the data
    sampling programme. A double repetition is made.
25
    4. Cleaning
    When the analysis is finished, dismantle the bob/cup system and clean it with
    water and soap and afterwards with cold water to temperate the system before
    the next measurement. Wipe the bob/cup system and install it again for the next
30  sample.
    Results:
    The viscosity is presented in the unit centipoise (cP). Based on the cP-value read after
    90 sec. (t(seq)), an average of the double repetition is calculated. The higher the meas
35  ured cP values are, the higher the viscosity.
    Materials:
    For this procedure the following is required:
        -    Haake rheostress 1 rheometer
40      -     Bob: Z34 DIN 53019 series
                                                  61

       -    Cup: Z34 DIN53018 series probes
       -    Water bath Haake K20/Haake DC50
   Method setup:
 5 The parameters for the programme were as follows:
   Step 1: Measurement position
   Step 2: Controlled Stress of 1.00 Pa for 30 sec. at 5.00*C. Frequency of 1.000 Hz.
   2 data points are collected
   Step 3: Controlled Rate of 50.00 I/s for 120 sec. at 5.00*C. 30 data points are
10 collected
   Step 4: Lift apart
   Example 1.4: Determination of total protein
15 The total protein content (true protein) of a sample is determined by:
   1) Determining the total nitrogen of the sample following ISO 8968-1/21 IDF 020-1/2
   Milk - Determination of nitrogen content - Part 1/2: Determination of nitrogen content
   using the Kjeldahl method.
20
   2) Determining the non-protein nitrogen of the sample following ISO 8968-41 IDF 020-4
   Milk - Determination of nitrogen content - Part 4: Determination of non-protein-nitrogen
   content.
25 3) Calculating the total amount protein as  (mtotai nitrogen - mnon-protein-nitrogen)* 6.38.
   Example 1.5: Determination of the water content of a powder
   The water content of a food product is determined according to ISO 5537:2004 (Dried
30 milk - Determination of moisture content (Reference method)). NMKL is an abbreviation
   for "Nordisk Metodikkomite for Noringsm idler".
   Example 1.6: Determination of ash content
35 The ash content of a food product is determined according to NMKL 173:2005 "Ash,
   gravimetric determination in foods".
                                                62

   Example 1.7: Determination of the dry weight of a solution
   The dry-weight of a solution may be determined according NMKL 110         2 nd Edition, 2005
   (Total solids (Water) - Gravimetric determination in milk and milk products). NMKL is an
 5 abbreviation for "Nordisk Metodikkomite for Noringsm idler".
   The water content of the solution can be calculated as 100% minus the relative amount
   of dry-matter (% w/w).
10 Example 1.8: Determination of the total amount of lactose
   The total amount of lactose is determined according to ISO 5765-2:2002 (IDF 79-2:
   2002) "Dried milk, dried ice-mixes and processed cheese - Determination of lactose
   content - Part 2: Enzymatic method utilizing the galactose moiety of the lactose".
15
   Example 1.9: Determination of the degree of denaturation
   The denaturation degree of the proteins of the denatured whey protein compositions
   was analyzed by size exclusion high performance liquid chromatography (SE-HPLC). A
20 Waters 600 E Multisolvent Delivery System, a Waters 700 Satellite Wisp Injector,
   and a Waters H90 Programmable Multiwavelength Detector (Waters, Milford, MA,
   USA) were used. The elution buffer was composed of 0.15 M Na2SO4, 0.09 M
   KH2PO4 and 0.01 M K2HP04. The flow rate was 0.8 mL min-1 and the temperature
   20*C.
25
   Twenty-four hours prior to analysis, suspensions of the denatured whey protein compo
   sitions were prepared by using a sodium phosphate buffer (0.02 M) to obtain a final
   protein content of 0.1% (w/v). In addition, standard solutions of alpha-lactalbumin
   (Sigma-Aldrich Chemie GmbH, Steinheim, Germany) and beta-lactoglobulin (Sigma
30 Aldrich Chemie GmbH), and caseinomacropeptide at a concentration of 1 mg mL-1 were
   prepared. Prior to injection, the solutions were stirred and filtered (0.22 micron). A 25
   microL sample was injected. The absorbance was recorded at 210 and 280 nm. For all
   the samples denatured whey protein compositions and the standards, the total protein
   content was determined according to Example 1.4
35
   A quantitative analysis of the native whey protein content was performed by comparing
   the peak areas obtained for the corresponding standard proteins with those of the sam
   ples. Afterwards, the denatured whey protein content of the denatured whey protein
   compositions were calculated by considering the total protein content of the samples
                                                63

   and their quantified native protein. The degree of denaturation was calculated as (wtota
   protein - Wsolutble protein)/Wtotal protein * 100%, wherein total protein is the weight of total protein
   and    Wsolutble protein is the weight of soluble protein.
 5
   Example 2: Production of a high protein denatured whey protein composition
   A denatured whey protein composition was prepared using the following method:
10 Solution:
   An aqueous solution containing sweet whey protein concentrate was prepared by dis
   solving the whey protein concentrate in water to obtain a dry-matter content of 16%
   and adjusting the pH to 6.4.
15 Denaturation and microparticulation:
   Denaturation and microparticulation was performed in a 6+ 6 Scraped Surface Heat Ex
   changer (SSHE), APV Shear Agglomerator, from APV/SPX, Denmark.
   After passage through a holding cell (60 sec) the product was cooled down in a SSHE
20 followed by a plate heat exchanger (PHE) to 10*C.
   During the heat treatment (80 degrees C for a duration of 10 minutes) the protein was
   denaturated and particles in the size 0.5-10 micron were formed.
25 The product suspension was pumped to a storage tank, and some of it was subsequent
   ly dried to a powder by means of spray-drying.
   The aqueous whey protein solution and the suspension obtained from the heat denatur
   ation/microparticulation were subsequently characterised with respect to content of
30 native dry-matter, total protein, total fat, total lactose, ash content, content of native
   beta-lactoglobulin, content of native alpha-lactalbumin, content of native CMP, degree
   of microparticulation, particle size, and pH.
35 Results
   The results of the characterisation of the solution of sweet WPC and the suspension of
   denatured, microparticulated whey protein are presented in Table 1Tabe-1. As can be
   seen, significant amounts of native beta-lactoglobulin and alpha-lactalbumin of the solu
                                                          64

   tion has been denatured (approx. 88% beta-lactoglobulin and approx. 69% alpha
   lactalbumin), whereas the level of CMP seems to be nearly the same in the suspension
   and in the solution.
 5 Table 1 Comparison of the composition of the WPC solution and the product suspension.
                                 Solution of sweet WPC            Product suspension
    % Dry matter                        Approx. 16                     Approx. 16
    % Total protein                          13.0                          13.0
    % Fat                                    0.90                          0.90
    % Lactose                                0.45                          0.45
    % Ash                                    0.55                          0.55
    % Native beta
    lactoglobulin relative                   55.0                           6.5
    to total protein
    % Native alpha
    lactalbumin relative to                  18.0                           5.5
    total protein
    % native CMP of total                    13.5                          13.5
    protein
    Particle degree*                         < 10                      Approx. 67
    Particle size                      0.1-1 micron                   0.5-10 micron
    pH                                        6.4                           6.4
   *Content of insoluble whey protein particles in the size range 0.5-10 micron (% w/w total protein)
   The non-protein-nitrogen content of the product suspension was 0.15% (w/w).
10 The spray-dried denatured whey protein composition had a solid content of dry-matter
   content of approx. 95%.
   Example 3: Development of an high protein, fruit-flavours beverage
15 The present inventors have made several attempts to develop a high protein beverage
   containing a mixture of fruit juice and a substantial amount of a denatured whey protein
   composition containing 45% protein (microparticulated WPC45) (w/w) but found it chal
   lenging to develope a product having an acceptable taste and acceptable textural prop
   erties.
20
   The inventors found that surprisingly the problem was solved by replacing the micropar
   ticulated WPC45 (protein ingredient A) with a denatured whey protein composition con
   taining 82% protein (similar to that product in Example 1 - referred to as protein ingre
   dient B) and by carefully controlling the pH of the beverage.
25
                                                        65

   The following experiments were set up to document the findings of the inventors.
   Six samples of high protein beverage containing 8.0% (w/w) protein using two alterna
   tive protein sources and five different pH'es. Each sample was produced by mixing 0.36
 5 kg protein ingredient A or 0.20 kg protein ingredient B, 80 g sucrose, sufficient citric
   acid, and water to obtain a 1.20 kg premix of a predefined pH (pH 6.0, 5.5, 5.0, 4.5 or
   4.0). The premix was allowed to rest for % hour to give the protein ingredients an op
   portunity to rehydrate before continuing the process. Next, the premix was mixed with
   0.80 kg commercial apple juice containing 10% (w/w) sugar (Rynkeby, Denmark), and
10 subsequently pasteurised at 90 degrees C for 1 minute and then subjected to two-stage
   homogenisation at 150 bar and 50 bar respectively. Finally the homogenized beverage
   was cooled to 5 degrees C and filled into plastic bottles (267 mL).
   The protein ingredient and final pH of the six samples are shown in Table 2Tb4e-2-.
15
   Table 2 Six samples of high protein fruit beverage including their protein ingredient and
   their target pH
                                  Protein
                                  content
      Sample       Ingredient    (%w/w)     pH
          1             A            8      4,5
          2             B            8        6
          3             B            8      5,5
         4              B            8        5
          5             B            8      4,5
          6             B            8        4
20 Characterisation
   The six samples were characterised by sensory testing and scored on a scale of 1 (low
   est) - 15 (highest) with respect to their:
               - Perceived oral viscosity
25             - Fruitiness
               - Level of off-flavours
   The sensory testing was performed by a panel of 5 persons having received training in
   sensory testing.
                                                66

   The relationship between the pH of the beverage sample and the perceived fruitiness of
   the sample is illustrated in Fig. 1. It is clear that the fruitiness increases dramatically
   when reducing the pH from pH 5.0 to pH 4.5. The sensory testing therefore verified the
 5 inventors initial finding that careful control of pH is important to the taste and flavour of
   a high protein fruit-flavoured drink.
   The present experiments also allowed for a simple comparison of the fruit-flavoured
   beverages containing the Ingredient A (45% protein), which was used initially, and In
10 gredient B (82% protein) by comparing the samples 1 and 5.
   The beverage of sample 1 (with Ingredient A, pH 4.5) had a significantly higher per
   ceived viscosity than the beverage of sample 5 (with Ingredient B, pH 4.5) and was
   therefore perceived less drinkable. Furthermore, the beverage of sample 5 was per
15 ceived as having a higher degree of freshness than the beverage of sample 1.
   Conclusion
   It has been documented that careful pH control of high protein, fruit-flavoured beverag
20 es is important to obtain a product with a good taste, e.g. a high level of fruitiness, and
   particularly that the pH of the final product should be lower than pH 5.0. It has further
   more been shown that it is advantageous to use a high protein denatured whey compo
   sition as protein source (such as Ingredient B) instead of a denatured whey composition
   having a lower content of protein, and it is believed that the relatively high total pro
25 tein:ash content weight ratio of Ingredient B plays an important role (the total pro
   tein:ash content weight ratio of Ingredient B is approximately).
   1.1    Example 4 Production of high protein fruit preparations based on whole
30        strawberries
   Samples of high protein fruit preparations based on whole strawberries can be prepared
   as described below (samples no. 1-2 are for reference; samples 3-12 are according to
   the invention).
35
   1.1.1    Ingredients:
                                               Fruit preparation sample no.
   Ingredient (g)26
                        1           2             3            4            5         6
                                                   67

   Pectin               0           0              0            2            5           10
   Blended strawberry   350         350            350          350          350         350
   Sucrose              300         275            275          275          275         275
   Water                300         300            300          300          300         300
   0.5 M Citric acid    to target   to target      to target    to target    to target   to target
   solution             pH          pH             pH           pH           pH          pH
   Protein:
      Gelatin powder    100
      WPC80 powder                  125
      mpWPC powder                                 125           125         125         125
   Total protein of the
   final fruit prepara- 10%         10%            10%           10%         10%         10%
   tion (w/w)')
    ) Due to evaporation of water during the process, each sample batch yields approx.
   1 .00 kg high protein fruit preparation.
                                                Fruit preparation sample no.
   Ingredient (g)
                              7           8              9            10           11          12
   Pectin                     0           2               5            0            2           5
   Blended strawberry        350         350            350          350          350         350
   Sucrose                   275         275            275          275          275         275
   Water                     300         300            300          300          300         300
   0.5 M Citric acid      to target   to target      to target    to target    to target   to target
   solution                  pH          pH              pH           pH           pH          pH
   Protein:
      Gelatin powder
      WPC80 powder
      mpWPC powder           100         100            100          150          150         150
   Total protein of the
   final fruit prepara-      8%          8%             8%           12%          12%         12%
   tion (w/w)   1
 5 0  Due to evaporation of water during the process, each sample batch yields approx.
   1 .00 kg high protein fruit preparation.
   Pectin:
10 The used pectin is a high methylester pectin.
   Blended strawberry:
   The blended strawberries are obtained by thawing a batch of freshly frozen strawberries
   and blending the thawed strawberries in a food processor, thereby obtaining a puree
15 like strawberry composition.
                                                     68

   WPC80 powder:
   The WPC80 powder is based on ultra/dia-filtered sweet whey and contains approx. 80%
   native whey protein and substantially no microparticulated whey protein particles. The
   WPC80 powder furthermore comprises approx. 3% lactose and approx. 6% fat.
 5
   mpWPC powder:
   The mpWPC powder is produces according to Example 2 and has the same specifications
   except for a total protein content of 80% (w/w).
10 1.1.2     Process:
   The protein powder is mixed into the water in a vessel and allowed to hydrate for 1 hour
   at 10 degrees C. The protein mixture is heated to 60 degrees C, and if pectin is used, it
   is added to and dissolved in the heated protein mixture.
15 The blended strawberry and sucrose is mixed and heated to 90 degrees C in a separate
   vessel, and subsequently mixed with the heated protein mixture and the pH of the com
   bined mixture is adjusted to 3.8 using 0.5 M citric acid solution. The combined mixture
   is finally heated to 80 degrees C, held at that temperature for 2 minutes and hot-filled
   into sterile 200 mL containers.
20
   Due to evaporation of water during the process, each sample batch yields approx. 1.00
   kg high protein fruit preparation.
25 1.1.3     Conclusion:
   The present inventors have experimented with various protein types such as gelatin and
   native whey protein and have found that these form a firm, non-pumpable gel when
   heated at acidic pH. However, they have found that microparticulated protein, such as
30 microparticulated whey protein, is less prone to gel formation when heat-treated at
   acidic pH and have found that such microparticulated protein is well suited for the pro
   duction of high protein fruit preparations.
   This example demonstrates that a pumpable, high protein fruit preparation can be pro
35 duced using microparticulated protein.
   The example furthermore demonstrates that pumpable, high protein fruit preparations
   can be produced both with and without carbohydrate thickening agents such as pectins.
                                                69

   1.2      Example 5 Production of high protein fruit preparations based on straw
            berry juice concentrate
 5 Samples of high protein fruit preparations based on strawberry juice concentrate can be
   prepared as described below.
   1.2.1      Ingredients:
                                               Fruit preparation sample no.
   Ingredient (g)
                               13         14           15           16          17        18
   Pectin                       0         2             0            2           0         2
   Strawberry juice
                               100       100          100          100         100       100
   concentrate
   Aspartame                   0.9       0.9           0.9         0.9         0.9       0.9
   Sucrose                     100       100          100          100         100       100
   Water                      675       675           650          650         600       600
   0.5 M Citric acid       to target to target     to target    to target   to target to target
   solution                    pH        pH            pH           pH          pH        pH
   Protein:
     mpWPC powder              175       175          200          200         250       250
   Total protein of the
   final fruit prepara-       14%       14%           16%         16%         20%       20%
   tion (w/w)
10
                                               Fruit preparation sample no.
   Ingredient (g)
                          19             20            21           22          23        24
   Pectin                0                2             0            2           0         2
   Strawberry juice
                          100            100          100          100         100       100
   concentrate
   Aspartame             0.9             0.9           0.9         0.9         0.9       0.9
   Sucrose                100            100          100          100         100       100
   Water                 750            750           725          725         700       700
   0.5 M Citric acid     to target   to target     to target    to target   to target to target
   solution              pH              pH            pH           pH          pH        pH
   Protein:
     mpWPC powder         100            100          125          125         150       150
   Total protein of the
   final fruit prepara-  8%              8%           10%         10%          12%       12%
   tion (w/w)
                                                   70

   Pectin:
   The used pectin is a high methylester pectin.
 5
   Strawberry juice concentrate:
   The used strawberry juice concentrate is Strawberry Juice Concentrate, Brix 65 (Milne
   Fruit Products, USA)
10 mpWPC powder:
   The mpWPC powder is produced according to Example 2 and has the same specifica
   tions except for a total protein content of 80% (w/w).
   1.2.2    Process:
15 The protein powder is dispersed into the water in a vessel and allowed to hydrate for 1
   hour at 10 degrees C. The protein mixture is heated to 60 degrees C, and if pectin is
   used, it is added to and dissolved in the heated protein mixture.
   The strawberry juice concentrate, sucrose and aspartame is mixed and heated to 90
20 degrees C in separate vessel, and subsequently mixed with the heated protein mixture
   and the pH of the combined mixture is adjusted to 3.8 using 0.5 M citric acid solution.
   The combined mixture is finally heated to 80 degrees C, held at that temperature for 2
   minutes and hot-filled into sterile 200 mL containers.
25 Due to evaporation of water during the process, each sample batch yields approx. 1.00
   kg high protein fruit preparation.
   1.2.3    Conclusion:
   The present inventors have found that it is advantageous to use fruit juice concentrates
30 to obtain fruit preparations having very high protein contents.
   The inventors have furthermore found that by replacing some of the bulk sweetener
   (sugar and/or sugar alcohol) with high intensity sweetener, an improved, less viscous
   fruit preparation is obtained. This approach may be used to introduce more protein into
35 the fruit and/or vegetable preparation without destroying the pumpability or organolep
   tic properties of the preparation.
                                                 71

   1.3    Example 6 Preparation of high protein, fruit flavoured stirred yoghurt
   Samples of high protein, fruit-flavoured stirred yoghurt can be produced in the following
   manner.
 5
   1.3.1   Preparation of the white base
   The white base for the stirred yoghurt is produced with the following ingredients:
   I ngredient                        Content
                                     % (w/ w)
   Denatured whey protein               3.80
   powder of Example 1
   (total protein: 82%)
   Milk protein concentrate             6.80
   (total protein: 77%)
   Skimmed milk                        89.40
10
   Nutritional composition of the white base:
   Component                          Content
                                     % (w/ w)
   Protein                             10.05
   Fat                                  0.44
   Carbohydrates                        6.51
   Total solids                        18.38
   Process for preparing the white base:
15 The powders are mixed with the liquid ingredients and allowed to hydrate for 1 hour at
   5*C. Subsequently, the resulting suspension is preheated to 65*C and homogenized in
   two steps (first at 200 bar and subsequently at 50 bar). After the homogenisation, the
   suspension is pasteurised at 90*C for 5 min, cooled and incubated with 0.02% lactic
   acid starter culture (YC-183 from Chr. Hansen) and allowed to incubate at 42*C until
20 the pH reaches pH 4.5. The incubated product is subjected to smoothing at 9 bar using
   back pressure and finally cooled and stored at 5 degrees C.
   1.3.2   Adding the fruit preparation
                                                72

   The cooled white base is mixed with the fruit preparations of Examples 4 and 5 in the
   following proportions:
                                                 Stirred yoghurt samples
                               A            B            C         D           E          F
   White base (g)             620         770          620       770         620        770
   Fruit preparation           10          10            4         4           8          8
   sample no.
   Fruit preparation (g)      380         230          380       230         380        230
   Total protein
   of the resulting         10.8%        10.5%       10.0%     10.0%        9.3%       9.6%
   stirred yoghurt
 5
                                                 Stirred yoghurt samples
                               G            H            I         J           K          L
   White base (g)             620         770          620       770         620        770
   Fruit preparation           13          13           15        15          17         17
   sample no.
   Fruit preparation (g)      380         230          380       230         380        230
   Total protein
   of the resulting          11.6%        11.0%       12.3%     11.4%        13.8%     12.3%
   stirred yoghurt
   The resulting high protein, fruit-flavour stirred yoghurt is filled in sterile 200 mL yoghurt
   beakers and sealed.
10 1.3.3   Conclusion
   The example demonstrates that it is possible to prepare a high protein, fruit-flavoured
   stirred yoghurt without diluting the protein content of the white yoghurt base. The ex
   ample furthermore demonstrates that the high protein fruit preparation can be used to
15 give the final yoghurt product a higher protein content than that of the white base.
   This opens up for a new approach for producing high protein, fruit flavoured dairy prod
   ucts, which involves providing a conventional dairy base (e.g. a conventional yoghurt
   white base) and adding a high protein, fruit preparation to the conventional dairy white
20 base to produce a dairy product with a higher level of protein compared to the conven
   tional dairy product.
                                                  73

   1.4    Example 7 Preparation of a high protein, fruit flavoured drinking yoghurt
 5 Samples of high protein, fruit-flavoured drinking yoghurt can be produced in the follow
   ing manner.
   1.4.1   Preparation of the white base
10 The white base for the drinking yoghurt is produced with the following ingredients:
   I ngredient                       Content
                                     % (w/ w)
   Denatured whey protein               8.64
   powder of Example 1
   (total protein: 82%)
   Sucrose                              5.00
   Cream, 38% fat                       3.10
   Skimmed milk                        83.26
   Nutritional composition of the white base:
   Composition                        Content
                                     % (w/ w)
   Protein                              10.00
   Fat                                   1.79
   Carbohydrates                         9.39
   Total solids                        22.28
15 Process for preparing the white base:
   The powders are mixed with the liquid ingredients and allowed to hydrate for 1 hour at
   5*C. Subsequently, the resulting suspension is preheated to 65*C and homogenized in
   two steps (first at 200 bar and subsequently at 50 bar). After the homogenisation, the
20 suspension is pasteurised at 90*C for 5 min, cooled and incubated with 0.02% lactic
   acid starter culture (YC-183 from Chr. Hansen) and allowed to incubate at 42*C until
   the pH reaches pH 4.5. The incubated product is subjected to smoothing at 9 bar using
   back pressure and finally cooled and stored at 5 degrees C.
25
                                                74

   1.4.2   Adding the fruit preparation
   The cooled white base is mixed with fruit preparations of Examples 5 in the following
   proportions:
 5
                                               Drinking yoghurt samples
                                M          N          0          P        Q             R
   Amount of white             620        770        620       770       620          770
   base for drinking
   yoghurt (g)
   Fruit preparation
                                19         19        21         21        15           15
   sample no.
   Amount of fruit
                              38%         23%       38%       23%       38%          23%
   preparation (g)
   Total protein
   of the resulting             9.3%       9.6%     10.0%     10.0%     12.3%        11.4%
   drinking yoghurt
   The resulting high protein, fruit-flavour drinking yoghurt samples are filled in sterile 200
   mL bottles and sealed.
10
   1.4.3    Conclusion
   This example demonstrates that it is possible to prepare a high protein, fruit-flavoured
   drinking yoghurt without dilution the protein content of the white drinking yoghurt base.
15 The example furthermore demonstrates that the high protein fruit preparation can be
   used to give the final drinking yoghurt product a higher protein content than that of the
   drinking yoghurt white base.
   As discussed above, this opens up for a new approach for producing high protein, fruit
20 flavoured dairy products, which involves providing a normal acidified dairy base (e.g. a
   normal yoghurt white base) and adding a high protein, fruit preparation to the normal
   acidified white base.
   1.5    Example 8 Preparation of a high protein, fruit flavoured set yoghurt
25
   Set-style high protein, fruit-flavoured yoghurts can be prepared in the following way:
                                                 75

    Yoghurt sample S:
    66 g high protein fruit preparation (Sample 11) is filled into an empty 200 mL yoghurt
    beaker and allowed to settle. 134 g inoculated, but non-acidified, white base from Ex
    ample 6 is filled on top of the high protein fruit preparation and the beaker is sealed.
  5 The beaker is stored at 42 degrees C for 10 hours during which the inoculated white
    base is acidified to approx. pH 4.6 which causes the white base to set (form a gel).
    The beaker and its content is subsequently cooled to 5 degrees C and stored at this
    temperature.
10
    The set yoghurt product of sample S has a total protein content of 10.7%.
    Yoghurt sample T:
15  66 g high protein fruit preparation (Sample 16) is filled into an empty 200 mL yoghurt
    beaker and allowed to settle. 134 g inoculated, but non-acidified, white base from Ex
    ample 6 is filled on top of the high protein fruit preparation and the beaker is sealed.
    The beaker is stored at 42 degrees C for 10 hours during which the inoculated white
    base is acidified to approx. pH 4.6 which causes the white base to set (form a gel).
20
    The beaker and its content is subsequently cooled to 5 degrees C and stored at this
    temperature.
    The set yoghurt product of sample T has a total protein content of 12.0%.
25
    EMBODI MENTS
    The following specific embodiments are disclosed:
    1. A high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage containing:
30  - water,
    - a sweetener
    - a total amount of protein of at least 4% (w/w)
    - a total amount of the solids of a denatured whey protein composition of at least 2%
    (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage, the denatured whey protein composi
35  tion containing:
                    - a total amount of protein of at least 60% (w/w) on a dry weight basis
                    relative to the total weight of the denatured whey protein composition,
                    - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1
                    10 micron, where the amount of said insoluble whey protein particles is in
                                                    76

                    the range of 50-100% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
                    denatured whey protein composition,
    - a fruit flavouring agent, and
    - a food acid,
  5 said beverage having a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8.
    2. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to embodiment 1, wherein the
    denatured whey protein composition is:
    - a powder, or
10  - an aqueous suspension.
    3. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to embodiment 1 or 2, wherein
    the total protein : ash content weight ratio of the denatured whey protein composition is
    at least 15, preferably at least 20, and even more preferably at least 30, such at least
15  40 or at least 50.
    4. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding em
    bodiments, wherein the total amount of protein of the denatured whey protein composi
    tion is at least 70% (w/w) on a dry-matter basis, preferably at least 75% (w/w) and
20  even more preferably at least 80% (w/w) in a dry weight basis.
    5. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding em
    bodiments, wherein the total amount of protein is at least 5% (w/w), preferably at least
    6%   (w/w), and even more preferably at least 8% (w/w).
25
    6. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding em
    bodiments, wherein the beverage has been heat-treated.
    7. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding em
30  bodiments, wherein the sweetener comprises a sugar, a sugar alcohol and/or a high
    intensity sweetener.
    8. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding em
    bodiments, wherein the fruit flavouring agent is selected from orange flavour, lemon
35  flavour, lime flavour, pine apple flavour, apple flavour, pear flavour, strawberry flavour,
    cherry flavour, cranberry flavour, grape fruit flavour.
    9. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding em
    bodiments, wherein the fruit flavouring agent also contains food acid.
40
                                                 77

    10. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, wherein substantially all the food acid of the beverage has been provided
    by the fruit flavouring agent.
  5 11. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, wherein food acid is selected from the group consisting of citric acid,
    malic acid, tartaric acid, acetic acid, benzoic acid, butyric acid, lactic acid, fumaric acid,
    succinic acid, ascorbic acid, adipic acid, phosphoric acid, and mixtures thereof.
10  12. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, containing a total amount of food acid of at least 0.1% (w/w).
    13. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, wherein the fruit flavouring agent comprises, or even consists of, a fruit
15  juice or a fruit juice concentrate.
    14. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, containing less than 5% casein relative to the total amount of protein.
20  15. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, containing at most 106 viable bacteria per mL.
    16. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, having a viscosity in the range of 3-400 cP.
25
    17. The high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, having a total ash content of at most 2% (w/w).
    18. A method of producing a high protein, fruit-flavoured beverage according to any one
30  of the preceding embodiments, the method comprising:
                    a) forming a mixture comprising:
                    - water,
                    - sweetener,
                    - a total amount of protein of at least 4% (w/w)
35                  - a total amount of solids of a denatured whey protein composition of at
                    least 2% (w/w) relative to the total weight of the beverage, the denatured
                   whey protein composition containing:
                                  - a total amount of protein of at least 60% (w/w) relative to
                                  the total weight of the partly denatured whey protein com
40                                position,
                                                   78

                                  - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the
                                  range of 1-10 micron, where the amount of said insoluble
                                  whey protein particles is in the range of 50-100% (w/w) rel
                                  ative to the total amount of the denatured whey protein
  5                               com position,
                   - a fruit flavouring agent, and
                   - food acid
                   b) optionally, if the pH of mixture is higher than pH 4.8, reducing the pH
10                 of mixture to a pH in the range of 3.0-4.8 by addition of a food acid, and
                   c) packaging the mixture,
    wherein:
15                 i) the mixture is heat-treated prior, during or after packaging, or
                   ii) the mixture is made of one or more heat-treated ingredients.
    19. A heat-treated, high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation suitable for the pro
20  duction of fruit- and/or vegetable-flavour yoghurt, the fruit and/or vegetable prepara
    tion comprising:
    - a fruit and/or vegetable material in an amount of at least 10% (w/w)
    - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an
    amount of at least 2% (w/w),
25  the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a total solids content in the range of 15
    80% (w/w).
    20. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to embodiment 19, comprising at
    least 20% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material, preferably at least 30% (w/w) fruit
30  and/or vegetable material, and even more preferably at least 40% (w/w) fruit and/or
    vegetable material, such as at least 50% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material.
    21. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to embodiment 19 or 20, compris
    ing in the range of 10-90% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material, preferably in the
35  range of 20-70% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material, and even more preferably in
    the range of 30-60% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material.
    22. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
    19-21, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material is whole fruit.
40
                                                    79

   23. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
   19-22, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material is processed fruit.
   24. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
 5 19-23, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material is a fruit-favouring agent.
   25. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
   19-24, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material contains two or more components
   selected from whole fruit, processed fruit, a fruit-favouring agent or a combination
10 thereof.
   26. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
   19-25, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material contains a single type of fruit.
15
   27. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
   19-25, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material contains at least two different types
   of fruit.
20 28. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
   19-27, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material has a total amount of non-soluble
   fruit and/or vegetable solids of at most 30% (w/w dry weight), for example at most
   20%, such as at most 10%, e.g. at most 5%.
25 29. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
   19-28, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material has a total amount of non-soluble
   fruit and/or vegetable solids of at most 1% (w/w dry weight).
   30. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
30 19-29, comprising a sweetener.
   31. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to embodiment 30, wherein the
   sweetener comprises a carbohydrate sweetener, a sugar alcohol, and/or a high intensity
   sweetener.
35
   32. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to embodiment 30 or 31, wherein
   the total amount of carbohydrate sweetener and a sugar alcohol is in the range 5-70%
   (w/w).
                                                80

   33. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
   30-31, wherein the total amount of carbohydrate sweetener and a sugar alcohol is in
   the range 0.01-4% (w/w).
 5 34. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
   19-33, furthermore comprising a thickening agent.
   35. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to embodiment 34, wherein the
   thickening agent comprises a carbohydrate-based thickening agent or a protein-based
10 thickening agent.
   36. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to embodiment 34 or 35, wherein
   the total amount carbohydrate-based thickening agent is at most 5% (w/w), preferably
   at most 2% (w/w), even more preferably at most 1% (w/w), such as e.g at most 0.5%
15 (w/w).
   37. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
   30-32, wherein the total amount carbohydrate-based thickening agent is in the range of
   0.01-5% (w/w), e.g. in the range of 0.02-2% (w/w), such as in the range of 0.05-1%
20 (w/w), such as e.g. in the range of 0.1-0.5% (w/w).
   38. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
   30-33, wherein the total amount protein-based thickening agent is at most 5% (w/w),
   preferably at most 2% (w/w), even more preferably at most 1% (w/w), such as e.g at
25 most 0.5% (w/w).
   39. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments
   30-34, wherein the total amount protein-based thickening agent is in the range of 0.01
   5% (w/w), e.g. in the range of 0.02-2% (w/w), such as in the range of 0.05-1% (w/w),
30 such as e.g. in the range of 0.1-0.5% (w/w).
   40. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding em
   bodiments having a pH in the range of 3.0-5.0, preferably in the range of 3.2-4.8 and
   even more preferably in the range of 3.4-4.6.
35
   41. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding em
   bodiments, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable preparation contains one or more food
   acids selected from the group consisting of citric acid, malic acid, tartaric acid, acetic
   acid, benzoic acid, butyric acid, lactic acid, fumaric acid, succinic acid, ascorbic acid,
40 adipic acid, phosphoric acid, and mixtures thereof.
                                                  81

    42. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, having a viscosity in the range of 5-4000 cP, 5-2000 cP, e.g. 10-1000 cP,
    such as for example 20-500 cPor e.g. 10-300 cP.
  5
    43. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, having a viscosity in the range of 500-4000 cP, e.g. 800-3500 cP, such
    as for example 1000-3000 cPor e.g. 1500-3500 cP.
10  44. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, having a viscosity in the range of 10-3500 cP, e.g. 20-3000 cP, such as
    for example 40-2000 cPor e.g. 50-1500 cP.
    45. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
15  embodiments, comprising insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range
    of 1-10 micron in an amount of at least 4% (w/w), preferably at least 6% (w/w), and
    even more preferably at least 8% (w/w).
    46. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
20  embodiments, comprising insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range
    of 1-10 micron in an amount in the range of 2-30% (w/w), preferably in the range of 4
    25% (w/w), and even more preferably in the range of 6-20% (w/w), such as e.g. in the
    range of 8-18% (w/w).
25
    47. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments wherein insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1
    10 micron comprise or even consist of a insoluble protein particles selected from the
    group consisting of denatured whey protein, denatured egg white protein, denatured
30  pea protein, and denatured soy protein.
    48. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, wherein the insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range
    of 1-10 micron comprise or even consist of denatured egg white protein.
35
    49. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
    embodiments, wherein the insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range
    of 1-10 micron comprise or even consist of denatured whey protein.
                                               82

   50. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
   embodiments, furthermore comprising undenatured protein, e.g. undenatured whey
   protein.
 5 51. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to embodiment 50, wherein the
   weight ratio between undenatured protein and insoluble protein particles is at most 1:1,
   preferably at most 1:2 and even more preferably at most 1:4, such as at most 1:10.
   52. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
10 embodiments wherein the insoluble protein particles are provided by a the denatured
   whey protein composition containing:
                 - a total amount of protein of at least 60% (w/w) on a dry weight basis
                 relative to the total weight of the denatured whey protein composition,
                 - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1
15               10 micron, where the amount of said insoluble whey protein particles is in
                 the range of 50-100% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
                 denatured whey protein composition.
20 53. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
   embodiments, having a total amount of protein in of at least 2% (w/w), preferably at
   least 6% (w/w), and even more preferably at least 8% (w/w).
   54. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
25 embodiments, having a total amount of protein in the range of 2-30% (w/w), preferably
   in the range of 4-25% (w/w), and even more preferably in the range of 6-20% (w/w),
   such as e.g. in the range of 8-18% (w/w).
30 55. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
   embodiments, having a total solids content in the range of 15-60% (w/w), for example
   20-55% (w/w), such as e.g. 25-50% (w/w).
   56. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
35 embodiments, having a total solids content in the range of 40-80% (w/w), for example
   45-75% (w/w), such as e.g. 50-70% (w/w).
   57. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
   embodiments, having a total solids content in the range of 20-70% (w/w), for example
40 30-60% (w/w), such as e.g. 35-55% (w/w).
                                                 83

   58. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
   embodiments, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable preparation has a total amount of
   non-soluble fruit and/or vegetable solids of at most 10% (w/w relative to the total
 5 weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation), for example at most 5% (w/w relative
   to the total weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation), e.g. at most 1% (w/w
   relative to the total weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation).
   59. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding
10 embodiments, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material has a total amount of non
   soluble fruit and/or vegetable solids of 1% (w/w relative to the total weight of the fruit
   and/or vegetable preparation).
15 60. A method of producing a high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation the method
   comprising the steps of:
   1) providing:
   - a fruit and/or vegetable material,
20 - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron,
   - optionally, extra water, and
   - optionally, one or more additional ingredients,
   2) combining the fruit and/or vegetable material, the insoluble protein particles having a
25 particle size in the range of 1-10 micron, optionally extra water, and optionally also the
   one or more additional ingredients to obtain a mixture wherein the fruit and/or vegeta
   ble material is present in an amount of at least 10% (w/w) and wherein the insoluble
   whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron is present in an
   amount of at least 2% (w/w), and
30
   3) heat-treating the mixture of step 2) thereby obtaining the heat-treated high protein
   fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
35 61. The method according to embodiment 60, furthermore comprising a step 4) of
   packaging the heat-treated fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
   62. The method according to any one of the embodiments 60-61, wherein the source of
   the insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron is a dry
40 powder or a suspension.
                                                 84

    63. The method according to any one of the embodiments 60-62, wherein the source of
    the insoluble protein particles is provided in the form of powder, which is suspended in
    water before it is mixed with the fruit and/or vegetable material.
  5
    64. The method according to embodiment 63, wherein the suspension is allowed to hy
    drate for at least 20 minutes before it is mixed with the fruit and/or vegetable material,
    for example at least 30 minutes, such as at least 1 hour or at least 2 hours.
10  65. The method according to embodiment 63 or 64, wherein the suspension is subjected
    to homogenisation before it is mixed with the fruit and/or vegetable material.
    66. The method according to any one of the embodiments 63-65, wherein the suspen
    sion comprises at least 10% (w/w) insoluble protein particles having a particle size in
15  the range of 1-10 micron, preferably at least 15% (w/w), even more preferably at least
    20% (w/w) such as at least 25% (w/w).
    67. The method according to any one of the embodiments 63-66, wherein the suspen
    sion comprises in the range of 10-40% (w/w) insoluble protein particles having a parti
20  cle size in the range of 1-10 micron, preferably in the range of 15-35% (w/w), even
    more preferably in the range of 20-35% (w/w), such as in the range of 25-35% (w/w).
    68. A food product comprising the heat-treated, high protein fruit and/or vegetable
    preparation according to any one of the preceding embodiments.
25
    69. The food product according to embodiment 68 wherein the fruit and/or vegetable
    preparation is present in pure form.
    70. The food product according to embodiment 68 or 69, wherein the fruit and/or vege
30  table preparation is blended with other components of the of the food product.
    71. The food product according to any one of the embodiments 68-70, containing a por
    tion where the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is blended with other components of
    the of the food product and a portion where the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is
35  present in a pure form.
    72. The food product according to any one of the embodiments 68-71, comprising fruit
    and/or vegetable preparation in an amount of at least 2% (w/w), preferably at least
    10% (w/w), and even more preferably at least 20% (w/w).
40
                                                  85

    73. The food product according to any one of the embodiments 68-72, comprising fruit
    and/or vegetable preparation in an amount in the range of 2-80% (w/w), preferably in
    the range of 10-60% (w/w), and even more preferably in the range of 20-50% (w/w).
  5 74. A high protein acidified dairy product comprising at least 4% (w/w) protein, said
    high protein acidified dairy product comprising the heat-treated, high protein fruit
    and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the embodiments 1-59.
    75. The high protein acidified dairy product according to embodiment 74 wherein the
10  fruit and/or vegetable preparation is present in a separate part of the high protein acidi
    fied dairy product, said separate part contains only the fruit and/or vegetable prepara
    tion.
    76. The high protein acidified dairy product according to embodiment 74 or 75, wherein
15  the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is blended with other components of the of the
    high protein acidified dairy product.
    77. The high protein acidified dairy product according to any one of the embodiments
    74-76, wherein a portion of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is blended with other
20  components of the of the high protein acidified dairy product and a portion of the fruit
    and/or vegetable preparation is present in a separate part of the high protein acidified
    dairy product, said separate part contains only the fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
    78. The high protein acidified dairy product according to any one of the embodiments
25  74-77, comprising fruit and/or vegetable preparation in an amount of at least 2%
    (w/w), preferably at least 10% (w/w), and even more preferably at least 20% (w/w).
    79. The high protein acidified dairy product according to any one of the embodiments
    74-78, comprising fruit and/or vegetable preparation in an amount in the range of 2
30  80% (w/w), preferably in the range of 10-60% (w/w), and even more preferably in the
    range of 20-50% (w/w).
    80. A method of producing the food product according to any one of the embodiments
    68-79, the method comprising the steps of
35  - providing a fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the
    embodiments 19-59,
    - providing one or more additional ingredients, and
    - combining, and optionally also processing, the one or more additional ingredients and
    the fruit and/or vegetable preparation, thereby producing the food product.
40
                                                 86

    81. A method of producing a high protein acidified dairy product, the method comprising
    the steps of:
    a) providing a pasteurised dairy base
  5
    b) providing a heat-treated fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of
    the embodiments 19-59,
    c) contacting the pasteurised dairy base with a chemical or microbial acidifying agent,
10  thereby obtaining the pre-acidification mixture,
    and
    d-variant 1) packaging the fruit and/or vegetable preparation and the pre-acidification
15  mixture in the same container and allowing the pre-acidification mixture to acidify in the
    container, or
    d-variant 2) allowing the pre-acidification mixture to acidify, optionally processing the
    acidified mixture, and packaging a combination of the acidified mixture and heat-treated
20  fruit prep.
    82. The method according to embodiment 81, wherein the acidified food product is se
    lected from the group consisting of yoghurt, skyr, sour cream, sour buttermilk, cottage
25  cheese, quark, fromage frais, and an acidifed whey beverage .
    83. The method according to embodiment 81 or 82, wherein the acidified dairy product
    is a yoghurt.
30  84. The method according to any one of the embodiments 81-83, wherein the acidified
    dairy product has a pH in the range 3.0-5.5.
    85. The method according to any one of the embodiments 81-84, wherein the acidified
    dairy product has a total protein content of at least 4% (w/w), for example at least 6%
35  (w/w), such as at least 8% (w/w), e.g. at least 10% (w/w).
    86. The method according to any one of the embodiments 81-85, wherein the acidified
    dairy product has a total protein content in the range of 4-30% (w/w), for example in
    the range of 6-25%, such in the range of 8-20%, e.g. in the range of 10-18% (w/w).
40
                                                 87

    CLAI MS
    1. A heat-treated, high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation suitable for the pro
  5 duction of fruit- and/or vegetable-flavour yoghurt, the fruit and/or vegetable prepara
    tion comprising:
    - a fruit and/or vegetable material in an amount of at least 10% (w/w)
    - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron in an
    amount of at least 2% (w/w),
10  the fruit and/or vegetable preparation having a total solids content in the range of 15
    80% (w/w).
    2. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to claim 1, comprising at least 20%
    (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material, preferably at least 30% (w/w) fruit and/or vege
15  table material, and even more preferably at least 40% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable
    material, such as at least 50% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material.
    3. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to claim 1 or 2, comprising in the
    range of 10-90% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material, preferably in the range of 20
20  70% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material, and even more preferably in the range of
    30-60% (w/w) fruit and/or vegetable material.
    4. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-3, where
    in the fruit and/or vegetable material is whole fruit.
25
    5. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-4, where
    in the fruit and/or vegetable material is processed fruit.
    6. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-5, where
30  in the fruit and/or vegetable material is a fruit-favouring agent.
    7. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-6, where
    in the fruit and/or vegetable material contains two or more components selected from
    whole fruit, processed fruit, a fruit-favouring agent or a combination thereof.
35
    8. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-7, where
    in the fruit and/or vegetable material contains a single type of fruit.
                                                  88

   9. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-8, where
   in the fruit and/or vegetable material contains at least two different types of fruit.
   10. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-9,
 5 wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material has a total amount of non-soluble fruit
   and/or vegetable solids of at most 30% (w/w dry weight), for example at most 20%,
   such as at most 10%, e.g. at most 5%.
   11. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-10,
10 wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material has a total amount of non-soluble fruit
   and/or vegetable solids of at most 1% (w/w dry weight).
   12. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-11,
   comprising a sweetener.
15
   13. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to claim 12, wherein the sweetener
   comprises a carbohydrate sweetener, a sugar alcohol, and/or a high intensity sweeten
   er.
20 14. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the
   total amount of carbohydrate sweetener and a sugar alcohol is in the range 5-70%
   (w/w).
   15. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 12-13,
25 wherein the total amount of carbohydrate sweetener and a sugar alcohol is in the range
   0.01-4% (w/w).
   16. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-15, fur
   thermore comprising a thickening agent.
30
   17. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to claim 16, wherein the thickening
   agent comprises a carbohydrate-based thickening agent or a protein-based thickening
   agent.
35 18. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to claim 16 or 17, wherein the
   total amount carbohydrate-based thickening agent is at most 5% (w/w), preferably at
   most 2% (w/w), even more preferably at most 1% (w/w), such as e.g at most 0.5%
   (w/w).
                                                89

    19. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 12-14,
    wherein the total amount carbohydrate-based thickening agent is in the range of 0.01
    5% (w/w), e.g. in the range of 0.02-2% (w/w), such as in the range of 0.05-1% (w/w),
    such as e.g. in the range of 0.1-0.5% (w/w).
  5
    20. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 12-15,
    wherein the total amount protein-based thickening agent is at most 5% (w/w), prefera
    bly at most 2% (w/w), even more preferably at most 1% (w/w), such as e.g at most
    0.5% (w/w).
10
    21. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 12-16,
    wherein the total amount protein-based thickening agent is in the range of 0.01-5%
    (w/w), e.g. in the range of 0.02-2% (w/w), such as in the range of 0.05-1% (w/w),
    such as e.g. in the range of 0.1-0.5% (w/w).
15
    22. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims
    having a pH in the range of 3.0-5.0, preferably in the range of 3.2-4.8 and even more
    preferably in the range of 3.4-4.6.
20  23. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
    wherein the fruit and/or vegetable preparation contains one or more food acids selected
    from the group consisting of citric acid, malic acid, tartaric acid, acetic acid, benzoic
    acid, butyric acid, lactic acid, fumaric acid, succinic acid, ascorbic acid, adipic acid,
    phosphoric acid, and mixtures thereof.
25
    24. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
    having a viscosity in the range of 5-4000 cP, 5-2000 cP, e.g. 10-1000 cP, such as for
    example 20-500 cP or e.g. 10-300 cP.
30  25. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
    having a viscosity in the range of 500-4000 cP, e.g. 800-3500 cP, such as for example
    1000-3000 cP or e.g. 1500-3500 cP.
    26. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
35  having a viscosity in the range of 10-3500 cP, e.g. 20-3000 cP, such as for example 40
    2000 cP or e.g. 50-1500 cP.
    27. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
    comprising insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron
                                                   90

   in an amount of at least 4% (w/w), preferably at least 6% (w/w), and even more pref
   erably at least 8% (w/w).
   28. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
 5 comprising insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron
   in an amount in the range of 2-30% (w/w), preferably in the range of 4-25% (w/w),
   and even more preferably in the range of 6-20% (w/w), such as e.g. in the range of 8
   18% (w/w).
10
   29. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims
   wherein insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron
   comprise or even consist of a insoluble protein particles selected from the group consist
   ing of denatured whey protein, denatured egg white protein, denatured pea protein, and
15 denatured soy protein.
   30. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron
   comprise or even consist of denatured egg white protein.
20
   31. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron
   comprise or even consist of denatured whey protein.
25 32. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
   furthermore comprising undenatured protein, e.g. undenatured whey protein.
   33. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to claim 32, wherein the weight
   ratio between undenatured protein and insoluble protein particles is at most 1:1, pref
30 erably at most 1:2 and even more preferably at most 1:4, such as at most 1:10.
   34. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims
   wherein the insoluble protein particles are provided by a denatured whey protein com
   position containing:
35               - a total amount of protein of at least 60% (w/w) on a dry weight basis
                 relative to the total weight of the denatured whey protein composition,
                 - insoluble whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1
                 10 micron, where the amount of said insoluble whey protein particles is in
                 the range of 50-100% (w/w) relative to the total amount of protein of the
40               denatured whey protein composition.
                                                 91

    35. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
    having a total amount of protein in of at least 2% (w/w), preferably at least 6% (w/w),
  5 and even more preferably at least 8% (w/w).
    36. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
    having a total amount of protein in the range of 2-30% (w/w), preferably in the range
    of 4-25% (w/w), and even more preferably in the range of 6-20% (w/w), such as e.g.
10  in the range of 8-18% (w/w).
    37. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
    having a total solids content in the range of 15-60% (w/w), for example 20-55% (w/w),
15  such as e.g. 25-50% (w/w).
    38. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
    having a total solids content in the range of 40-80% (w/w), for example 45-75% (w/w),
    such as e.g. 50-70% (w/w).
20
    39. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
    having a total solids content in the range of 20-70% (w/w), for example 30-60% (w/w),
    such as e.g. 35-55% (w/w).
25  40. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
    wherein the fruit and/or vegetable preparation has a total amount of non-soluble fruit
    and/or vegetable solids of at most 10% (w/w relative to the total weight of the fruit
    and/or vegetable preparation), for example at most 5% (w/w relative to the total
    weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation), e.g. at most 1% (w/w relative to the
30  total weight of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation).
    41. The fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the preceding claims,
    wherein the fruit and/or vegetable material has a total amount of non-soluble fruit
    and/or vegetable solids of 1% (w/w relative to the total weight of the fruit and/or vege
35  table preparation).
    42. A method of producing a high protein fruit and/or vegetable preparation the method
    comprising the steps of:
40
                                                 92

    1) providing:
    - a fruit and/or vegetable material,
    - insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron,
    - optionally, extra water, and
  5 - optionally, one or more additional ingredients,
    2) combining the fruit and/or vegetable material, the insoluble protein particles having a
    particle size in the range of 1-10 micron, optionally extra water, and optionally also the
    one or more additional ingredients to obtain a mixture wherein the fruit and/or vegeta
10  ble material is present in an amount of at least 10% (w/w) and wherein the insoluble
    whey protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron is present in an
    amount of at least 2% (w/w), and
    3) heat-treating the mixture of step 2) thereby obtaining the heat-treated high protein
15  fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
    43. The method according to claim 42, furthermore comprising a step 4) of packaging
    the heat-treated fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
20
    44. The method according to any one of the claims 42-43, wherein the source of the
    insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range of 1-10 micron is a dry
    powder or a suspension.
25  45. The method according to any one of the claims 42-44, wherein the source of the
    insoluble protein particles is provided in the form of powder, which is suspended in wa
    ter before it is mixed with the fruit and/or vegetable material.
    46. The method according to claim 45, wherein the suspension is allowed to hydrate for
30  at least 20 minutes before it is mixed with the fruit and/or vegetable material, for ex
    ample at least 30 minutes, such as at least 1 hour or at least 2 hours.
    47. The method according to claim 45 or 46, wherein the suspension is subjected to
    homogenisation before it is mixed with the fruit and/or vegetable material.
35
    48. The method according to any one of the claims 45-47, wherein the suspension com
    prises at least 10% (w/w) insoluble protein particles having a particle size in the range
    of 1-10 micron, preferably at least 15% (w/w), even more preferably at least 20%
    (w/w) such as at least 25% (w/w).
40
                                                  93

   49. The method according to any one of the claims 45-48, wherein the suspension com
   prises in the range of 10-40% (w/w) insoluble protein particles having a particle size in
   the range of 1-10 micron, preferably in the range of 15-35% (w/w), even more prefera
   bly in the range of 20-35% (w/w), such as in the range of 25-35% (w/w).
 5
   50. A food product comprising the heat-treated, high protein fruit and/or vegetable
   preparation according to any one of the preceding claims.
   51. The food product according to claim 50 wherein the fruit and/or vegetable prepara
10 tion is present in pure form.
   52. The food product according to claim 50 or 51, wherein the fruit and/or vegetable
   preparation is blended with other components of the of the food product.
15 53. The food product according to any one of the claims 50-52, containing a portion
   where the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is blended with other components of the of
   the food product and a portion where the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is present
   in a pure form.
20 54. The food product according to any one of the claims 50-53, comprising fruit and/or
   vegetable preparation in an amount of at least 2% (w/w), preferably at least 10%
   (w/w), and even more preferably at least 20% (w/w).
   55. The food product according to any one of the claims 50-54, comprising fruit and/or
25 vegetable preparation in an amount in the range of 2-80% (w/w), preferably in the
   range of 10-60% (w/w), and even more preferably in the range of 20-50% (w/w).
   56. A high protein acidified dairy product comprising at least 4% (w/w) protein, said
   high protein acidified dairy product comprising the heat-treated, high protein fruit
30 and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-41.
   57. The high protein acidified dairy product according to claim 56 wherein the fruit
   and/or vegetable preparation is present in a separate part of the high protein acidified
   dairy product, said separate part contains only the fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
35
   58. The high protein acidified dairy product according to claim 56 or 57, wherein the
   fruit and/or vegetable preparation is blended with other components of the of the high
   protein acidified dairy product.
                                                94

    59. The high protein acidified dairy product according to any one of the claims 56-58,
    wherein a portion of the fruit and/or vegetable preparation is blended with other com
    ponents of the of the high protein acidified dairy product and a portion of the fruit
    and/or vegetable preparation is present in a separate part of the high protein acidified
  5 dairy product, said separate part contains only the fruit and/or vegetable preparation.
    60. The high protein acidified dairy product according to any one of the claims 56-59,
    comprising fruit and/or vegetable preparation in an amount of at least 2% (w/w), pref
    erably at least 10% (w/w), and even more preferably at least 20% (w/w).
10
    61. The high protein acidified dairy product according to any one of the claims 56-60,
    comprising fruit and/or vegetable preparation in an amount in the range of 2-80%
    (w/w), preferably in the range of 10-60% (w/w), and even more preferably in the range
    of 20-50% (w/w).
15
    62. A method of producing the food product according to any one of the claims 50-61,
    the method comprising the steps of
    - providing a fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of the claims 1-41,
    - providing one or more additional ingredients, and
20  - combining, and optionally also processing, the one or more additional ingredients and
    the fruit and/or vegetable preparation, thereby producing the food product.
    63. A method of producing a high protein acidified dairy product, the method comprising
    the steps of:
25
    a) providing a pasteurised dairy base
    b) providing a heat-treated fruit and/or vegetable preparation according to any one of
    the claims 1-41,
30
    c) contacting the pasteurised dairy base with a chemical or microbial acidifying agent,
    thereby obtaining the pre-acidification mixture,
    and
35
    d-variant 1) packaging the fruit and/or vegetable preparation and the pre-acidification
    mixture in the same container and allowing the pre-acidification mixture to acidify in the
    container, or
                                                 95

   d-variant 2) allowing the pre-acidification mixture to acidify, optionally processing the
   acidified mixture, and packaging a combination of the acidified mixture and heat-treated
   fruit prep.
 5
   64. The method according to claim 63, wherein the acidified food product is selected
   from the group consisting of yoghurt, skyr, sour cream, sour buttermilk, cottage
   cheese, quark, fromage frais, and an acidifed whey beverage .
10 65. The method according to claim 63 or 64, wherein the acidified dairy product is a
   yoghurt.
   66. The method according to any one of the claims 63-65, wherein the acidified dairy
   product has a pH in the range 3.0-5.5.
15
   67. The method according to any one of the claims 63-66, wherein the acidified dairy
   product has a total protein content of at least 4% (w/w), for example at least 6%
   (w/w), such as at least 8% (w/w), e.g. at least 10% (w/w).
20 68. The method according to any one of the claims 63-67, wherein the acidified dairy
   product has a total protein content in the range of 4-30% (w/w), for example in the
   range of 6-25%, such in the range of 8-20%, e.g. in the range of 10-18% (w/w).
                                                96

<removed-apn>    <removed-date>
                      1/1
             Fig. 1

