Electronic Health Record (EHR) education repository with
a. metadata which supports interactive currency of the data provided to students
b. metadata which supports a shared governance and quality assurance process model
c. episodes within the record which have metadata tags used to select cases relevant to the eHealth
education situation requirements.
d. The ability to indicate the educational complexity of the episode for a specified healthcare
learning situation
e. A specific complexity determination method for education of clinical coder training (using the
International Classification of Diseases or any variation of this classification)
f. The ability to identify episodes for practice or assessment in order to segregate pools of episodes
g. Identification of the source organisation to support ongoing quality assurance and governance
processes.

                EDITORIAL NOTE
                        <removed-apn>
- There is 11 pages of Description only

 Description of eHRoI
Healthcare and information systems used in healthcare change rapidly. Educating clinical and other
professionals to the processes, tools, quality and safety requirements of these systems is a challenge
     * to educators,
     * to individuals seeking to maintain their professional proficiency or return to the work
         environment after an absence
     * to professional bodies seeking to guide their members and lead their communities
     * to governments seeking to ensure quality data and efficient systems in a safe and responsive
         healthcare environment.
This invention has been specifically designed to provide a tool which simulates the systems and
processes used in healthcare information systems, data collection and specification through the use
of a cloud-based software tool which:
     * provides a simulated electronic health record (EHR) environment of artificially identified
         health records in digitized or fully computable health format as a shared educational
         resource for different professional domains (such as clinical coding or nursing) thus reducing
         the burden of record collection and maintenance
     * provides a standardised, metadata-based framework for identification of educational
         materials and assessments relevant to specific skills within a healthcare domain for each
         episode of care within the EHRs in the repository.
     * Maintains quality assured answers to each practice or assessment task employs a shared
         governance and quality assurance model for educational tool content development,
         assessment and maintenance associated with the EHR repository
     * provides a standardised marking mechanism to ensure consistency of assessment of
         proficiency to undertake task/s.
     * provides standardised feedback for correct, incorrect, improperly sequenced or otherwise
         divergent answers thereby improving consistency of education and reducing tutor marking
         time.
     * maintains a repository of users assessment and practice answers across domains and across
         countries all based upon a single EHR repository which supports student reporting,
         educational organisation reporting and creation and maintenance of a research repository.

The components which are inventions are
     *   the Metadata specific data for the episode - for general use and governance control
     "   the Episode Tags
     "   the Use Case Specific Answers
2.1     Episode Specific Metadata
                                                                                      of the record to
These data are used to manage the quality control governance and representation
students and administrators. Key data elements are:
Data Element                    Unique    Use within the invention
 EHROL Episode ID               No        Used to uniquely identify this episode within the EHR
 Ward,                                    repository and for display purposes only
 Doctor
 DayStaylntended
 Other local data required
 for the education use case
 External Reference             Yes       This number is a reference to the original record at the
 Number                                   source organisation, it allows the source organisation to
                                           review and confirm questions about this record during the
                                           quality review and governance processes
  DayOffSet                     Yes        Number of days after the episode is released to the
                                           individual student that the admission date is to be set (this
                                           supports sequencing of episodes within an episode set)

Data Element                  Unique      Use within the invention
Length of Stay                Yes        This data element is not unique - it is widely used in
                                          healthcare, but it is used here in an innovative and unique
                                          manner. It is used to make all data appear relevant in
                                         time to the student's experience. The number of days is
                                          used to calculate the discharge date of the episode
                                         attempt for display purposes - the system allocates an
                                         admission date for the episode as the date the student is
                                         allocated the case and adds the number of days indicated
                                          in the length of stay to calculate the discharge date.
Episode Status                Yes         Used to identify if this episode is:
                                               -    New - in development or loading process and not
                                                   yet quality assured.
                                               - Submitted - the originating organisation has
                                                   completed its data entry and the record is
                                                   considered ready for the governance and quality
                                                   control process.
                                               -    In Review - these records are able to be included
                                                    in the quality assurance review
                                               - Suspended - there is a coding query in negotiation
                                                   and this episode is no longer for reviews not to be
                                                    presented to students.
                                               - Archived - this episode is out of date
2.2   Episode Tags
Each educational use case is set to test certain criteria, these tags are specific to the educational use
case but include the following core components
Data Element                      Unique      Use within the invention
Record Type                       Yes         Indicates the completeness of the record - this is used
                                              to be able to select short summary records for practice
                                              and assessment in a short period of time, while more
                                              complete records take longer they also test other skills
                                              (including the ability to find the relevant information
                                              and recognise the information needed for a specific
                                              health purpose). This data is relevant to different
                                              health domains in different ways but relevant to all
                                              educations situations for eHealth.
                                              Values:
                                              Scenarios - short summaries or less than 5 pages from
                                              an episode of care.
                                              Partial - episodes which contain part of the full record
                                              but not all components (e.g. they might be missing
                                              EEGs)
                                              Complete - episodes which contain all pages from a
                                              specific episode of care irrespective of the utility of
                                              those pages to the educational setting.

Data Element                      Unique     Use within the invention
Handwritten                       Yes        Indicates if the record includes handwriting. The ability
                                             to correctly interpret (read) handwritten records is a
                                             skill required to be tested.
Educational Complexity            Yes        A code system designed to indicate the complexity of
                                             this case for the specific educational purpose. This is
                                             used to provide simple episodes when first training
                                             individuals and to build to more complex cases as the
                                             student's skills progress. The complexity levels for
                                             clinical coder education are provided below.
Topic Specialty                   Yes        This field represents the domain specific topic or skill
                                             being tested by this episode. An example of the clinical
                                             coding specialty list is provided below.
Procedure Complexity              Yes        Indicates if surgical procedures are included in this
                                             episode. For example, organisations may want to start
                                             students with cases without surgery and then later in
                                             the education process to include these cases
Complications                     Yes        Indicates if the episode includes complications of care.
                                             This allows organisations to start students with cases
                                             which do not have complications but to later select
                                             these cases for more complicated educational skill
                                             development.
Case Use                          Yes        Indicates if this episode is intended for use for practice
                                             or assessment. This allows two separate pools of
                                             cases to be established based upon the intended use.
Source Organisation               Yes        The organisation from which this electronic health
                                             record originated - used for quality control and
                                             governance
2.3     Education Use Case specific answers
Each educational use case is set to test certain criteria, firstly there is a broad set of information
about answers for this healthcare domain for this episode of care, then a specific answer relevant to
this healthcare situation (which might change over time)
Data Element                      Unique     Use within the invention
Clinician Query Expected          Yes        An indicator that this case has insufficient
                                             documentation or raises a clinical question and can
                                             only be correctly answered if a question is sent to the
                                             clinician (the question can be answered by the teacher
                                             who acts in the place of the clinician in the real world.)
Episode Feedback                  Yes        Feedback to be provided if a clinical query is required
                                             to correctly resolve the episode
Answer Status                     Yes        Used to manage answers - and govern the system
                                             Status may be
                                             New - a new answer not yet ready to be used by
                                             students
                                             Awaiting Review - the status when episodes are sent
                                             to review panels.

Data Element                      Unique   Use within the invention
Healthcare Domain Being           Yes      This is used to determine which answers are relevant
tested                                     to the students and supports multi health care uses of
                                           the episodes but also internationalisation. For
                                           example:
                                           Indication that this question answer set is for clinical
                                           coding using ICD-10-UK version 5 or ICD-10-AU version
                                           10, or Nursing Informatics Australian competency set
Case Classification relevant to   Yes      Used to group and confirm that specific competencies
healthcare domain being                    have been assessed. For example in clinical coding this
tested                                     might be the Diagnosis Related Group used to
                                           represent this episode of care in the healthcare
                                           domain being tested (ICD-10-AM version 10)
                                           More than one of these may be indicated.
2.4    Answer Sets
Detailed Answers specific to the healthcare domain being tested
Data Element                     Unique        Use within the invention
Answer                           Yes           An answer established by the review process to be the
                                               correct answer for this episode and healthcare
                                               domain.
                                               For example: in ICD-10-AM 10t edition this would be
                                               a specific code such as S111
Answer Description               Yes but       If the system is testing code selection the description
                                 not           of that code will be provided automatically from the
                                 mandatory     code system tables (this ensures that codes that do
                                               not exist are not accepted and thereby reduces
                                               student frustration with typographical errors in their
                                               answers)
Group                            Yes           If an answer has more than one answer these answers
                                               can be grouped to support testing of correct
                                               sequencing. This field represents a number used to
                                               indicate the first level of sequence
Sequence within group            Yes           This is not maintained as a data element but implied
                                               by the sequence of entry within a group code
Correct or Incorrect             Yes           Used to indicate if this answer is to be marked as
                                               correct (1)or as incorrect (0)
Importance                       Yes           Used to indicate the marks to be taken off if this
                                               answer value is incorrect or used in error
                                               Note: See marking algorithm to see how this is
                                               applied.
Sequence Importance              Yes           Used to indicate the marks to be taken off if the
                                               answer is correct but in the wrong sequence
                                               Note: see marking algorithm to see how this is
                                               applied.

Data Element                          Unique                  Use within the invention
Feedback if the code is               Yes                     This is detailed feedback to the student to be
entered                                                       automatically provided. It isonly shown to the
                                                              student if the student enters this answer. This is
                                                              particularly useful if the answer is in error (ie. correct
                                                              or incorrect value - 0). This allows the system to
                                                              collect feedback for incorrect answers thereby
                                                              reducing teacher time to mark and provide feedback
                                                              and ensure consistent messages to students.
Feedback if this code is not          Yes                     This is detailed feedback to be given to the student if
entered                                                       they do not submit an answer with this answer
                                                              present.
Feedback if this code is in the       Yes                     This feedback is provided if this answer is correct AND
wrong sequence                                                present but in the wrong sequence.
3 Governance and quality assurance model
The governance model employs shared input to the EHR education repository, answers etc and to
reviewing of material in that repository in order to share the load and improve consistency and
quality of the answers in the education repository.
                                                               Pool
                                          9                      El                    9  HealthDom~ainEducation
      Local Organisation            Custodian                            Reviewers           Governance Body
       AddEsowes otand          Ensnd curmpleteness
       Health Doma n                submiussoin
                                       Cormplete
                                           Yes
                                          episodes an
                                        Prepare
                                      reieer
                                          t    ttmp te    Reviewers   prv   dfeedc
                                   episod answersk
      Reviewcoding
          query
       Agree with
       suggestions
                                     Agreement on
                         Yes.
                                 Release episode and
                                  answers for active
                                           Use
                                  umit Codn Quryt
                                HealbmtCd   DmanEucaio
                                   Govemance Bod
                                   C o                 tD
                                            ncqe tole                                       tmrm e ctan
                                   edt      r, upd.at
                                            ai         u
                                        eisod

4 Coding Complexity
The ability to specifically define the complexity of an episode for the purposes of sequencing
education and confirmation of skills is essential but has never been attempted before. The following
are details of the complexity levels defined for clinical coding using the International Classification of
Diseases.
Level     Description                             Objective                                Number of
                                                                                 Diagnosis External     Procedures
                                                                                 Codes     Causes
1       Test of coding      Cases where the use of the index and tabular list    Min I     Max 0        Min 0
        conventions         is ALL that is required to obtain the correct code
        only                (diagnosis or procedure)
                            For example: admission for unspecified asthma
                            (no other information or coding required).
2       Overarching         The correct allocation of the code should require    Min I     Max 0        Min 2
        principles          correct use of lead terms and
                            Ability to correctly interpret standards for
                            -     principal diagnosis, (including correct coding
                                  or not to code symptoms)
                            -     additional diagnosis and
                            -     inclusion of procedures including
                                  anaesthesia
                            Inclusion of common additional codes such as
                            smoking status
3       Include injuries    Code complications which may change the code         Max 6     Min I        Min 0
        and common          Codes from ICD Chapters 19 and 20, with                                     Max 6
        day stay            external causes
        administration      Use of "other" - understanding when this should
        codes               be used
                            Code sets such as Dagger / asterisk, cancers
                            Cancelled procedures
                            Application of coding standards for these cases
                            Diabetes without complications
                            Administrative coding such as admission for
                            chemotherapy.
        Moderately          Single reason for admission with co-morbidities      Min 2     Min 0        Min 0
        Complex             and /or the need for multiple interventions.         Max 10    Max 1        Max 10
                            Include conditions which require the use of the
                            first essential modifier when looking up codes in
                            the index.
                            Diabetes and related conditions
                            Supplementary conditions
                            Allied health interventions
                            Requires medical vocabulary and clinical
                            knowledge and application of clinical knowledge
                            for look up and understanding
                            Application of coding standards and rules
                            correctly
                            Sequencing required to avoid duplication of
                            diagnosis codes.
5       Highly complex      Full range of conditions                             Unlimited Unlimited    Unlimited
                            Full range of medical and surgical complications
                            Multiple injuries or accidents
                            Intensive care complex cases

6         Requires          Ability to document rationale for coding query   Unlimited     Unlimited     Unlimited
          documentation     and debate
Note: each level includes codes which meet lower levels of complexity plus the specified
requirements for the level defined.
The maximum number of codes is used to indicate complexity but also as it impacts the time
it might take the code the case. For a random selection of cases to be fair a range of size of
cases is needed as coding is timed and required to meet the minimum speed of 6 records
and hour (as an average).
ICD-10-AM specific measures:
     * The number of codes does not include supplementary codes for chronic conditions
          untreated conditions.
     " Supplementary codes for chronic conditions may be included from level 3 onwards.
4.1     Level 1
     " Coding using general conventions only (use of the index and tabular list only to obtain the
         correct code/s).
          Used as the introductory point for clinical coder training. The objective of this level is to
         ensure that coders have the ability to use the index and tabular list without other knowledge
          requirements.
4.2     Level 2
All level 1 plus any combination of the requirements below
     " Procedures where record indicates lead term and can be coded using just that lead term
     " Anaesthesia (with and without)
     " General standards for coding of diseases and interventions must be applied. For example:
          principal diagnosis and additional diagnosis code selection, sequencing of principal
         diagnosis.
     " Presence of diabetes alone without complication
     * Codes which return .8 other
4.3     Level 3
All level 1 and 2 plus any combination of the requirements below
     " Complications which change the code
     e Codes from chapters 19 and 20, external causes
     " Sets of codes such as dagger / asterisk, cancer and morphology.
     * All cancelled procedures
     " Maximum of 6 diagnosis codes (including external causes).
     " Case requires student to apply one specialty standards to correctly code
     " Diabetes with one associated complication
4.4     Level 4
All level 1- 3 plus any combination of the requirements listed below
     " Maximum of 10 codes (including external causes)
     " Records include first essential modifier using the term/s required for lookup.
     * Coding requires clinical knowledge, critical thinking and/or problem solving.
     " Diabetes with multiple complications, including the multiple microvascular complications code
     * Case requires student to apply more than one specialty standard to correctly code. Note this
          may include other locally published coding rules relevant to the jurisdiction (e.g. in Australia
         this includes specialist ACCD or VICC published advice)

     * Medical and surgical complications or common complication arising from surgery
4.5     Level 5
All level 1 - 4 plus
     * No maximum number of codes
     * Full range of conditions
     * Multiple medical and surgical complications, adverse complications or complications arising
         from surgery
     e Multiple injuries or accidents
     * Requires medical vocabulary - and deduction for look up and understanding.
     * Interpret general and specialty coding rules and standards in detail
4.6     Level 6
All 1 - 5 plus
     * Requires clinical or coding standards clarification - case or standard is not clear

5 Marking Algorithm
5.1    The Objective
    "    To improve consistency of healthcare profession education a consistent approach to
         assessment of each skill is needed.
    "    To enable automation of marking and thereby reduce workload for tutors and allow
         healthcare professions to undertake self-assessment against known correct
         answers/activities
    *    To take advantage of the fact that computers can apply complex marking strategies
         consistently much more easily than people can, though these is a need to be able to apply
         the process manually if this is to be consistently applied in those environments which don't
         use the tooling.
    *    There is a requirement to confirm competence, which in a vocational education perspective
         is not represented by a 'pass mark' in the traditional academic sence.
    *    To be able to analyse correct and incorrect answer patterns to improve training and
         recognise common errors.
5.2    Marking Strategy
To work safely those working in healthcare must be able to work consistently and proficiently at the
tasks relevant to their profession. When a set of episodes is created to assess practice those
episodes are presented to students to undertake specified task/s. The algorithm used has two
components.
-    Marking the individual episode answer
-    Marking the complete set of episodes to assess overall competence in the skill being tested.
5.2.1    Marking the individual Episode
To identify if the individual episode was correct or undertaken correctly it is essential to be able to
identify if any major mistakes were made that might cause safety or other significant impact on the
patient or the organisation. Different types of healthcare tasks will be assessed using the same
algorithm, but the actual answers and importance levels will differ for each answer/task to be
undertaken.
Refer to the answer set metadata which indicate how importance is indicated. The algorithm
applies the following:
    " Start all episodes with 100 marks
    " For each answer or activity present but not correct or given/undertaken but not required
              o deduct from the total for the episode the number of marks relevant to the
                  importance identified, for example (note the actual number of marks are
                  determined by the governance process for the healthcare domain):
                      - Importance 1 = 20 marks
                      - Importance 2 = 10 marks
                      - Importance 3 = 5 marks
    *    For each correct answer or activity required but not provided
              o deduct from the total for the episode the number of marks relevant to the
                  importance identified, for example:
                      - Importance 1 = 20 marks

                     -   Importance 2 = 10 marks
                     -   Importance 3 = 5 marks
    *    For each correct answer or activity present but in the wrong sequence
             o deduct from the total for the episode the number of marks relevant to the
                 importance identified, for example:
                     - Importance 1 = 20 marks
                     - Importance 2 = 10 marks
                     - Importance 3 = 5 marks
Assessing competence for an episode set (specific skill)
For each set of episodes how many of those episodes must be at the pass mark or better to be
counted towards competence. The pass mark is the level at which NO important errors were made.
For example: if a student undertook 10 episodes to assess a specific skill and made no more than
one important error that could be considered competent, a small number of level 2 important or
level 3 important errors would be permitted. The system allows the pass mark to be set for each
individual healthcare domain.

      Editorial Note
         <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Claims
The claims defining this invention are as follows:
    a)  Electronic Health Record (EHR) education repository with
                   a. metadata which supports interactive currency of the data provided to
                        students
                   b. metadata which supports a shared governance and quality assurance process
                        model
                   c. episodes within the record which have metadata tags used to select cases
                        relevant to the eHealth education situation requirements.
                   d. The ability to indicate the educational complexity of the episode for a
                        specified healthcare learning situation
                   e. A specific complexity determination method for education of clinical coder
                        training (using the International Classification of Diseases or any variation of
                        this classification)
                   f. The ability to identify episodes for practice or assessment in order to
                        segregate pools of episodes
                   g. Identification of the source organisation to support ongoing quality assurance
                        and governance processes.
    b) Answers for a specific healthcare education situation where each individual episode of care
        in the EHR education repository may have multiple answers for different educational
        requirements and situations, including local modifications
                   a. Each answer set includes detailed answers which are designated as correct or
                        incorrect and include importance to support automation of marking and
                        provision of feedback
    c) Governance and Quality Assurance Model for shared governance to improve consistency of
        education and identify where greater clarification is needed to support best clinical or e
        health practice
    d) Repository of all answers
                   a. This is a research tool and quality improvement resource to improve
                        knowledge of educational skills, difficulties and inconsistencies.

<removed-date>
                              EDITORIAL NOTE
                                     201
<removed-apn>
              - There DUH  pageV of Drawings RQO\

                  
<removed-date>
              
              <U+03ED> K|G<U+018C>|sG<U+01C1>ŽIÐŽwÐŽYGYl<U+0190>AYE<U+01C1>Ž<U+018C>UIuŽ<U+01C1>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                
              
              dSG<U+01B5>Ys<U+018B><U+01B5>GsY|GYlsŽY<U+0190><U+01C1>slSsYlSs<U+0190><U+0190>ŽIl<U+01C1>A<U+018C>GA<U+018C>GEG<U+0190>Ð<U+018C>sdGEdGuŽ<U+01C1>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
