                                     ABSTRACT
      Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a transmission device, including:
a transmission means (20), configured to indicate operation states of a push-button
switch by exposing an indication part (22) of the transmission means (20); and an
elastic means (30) for driving the transmission means (20), disposed between the
transmission means (20) and a rocker (40) of the push-button switch and configured to
be deformed in responding to a pushing of a push button (10) of the push-button
switch, so as to drive the transmission means (20) to move between a first
predetermined position and a second predetermined position, in which, the first
predetermined position corresponds to an on state of the push-button switch and the
second predetermined position corresponds to an off state of the push-button switch.
The embodiments of the present disclosure also provide a push-button switch and a
socket. With the transmission device, the push-button switch and the socket according
to the embodiments of the present disclosure, the transmission means is driven to
move through the elastic force generated when the push button is pressed. The
number of parts is small and the structure is simple.
                                            16

       46
Fig. 1
  1/5

 TRANSMISSION DEVICE FOR PUSH-BUTTON SWITCH, PUSH-BUTTON
                                  SWITCH AND SOCKET
TECHNICAL FIELD
[0001] Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a push-button switch, and
more particularly to an improvement of an operation-state indication of a push-button
switch.
BACKGROUND
[0002] The push-button switch is widely used in homes, factories and other fields. As
is well known in the art, unlike the rocker switch, the push-button switch includes a
push button that protrudes from the panel, and the operation state of the push-button
switch is switched by pressing the push button. For example, when the switch is
initially in the on state, if the push button is pressed, the switch is switched to the off
state. Then, the push button is released, the push button springs back and the switch
remains in the off state. When the switch remains in the off state, if the push button is
pressed, the switch is switched to the on state. Then, the push button is released, the
push button springs back and the switch remains in the on state. Therefore, the push
button switch needs an indication means to indicate the operation state of the push
button switch. However, the driving of the indication means for the push-button
switch in the prior art is complicated and has a large number of parts, so it is expected
to further improve the driving.
SUMMARY
[0003] According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
transmission device for a push-button switch, comprising: a transmission means
comprising a driving part and configured, in responding to a pushing action to the
push-button switch, to drive, by the driving part, a rocker of the push-button switch to
pivot, wherein, the transmission means further comprises an indication part for
providing an indication function of indicating operation states of the push-button
switch; and an elastic means for driving the transmission means, disposed between the
transmission means and the rocker of the push-button switch and configured to
deform in responding to a pushing to a push button of the push-button switch, so as to
                                              I

drive the transmission means to move between a first predetermined position and a
second predetermined position, wherein, the first predetermined position corresponds
to an on state of the push-button switch and the second predetermined position
corresponds to an off state of the push-button switch.
[0004] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the elastic means is
configured in a following manner: in the case that the transmission means is in the
first predetermined position, when the push button of the push-button switch is pushed
to actuate the push-button switch, the elastic means is deformed, and the transmission
means is maintained in the first predetermined position and not moved; when the push
button of the push-button switch is released, the transmission means is driven to move
to the second predetermined position through a restoring force of the elastic means, so
as to change a state indication of the push-button switch; in the case that the
transmission means is in the second predetermined position, when the push button of
the push-button switch is pushed to actuate the push-button switch, the elastic means
is deformed, and the transmission means is maintained in the second predetermined
position and not moved; when the push button of the push-button switch is released,
the transmission means is driven to move to the first predetermined position through
the restoring force of the elastic means, so as to change the state indication of the
push-button switch.
[0005] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the transmission means
is slidably mounted to the push button of the push-button switch.
[0006] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the indication part is
disposed on a top surface of the transmission means and the push button has an
opening window provided in a predetermined position, and when the indication part is
slid to the predetermined position, the indication part is exposed out of the opening
window, so that the operation state of the push-button switch is observable to a user.
[0007] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the transmission means
and the push button (10) comprises abutting parts fitted with each other, and the
abutting parts promote deformation of the elastic means in the case that the
                                            2

transmission means is maintained in a corresponding predetermined position and not
moved.
[0008] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the elastic means is
configured to be deformed in responding to a pivoting of the rocker, so as to produce
a force adapted to push the transmission means when the push button is released.
[0009] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the elastic means is a
spring whose two ends are attached to the transmission means and the rocker,
respectively.
[0010] According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a push
button switch, comprising: a push button; the above transmission device; a rocker
pivotably mounted to a housing of the push-button switch and configured to pivot in
responding to a downward movement of the transmission means, such that a moving
contact of the push-button switch is driven to pivot through the rocker, so as to
contact or to be separated from a fixed contact of the push-button switch.
[0011] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the push button has a
sliding rail, and the transmission means is slidably mounted to the sliding rail.
[0012] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the rocker has a spring
seat, and an end of the elastic means is adapted to be accommodated in the spring seat.
[0013] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the rocker is divided
into a first portion and a second portion, the second portion is provided with the
spring seat, so as to divide the push-button switch into two parts, wherein, the first
portion of the rocker, the moving contact and the fixed contact form an installation
panel adapted to be mounted to a fixed wall, the push button, the transmission means,
the elastic means and the second portion of the rocker form a cover separated from the
installation panel, wherein the second portion of the rocker is mounted to a main body
of the cover through a pivot shaft.
                                            3

[0014] According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
socket, comprising the above push-button switch for controlling power-on and power
off of the socket.
[0015] With the transmission device, the push-button switch and the socket according
to the embodiments of the present disclosure, two functions of transmission and
indication are realized in the transmission means. That is, one part has two functions,
thus resulting in few parts, a low cost, a convenient assembling and a facilitated
production.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
[0016] Embodiments of the present disclosure will now be described, by way of
example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
[0017] Fig. 1 is a schematic view showing a push-button switch in a first operation
state according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0018] Fig. 2 is a schematic view of a push-button switch in a transition state
according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0019] Fig. 3 shows a schematic view of a push-button switch in a second operation
state according to an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0020] Fig. 4 shows a perspective bottom view of a push button according to an
embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0021] Fig. 5 shows a perspective bottom view of a transmission means according to
an embodiment of the present disclosure;
[0022] Fig. 6 shows a perspective view of a rocker according to an embodiment of the
present disclosure; and
[0023] Fig. 7 shows a schematic view of an embodiment in which a rocker is divided
into two portions.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0024] Embodiments of the present disclosure will now be described in detail with
reference to the accompanying drawings. It should be noted that the same numerals
may be used for similar parts or functional components in the drawings. The
accompanying drawings are merely intended to illustrate the embodiments of the
                                            4

present disclosure. Those skilled in the art can obtain alternative embodiments from
the following descriptions without departing from the spirit and the protection scope
of the present disclosure.
[0025] A transmission device for a push-button switch according to embodiments of
the present disclosure will be described below with reference to the accompanying
drawings. It should be understood that a structure of the push-button switch in the
drawings is merely exemplary, and some features not related to an inventive concept
of the present application are simplified or omitted. In addition, in the illustrated
features, some invisible lines or features not relevant to the present application are
illustrated with dashed lines. It should be understood that although the present
application illustrates the inventive concept of the present application with a push
button switch combined in a socket, the specific implementation forms of the push
button switch are various. For example, the push-button switch can be used as a
standalone switch part and also can be integrated in another part to operate as a
module therein. For example, the push-button switch can be integrated in a socket for
controlling power-on and power-off of the socket, and the push-button switch can also
be integrated in other electrical parts. These variations are all covered by the
protection scope of the present application. In addition, direction terms such as upper,
lower, left and right described below are merely for convenience of description, but
not for limitation. In actual implementations, the direction can be changed according
to actual applications.
[0026] Fig. 1 to Fig 3 illustrate an operation principle of a push-button switch
according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. As shown in Fig. 1 to Fig. 3,
the push-button switch according to the embodiment of the present disclosure includes
a push button 10, a driving device and a rocker 40.
[0027] A transmission device includes a transmission means 20, and the transmission
means 20 includes a driving part 26 and is configured, in responding to a pushing
action of the push-button switch, to drive, by the driving part, the rocker 40 of the
push-button switch to pivot. The transmission means 20 further includes an indication
part 22 for providing an indication function of indicating operation states of the push
                                           5

button switch. An elastic means 30 for driving the transmission means 20 is disposed
between the transmission means 20 and the rocker 40 of the push-button switch and is
configured to be deformed at the push button 10 of the push-button switch in
responding to a pushing of the push button 10 of the push-button switch, so as to drive
the transmission means 20 to move between a first predetermined position and a
second predetermined position. The first predetermined position corresponds to an on
state of the push-button switch and the second predetermined position corresponds to
an off state of the push-button switch.
[0028] The rocker 40 is pivotably mounted to a housing of the push-button switch and
is configured to pivot in responding to a downward movement of the transmission
means, such that a moving contact 50 of the push-button switch is driven to pivot by
the rocker 40, so as to contact or to be separated from a fixed contact 60 of the push
button switch.
[0029] With the transmission device according to the embodiment of the present
disclosure, when the push button 10 of the push-button switch is pushed, the elastic
means 30 is deformed; when the push button 10 of the push-button switch is released,
the transmission means 20 is driven to move by a restoring force of the deformed
elastic means 30. The transmission device according to the embodiment of the present
disclosure has a simple structure and is easy to implement.
[0030] In an embodiment, a top surface of the transmission means is provided with an
indication part 22. The indication part 22, for example, may be an area marked with
different colors. The push button 10 has an opening window 12 provided in a
predetermined position. When the indication part 22 is slid to the predetermined
position, the indication part 22 is exposed out of the opening window 12, so that the
operation state of the push-button switch is observable to a user. In another
embodiment, the indication part 22 may be configured as an independent part attached
to the transmission means.
[0031] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the elastic means 30 is
configured in a following manner: in the case that the transmission means 20 is in the
                                            6

first predetermined position, when the push button of the push-button switch is pushed
to actuate the push-button switch, the elastic means 30 is deformed in a pushing
direction, and also, the transmission means 20 is maintained in the first predetermined
position and not moved; when the push button of the push-button switch is released,
the transmission means 20 is driven to move to the second predetermined position
through the restoring force of the elastic means 30, so as to change a state indication
of the push-button switch; in the case that the transmission means 20 is in the second
predetermined position, when the push button of the push-button switch is pushed to
actuate the push-button switch, the elastic means 30 is deformed in the pushing
direction, and also, the transmission means 20 is maintained in the second
predetermined position and not moved; when the push button of the push-button
switch is released, the transmission means 20 is driven to move to the first
predetermined position through the restoring force of the elastic means 30, so as to
change the state indication of the push-button switch.
[0032] In the illustrated embodiment, the elastic means 30 is used to drive the
transmission means 20 to move, and also acts as a restoring spring for resetting the
push button 10. In other embodiments, the elastic means 30 may be another means
that is independent from the restoring spring that resets the push button 10.
[0033] The structure and operation principle of the transmission device according to
the embodiment of the present disclosure will be described below in combination with
the operation process of the push-button switch. As is well known in the art, the push
button switch has only two operation states, i.e., an on state and an off state. When the
push button is pressed and released, the operation state of the push button is switched.
Each time the push button is pressed and released, the operation state of the push
button is switched once. Therefore, an indication device is required to indicate the
operation state of the push-button switch. The design difficulty of the indication
device lies in how to use the on-off switching movement of the push-button switch to
realize the drive of the indication device.
[0034] As shown in Fig. 1, in an initial state, the moving contact 50 and the fixed
contact 60 are engaged with each other, and the switch is in the on state. In this state,
                                            7

the rocker 40 is in the initial tilted position, and a driving part 26 (a right driving part
in the drawing) of the transmission device 20 abuts against a slave part 46 (a right
driving part in the drawing) of the rocker 40. However, as the transmission means and
the rocker are in an equilibrium state, there is no relative movement therebetween.
[0035] In this state, the transmission means 20 is stationary, and the indication part 22
is exposed out of the opening window 12, so that the operation state of the push
button switch is observable to the user through the opening window 12.
[0036] When the user desires to turn the switch off, the user needs to press the push
button 10 and then release the push button 10. The operation of pressing and releasing
realizes the operation of turning off the push-button switch. Moreover, the push
button 10 maintains in the state that the moving contact 50 and the fixed contact 60
are separated, when the user releases the push button 10. The working principle of the
push-button switch and the transmission device will be described below with
reference to Figs. 2 and 3.
[0037] As shown in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3, when the user presses the push button 10, the
push button 10 moves downwards to push the transmission means 20 to move
downwards; as the transmission means 20 moves downwards, the right driving part 26
of the transmission device 20 presses down the right slave part 46 of the rocker 40;
since the rocker 40 is pivotably connected to a main body of the push-button switch,
the rocker 40 rotates clockwise (the direction observed in the drawing) around a
rotating shaft 48 along with the right driving part 26 of the transmission means
20pressing down the right slave part 46 of the rocker 40; along with the rotation of the
rocker 40, the      rotation movement        drives the moving contact 50         to rotate
counterclockwise so as to be separated from the fixed contact 60, thereby turning off
the switch. It should be noted that the push button 10 is not released yet.
[0038] In this process, since both ends of the elastic means 30 are respectively
mounted to the transmission means 20 and the rocker 40, therefore, the elastic means
30 is deformed in response to the pivoting of the rocker 40, as the right driving part 26
of the transmission means 20 presses down the right slave part 46 of the rocker 40 and
the rocker 40 rotates clockwise around the rotating shaft 48. As can be clearly seen
                                               8

from Fig. 2, the rocker 40 pushes the elastic means 30 to deform, as the right part of
the rocker 40 moves to the lower left (rotating clockwise). At the same time, since the
user's hand is still pressed on the push button 10, the transmission means 20 remains
in the original position under the pressure of the push button 10. In other words,
although the moving contact 50 and the fixed contact 60 have been separated at this
time, the indication part 22 still remains in the exposed position. It should be noted
that, at this moment, the elastic means 30 moves leftwards and downwards (rotating
clockwise) in response to the right part of the rocker 40, and the rocker 40 pushes the
elastic means 30 to deform.
[0039] Referring next to Fig. 3, when the user releases the push button 10, the
pressure acted on the transmission means 20 is removed. Since an end of the elastic
means 30 is fixed or attached to the transmission means 20, the transmission means 20
moves rightwards and upwards under the restoring force of the elastic means 30, so
that the indication part 22 of the transmission means 20 moves to the right side of the
push button 10 and is hidden by the push button 10, that is, the user cannot see the
indication part 22 on the transmission means 20 through the opening window 12. At
the same time, the left driving part 26 of the transmission means 20 moves to a
position corresponding to the left slave part 46 of the rocker 40. The moving contact
50 and the fixed contact 60 are kept in the separated state, and the push-button switch
is kept in the off state.
[0040] At the same time, when the user desires to turn on the push-button switch, the
user can press the push button 10 to perform a process similar to the entire process
from Fig. 1 to Fig. 3 described above, so as to achieve a position from off to on; in
this process, the indication part 22 moves from the right hidden position to the left
exposed position, so as to indicate the on state of the switch. For the sake of brevity,
its detailed description is omitted.
[0041] The structure details of the push-button switch and the driving device of the
present application will be further described below with reference to Fig. 4 to Fig. 6.
[0042] In the illustrated embodiment, the push button 10 includes a cavity defined by
its top and side walls and the transmission means 20 is slidably mounted to the push
                                            9

button 10 of the push-button switch. Sliding is used to drive the transmission means,
the movement process of the transmission device is simple and it is convenient to
control the movement of the transmission means.
[0043] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the transmission means
20 part and the push button 10 include abutting parts fitted with each other, and the
abutting parts promote deformation of the elastic means 30 in the case that the
transmission means 20 remains in a corresponding predetermined position and is not
moved. In the illustrated embodiment, a position limiting part may be provided at an
appropriate position in the cavity of the push button, and a sliding stroke of the
transmission means 20 can be limited when the abutting part and the position limiting
part interact with each other.
[0044] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, as shown in Fig. 4, the
push button 10 is provided with a sliding rail 121, and the transmission means 20 is
slidably mounted to the sliding rail 121. As shown in Fig. 5, two sides of the
transmission means 20 are provided with a sliding part 24, and the sliding part 24 can
be mounted to the sliding rail 121. As shown in Fig. 5, the transmission means 20 may
be provided with a hook part 28, and another end of the elastic means 30 can be
hooked by the hook part 28.
[0045] In an embodiment, both ends of the elastic means 30 may be respectively fixed
to the rocker 40 and the transmission means 20. According to an embodiment of the
present disclosure, as shown in Fig. 6, the rocker 40 is provided with a spring seat 42,
and an end of elastic means 30 is adapted to be received in the spring seat 42. Fig. 6
also shows a pivot shaft 48, and the rocker 40 can be pivotably mounted to the body
of the push-button switch through the pivot shaft 48. The term "fixed" here includes
detachable fixing, without any limitation to a specific structure, as long as it is
ensured that the elastic means 30 is not separated from the rocker 40 and the
transmission means 20 when the elastic means 30 is deformed, and that the elastic
means 30 remains engaged with the rocker 40 and the transmission means 20 when
the elastic means 30 releases the restoring force. According to an embodiment of the
present disclosure, the push-button switch is divided into two parts. One part of the
push-button switch can be configured in the form of an installation panel fixed in a
                                            10

support surface such as a wall or the like, and the installation panel can be fixed to the
support surface (such as the wall or the like) with a screw. The other part of the push
button switch can be configured in the form of a cover matched with the installation
panel, and the cover can cover the installation panel and be fitted with the installation
panel.
[0046] In an embodiment, as shown in Fig. 7, the rocker 40 is divided into a first
portion and a second portion 42' provided with the spring seat, and thereby the push
button switch is divided into two parts. The first portion of the rocker 40, the moving
contact 50 and the fixed contact 60 form the installation panel adapted to be mounted
to a fixed wall surface. The push button 10, the transmission means, the elastic means
30 and the second portion of the rocker 40 form the cover separated from the
installation panel. These two can be mounted together by means of surface fit. In
order to ensure that the separate portion provided with the spring seat can be rotated
with the rest portion of the rocker, the separate portion can be provided with a shaft,
and the separate portion is rotatably mounted to the main body of the cover through
the shaft. It should be understood that a person skilled in the art would conceive other
ways of dividing the rocker 40, under the teachings of the present disclosure.
[0047] According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, an end of the elastic
means is provided with a seat body, the rocker includes a seat hole, and the seat body
is received in the seat hole when another portion is mounted to a portion.
[0048] According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a
socket including the above push-button switch for controlling power-on and power
off of the socket. Thus, the push-button switch can control power-on and power-off of
a jack in the socket. In other embodiments, the push-button switch can be integrated
into other electrical devices. These devices all have the advantages of the transmission
device according to embodiments of the present application.
[0049] With the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated
drawings, many modifications and other embodiments of the present disclosure herein
will recognized by those skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains.
Therefore, it should be understood that the embodiments of the present disclosure are
                                            11

not limited to the disclosed specific embodiments, and that modifications and other
embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the present disclosure. In
addition, although the above descriptions and related drawings describe the example
embodiments in the context of some example combinations of parts and/or functions,
it should be realized that different combinations of parts and/or functions may be
provided by alternative embodiments without departing from the scope of the present
disclosure. In this regard, for example, other combinations of parts and/or functions
more or less different from those explicitly illustrated above are also expected as
being within the scope of the present disclosure. Although specific terms are
employed herein, they are used only in a generic and descriptive sense and not for
purpose of limitation.
[0050] Throughout the specification and the claims that follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the words "comprise" and "include" and variations such as
"comprising" and "including" will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
integer or group of integers, but not the exclusion of any other integer or group of
integers.
[0051] The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
taken as, an acknowledgement of any form of suggestion that such prior art forms part
of the common general knowledge.
                                           12

CLAIMS
      1. A transmission device for a push-button switch, comprising:
      a transmission means comprising a driving part and configured, in responding to
a pushing action to the push-button switch, to drive, by the driving part, a rocker of
the push-button switch to pivot, wherein, the transmission means further comprising
an indication part for providing an indication function of indicating operation states of
the push-button switch; and
      an elastic means for driving the transmission means, disposed between the
transmission means and the rocker of the push-button switch and configured to
deform in responding to a pushing to a push button of the push-button switch, so as to
drive the transmission means to move between a first predetermined position and a
second predetermined position, wherein, the first predetermined position corresponds
to an on state of the push-button switch and the second predetermined position
corresponds to an off state of the push-button switch.
      2. The transmission device according to claim 1, wherein, the elastic means is
configured in a following manner:
      in the case that the transmission means is in the first predetermined position,
when the push button of the push-button switch is pushed to actuate the push-button
switch, the elastic means is deformed, and the transmission means is maintained in the
first predetermined position and not moved; when the push button of the push-button
switch is released, the transmission means is driven to move to the second
predetermined position through a restoring force of the elastic means, so as to change
a state indication of the push-button switch;
      in the case that the transmission means is in the second predetermined position,
when the push button of the push-button switch is pushed to actuate the push-button
switch, the elastic means is deformed, and the transmission means is maintained in the
second predetermined position and not moved; when the push button of the push
button switch is released, the transmission means is driven to move to the first
predetermined position through the restoring force of the elastic means, so as to
change the state indication of the push-button switch.
                                            13

      3. The transmission device according to claim 1, wherein, the transmission
means is slidably mounted to the push button of the push-button switch.
      4. The transmission device according to claim 3, wherein, the indication part is
disposed on a top surface of the transmission means, the push button has an opening
window provided in a predetermined position, and when the indication part is slid to
the predetermined position, the indication part is exposed out of the opening window,
so that the operation state of the push-button switch is observable to a user.
      5. The transmission device according to claim 4, wherein, the transmission
means and the push button comprise abutting parts fitted with each other, and the
abutting parts promote deformation of the elastic means in the case that the
transmission means is maintained in a corresponding predetermined position and not
moved.
      6. The transmission device according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein, the
elastic means is configured to be further deformed in responding to a pivoting of the
rocker, so as to produce a force adapted to push the transmission means when the
push button is released.
      7. The transmission device according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein, the
elastic means is a spring whose two ends are attached to the transmission means and
the rocker, respectively.
      8. A push-button switch, comprising:
      a push button;
      a transmission device according to any one of claims 1-7;
      a rocker pivotably mounted to a housing of the push-button switch and
configured to pivot in responding to a downward movement of the transmission
means, such that a moving contact of the push-button switch is driven to pivot through
the rocker, so as to contact or to be separated from a fixed contact of the push-button
switch.
                                             14

      9. The push-button switch according to claim 8, wherein, the push button is
provided with a sliding rail, and the transmission means is slidably mounted to the
sliding rail.
      10. The push-button switch according to claim 8, wherein, the rocker is provided
with a spring seat, and an end of the elastic means is adapted to be accommodated in
the spring seat.
      11. The push-button switch according to claim 10, wherein, the rocker is divided
into a first portion and a second portion, the second portion is provided with the
spring seat, so as to divide the push-button switch into two parts, wherein, the first
portion of the rocker, the moving contact and the fixed contact form an installation
panel adapted to be mounted to a fixed wall, the push button, the transmission means,
the elastic means and the second portion of the rocker form a cover separated from the
installation panel, wherein the second portion of the rocker is mounted to a main body
of the cover through a pivot shaft.
      12. A socket, comprising a push-button switch according to any one of claims 9
11 for controlling power-on and power-off of the socket.
                                            15

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1/5   Fig. 1

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
2/5   Fig. 2

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
3/5   Fig. 3

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>    Fig. 4
              Fig. 5
              Fig. 6
               4/5

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
5/5   Fig. 7

