                                       ABSTRACT
Devices and methods for vaginal insertion are disclosed.

              14
              15+
". . . ..
              17
        .....
        .~r

              ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION AND VAGINAL INSERTION
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
[0001] This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2013300183 which in turn is a national phase application of PCT/US2013/032233 filed 15
March 2013. The present application claims priority to US 61/681,430 filed 9 August
2012. The entire contents of each of these mentioned applications are hereby incorporated
by reference.
SUMMARY
[0002] Devices and methods for vaginal insertion are disclosed.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0003] FIG. 1 schematically shows a device for vaginal insertion of a cervical cap.
[0004] FIG. 2 schematically shows a cross-section of a portion of the device of FIG. 1.
[0005] FIG. 3 schematically shows a method of using the device of FIG. 1 in cross-section.
[0006] FIGS. 4-9 schematically show a method of using the device of FIG. 1.
[0007] FIG. 10 schematically shows another method of using the device of FIG. 1.
[0008] FIGS. 11-13 schematically show a method of using an alternative device for vaginal
insertion of a cervical cap.
[0009] FIG. 14 schematically shows a cervical cap.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0010] Systems and methods for transferring and storing semen are disclosed. Such a
system for semen transfer typically includes two devices: a transfer device, and an inserter.
The transfer device transfers semen from an initial carrier (such as a condom) to the
inserter, which is then inserted vaginally to deliver semen at or near the cervix.
[0011] FIG. 1 shows an exemplary embodiment of an inserter 11 and a transfer device 12.
As will be described, the inserter1 may interact with transfer device 12 in such a way as to
cause transfer of semen in an initial carrier (such as a condom placed inside the transfer
device, not shown) to the inserter 11. The inserter can be temporarily and removably
attached to a cervical cap 13. A transfer top 14 is configured to mate with the transfer
device that holds the semen and condom. With the inserter 11 and cap 13 attached to the
transfer top 14, the inserter 11 can be lowered on to the transfer device 12 with the condom
                                               -1 -

inside a carrier 17 and the distal tip of the condom in the receptacle 15. Or, as described in
detail below, the cap and transfer top 14 can be lowered onto the transfer device without the
inserter 11 attached. The receptacle can include an internal piston 16 (not visible, hidden
inside transfer device 12), as described in detail below.
[0012] FIG. 2 shows a cross-sectional view of one embodiment of a transfer system. A
carrier 21 is attached to the open, proximal end of a condom containing semen (not shown).
The carrier 21 is sized and shaped to slide along an inner tube 25 of the transfer body 23.
The distal (closed) end of the condom is lowered into the inner tube 25 of a transfer body
23, after which the carrier 21 is seated at the top of the inner tube 25 trapping the wall of
the condom between the two tubes 21, 25. The transfer top 24 is then placed over the
transfer body 23. The transfer top 24 may be initially coupled to the insertion device (not
shown), such that the insertion device handle may be used to position the transfer top 24 on
the transfer body 23. The transfer top 24 is then pressed down against the carrier 21. This
pressure causes the carrier 21 to slide down the inner tube 25. The condom, being attached
to the carrier 21, is thereby everted over the upper lip of the inner tube 25, thereby forming
a gasket-type seal between the inner tube 25 and the transfer top 24; this seal prevents loss
of semen out of the transfer device and also retains air inside the cavity of the inner tube 25.
As the transfer top 24 is fully seated onto the transfer body 23, the volume inside the
receptacle 22, delimited by the carrier 21 and a base 26 of the receptacle (such as a piston),
is decreased. This decrease in volume exerts pressure on the condom and complies the
interior surface of the condom onto the inner wall of the transfer top 24. Consequently,
pressure is exerted on the semen inside the condom. The semen is therefore expressed
upward into a cavity 27 inside the transfer top 24 and thence through an injector 28 into a
cervical cap preloaded on the inserter. The cervical cap is preloaded on the inserter by, for
example, jaws that squeeze the cervical cap closed. Initially, the injector 28 is interposed
within the flexible material of the cervical cap, preserving a seal between the squeezed
sides of the cervical cap preventing loss of semen from the cervical cap. As the transfer top
24 is fully seated on the transfer body 23 and the semen transfer is accomplished, the
inserter, with attached cervical cap, is released from the transfer top 24. The inserter can
then be inserted vaginally, cervical cap first; the cervical cap itself provides a soft leading
edge for safety and comfort. A latch, lever, button, or other mechanism in the inserter
allows the user to open the cervical cap, effectuate semen release, then release the cervical
cap, or at least to open the jaws to permit semen presentation. The device may then be
                                                -2-

withdrawn after a delay suitable to permit migration of sperm out of the semen in the
cervical cap and through the os of the cervix. Alternatively, the device may be withdrawn
immediately but the cervical cap left behind, optionally with a removal-string attached for
retrieval. A removal-string may be attached to the cap at one end of the string with a user
end of the string designed to protrude from the vagina. The user-end of the removal string
may be affixed to itself so as to form a loop. The user end of the string might also be
attached to a pull-tab, button or other device designed to allow the user to more easily pull
on the string. Alternatively, the string may be attached to the cap at both ends so as to form
a loop, with the loop designed to protrude from the vagina. All the above removal string
configurations can be applied to any object inserted into the vaginal tract that a user may
later wish to remove.
[0013] FIG. 3 shows a cross-sectional view of another embodiment. In step A, a condom
31 containing semen 32 is fitted to the end of a carrier 33. In step B, the carrier 33 is
lowered on to a receptacle 34. The carrier 33 is lowered around receptacle 34 so that the
top of the carrier is below the top of the receptacle. In step C, an insertion device 35, fitted
with a cervical cap 36 and a transfer top 37, is lowered onto the receptacle 34, and pushed
down until the transfer top 37 bottoms out. Piston 38 applies pressure to condom 31
forcing the semen 32 up through inserter 39 to the reservoir of the cervical cap 36.
Insertion device 35 is then lifted off of the transfer top 37 with the cervical cap 36 charged
with semen 32 and ready for use.
[0014] Rather than placing the inserter on the transfer body, a sealing cap may instead be
placed; this transforms the transfer device into a storage capsule for later use.
[0015] Although described herein with respect to cervical caps used in artificial
insemination, a transfer system can be used to position an object other than a cervical cap in
the vaginal tract, for instance a diaphragm, pessary, tampon, suppository, pH monitor, or
other contraceptive or other vaginal devices. The same transfer system can of course be
used to position cervical caps for purposes other than artificial insemination, for example
contraception.
[0016] EXAMPLE 1
[0017] 1. The condom is used as a standard condom, receiving semen in the closed distal
end, and is retrieved for transfer.
                                                -3-

[0018] 2. A user fits the open, proximal end of the condom 41 onto the carrier 42 using an
alignment mark on the condom or carrier (FIG. 4).
[0019] 3. Holding the carrier 42, the user introduces the condom 41 into the opening of the
inner tube, or receptacle 43, of the transfer body 44 and lowers the carrier (FIG. 5), fitting
the carrier outside of the receptacle, until the carrier meets a stop.
[0020] 4. The carrier 42 is thus installed outside the receptacle 43 of the transfer body 44,
and the semen in the closed distal end of the condom 41 is "presented" atop the receptacle
43 of the transfer body 44 (FIG. 6).
[0021] 5. A user lowers the inserter 11, with its pre-loaded cervical cap 13 and transfer top,
onto the transfer device (FIGS. 7-8). The downward action of the inserter and transfer top
automatically performs the transfer of the semen to the pre-loaded cervical cap as follows:
[0022] A. The transfer top first seals around rim of the carrier, then slides the carrier down
around the piston. This downward motion of the carrier and receptacle is equivalent to an
upward motion of the piston relative to the outer and receptacles.
[0023] B. The piston thus raises the closed, distal end of the condom up, into the sealed
inner cavity of the transfer top, and presses the condom fully onto the surface of the inner
cavity.
[0024] C. The resultant pressure causes semen to travel up out of the transfer top through
the injector (between the contacting rim surface of the cervical cap and into the cervical
cap.
[0025] D. When the transfer top reaches the end of its downward motion, the transfer top
automatically snaps into and is secured onto the transfer body. The user then pulls the
Inserter 11 and cervical cap 13 (which has been loaded with the semen from the condom)
out of the transfer top and off of the injector. The cervical cap rim surfaces will seal where
the injector passed through and the inserter and cervical cap will be prepared to use for
placement of the cervical cap (FIG. 9).
[0026] Alternatively, as shown in FIG. 10, the transfer body may instead be capped 101,
with the semen sealed inside for storage and future use.
[0027] EXAMPLE 2
[0028] FIGS. 11-13 schematically show an alternative embodiment. A condom 111 is used
as a standard condom, receiving semen in the closed distal end, and is received for transfer.
As shown in FIG. 11, the condom 111 is lowered into a receptacle 112 and the proximal
                                                -4-

end 114 of the condom is everted over the outer perimeter 113 of the receptacle. In the
depicted alternative embodiment, the everted proximal end of the condom may be moved
axially along the outer perimeter of the receptacle so that the distal end of the condom is
raised upward toward the top of the receptacle. A transfer top 121 is then placed atop the
receptacle 112, as shown in FIG. 12. The condom may act as a gasket to form a
substantially air-tight seal between the receptacle and the transfer top. The receptacle then
defines a substantially air-tight space, where one part of the receptacle is movable as a
piston 122. As shown in FIGS. 11-13, the receptacle and piston can be configured similar
to a syringe's barrel and plunger respectively. As shown in FIG. 13, the receptacle, with
the attached transfer top and condom, can be positioned with the transfer top adjacent to a
cervical cap, in some cases by inverting the assembled transfer top, receptacle and condom.
Once in place, the piston is actuated, reducing the size of the air-tight portion of the
receptacle, and effecting a transfer of the semen from the distal end of the condom through
a passage in the transfer top. The semen is then deposited in the cervical cap, as shown in
FIG. 13. Similar to other embodiments, the inserter may seal the cervical cap closed so as
to retain the semen. The inserter can then be inserted vaginally to position the cervical cap
over the cervix, where the cap can be opened and the semen released so that the sperm are
allowed to migrate through the cervix.
[0029] FIG. 14 schematically shows a cervical cap 141 with a removal string 142. The
string 142 can be attached to the cap 141 at only one end. The string can be attached to the
cap at both ends so as to make a loop 143. The end of the string can be attached to the
string itself so as to form a loop 144 while only one end is attached to the cap 141. The
string may be attached to the cap at one end and attached to a pull-tab, button or other
device 145 designed to allow the user to more easily pull on the string.
[0030] Methods for aiding conception can include fitting a condom having a closed, distal
end containing semen onto a carrier, placing the carrier atop a receptacle such that the
closed, distal end of the condom is lowered into the receptacle, placing a transfer top
defining a passage onto the carrier, and moving a piston relative to the receptacle causing
transfer of semen from the closed, distal end of the condom through the passage into a
cervical cap, wherein the receptacle is made effectively sealed from air passage by the
piston at the bottom end and the transfer top and the condom at the top end, wherein the
space between the transfer top and receptacle is sealed by the condom. Such methods can
                                              -5-

further include sliding the carrier axially along the outer perimeter of receptacle until the
closed, distal end of the condom is raised upward towards the top of the receptacle. Such
methods can include sliding the carrier axially along the outer perimeter of receptacle until
the carrier meets a stop. Such methods can include pushing down axially on the receptacle
with the transfer top.
[0031] In such methods, the transfer top can be removably connected to an inserter, the
cervical cap can be contained within an inserter, and/or the cervical cap can be separably
connected to an inserter. Such methods can include connecting the cervical cap to an
inserter and/or transferring the cervical cap from the transfer top to an inserter. In such
methods the carrier can be ring-shaped and the receptacle can be cylindrical.
[0032] Methods for semen transfer can include fitting a condom onto a carrier defining a
passage, the condom comprising a closed distal end in which semen is located, placing the
carrier in relation to a receptacle such that both the semen and the closed distal end of the
condom are inside the receptacle, and moving a piston relative to the receptacle to effect a
transfer of semen from the closed distal end of the condom through the passage into a
cervical cap, wherein the receptacle is made effectively sealed from air passage by the
piston at the receptacle's bottom end and by mating of surfaces between the receptacle and
the condom at the receptacle's top end. Such methods can include sliding the carrier axially
along the outer perimeter of receptacle until the end of the condom is raised upward
towards the top of the receptacle, and/or until the carrier meets a stop. In such methods,
transfer top can be connected to an inserter, the cap can be contained within an inserter,
and/or the cap can be connected to an inserter. Such methods can also include connecting
the cap to an inserter, and/or transferring the cap from the carrier to an inserter. In such
methods, the carrier can be ring-shaped and the receptacle can be cylindrical, and/or the
carrier can be shaped to match the receptacle shape.
[0033] Methods for transferring semen from a device can include lowering the closed,
distal end of a condom containing semen ejaculate into a receptacle, everting the open,
proximal end of the condom over the outer perimeter of the receptacle, placing the transfer
top defining a passage atop the receptacle, and moving a piston relative to the receptacle to
effect a transfer of semen ejaculate from the closed distal end of the condom through the
passage in the transfer top which the semen may pass through to exit the device, wherein
the receptacle is made effectively sealed from air passage by the piston at the bottom end
and by the mating surface between the receptacle and the transfer top at the top end. In
                                                -6-

such methods, the open, proximal end of the condom can be moved axially along the outer
perimeter of the receptacle after the condom is everted until the closed, distal end of the
condom is raised upward towards the top of the receptacle before placing the transfer top.
In such methods a cervical cap can be separably attached to the transfer top, the transfer top
can be separably connected to an inserter, the cervical cap can be contained within an
inserter, and/or the cervical cap can be separably connected to an inserter. Such methods
can also include connecting the cervical cap to an inserter, and/or transferring the cervical
cap from the transfer top to an inserter. In such methods can include inverting the
receptacle, piston and transfer top such that the top of the device comprising the transfer top
becomes the bottom of the device and the bottom of the device, comprising the receptacle
and piston becomes the top of the device before transferring the semen through the passage
in the transfer top. Such methods can also include placing the transfer top on the receptacle
for protected storage of the semen, and/or placing a cover on the receptacle before the
transfer top for protected storage of the semen.
[0034] In any method involving a cervical cap, a removal string can be attached to the
cervical cap. The removal string can be of sufficient length that when the cervical cap is
placed over a person's cervix at least a portion of the string may protrude from the person's
vagina. The method can include inserting the cervical cap into a person's vagina such that
a portion of the removal string protrudes from the vagina. The string can have two ends
and both ends can be attached to the cervical cap so as to form a loop, or only one end can
be attached to the cervical cap, or the string may be attached to the cervical cap at a
midpoint that is at neither end. The portion of the removal string protruding from the
vagina can be formed into a loop. The portion of the removal string protruding from the
vagina can be affixed to a pull-tab, button or other device designed to allow the user to
more easily pull on the string.
[0035] Methods for vaginal insertion of an object can include attaching an object to an
insertion means for vaginal insertion and deposition, inserting the insertion means into a
person's vagina, and depositing the object inside the vagina. The insertion means can
include means for removably attaching the object to the insertion means, and means for
releasing the object from the insertion means so as to deposit the object at a desired
location. In such methods the object can be, for example, a diaphragm, a pessary, a
tampon, a suppository, or a pH monitor. In such methods a removal string can be attached
to the object. The removal string can be of sufficient length that when the object is placed
                                               -7-

in the vagina at least a portion of the string may protrude from the person's vagina. Such
methods can include depositing the object such that at least a portion of the removal string
protrudes from the vagina. The string can have two ends and both ends can be attached to
the object so as to form a loop, or only one end can be attached to the object, or the string
may be attached to the object at a midpoint that is at neither end. The portion of the
removal string protruding from the vagina can be formed into a loop. The portion of the
removal string protruding from the vagina can be affixed to a pull-tab, button or other
device designed to allow the user to more easily pull on the string.
[0036] An object sized and shaped for insertion and deposition in the vaginal tract of a
human can include a removal string. The removal string can have a first end and a second
end. The first and second ends can both be attached to the object. The string can be of
sufficient length that when the object is placed in the vaginal tract at least a portion of the
string may protrude from the vagina. The object can be, for example, a diaphragm, a
pessary, a tampon, a suppository, or a pH monitor.
                                               - 8-

CLAIMS:
  1. A fertility conception kit comprising:
     a carrier, the carrier adapted to receive a condom having a closed, distal end containing a
             semen deposit therein;
     a transfer top, the transfer top defining a passage onto the carrier;
     a cervical cap;
     a receptacle; and
     a piston moveable relative to the receptacle to transfer the semen deposit from the closed,
             distal end of the condom through the passage into the cervical cap, the piston
             moveable by pushing down axially on the receptacle;
     wherein:
             the receptacle is effectively sealed from air passage by the piston at the bottom end,
                      and the transfer top and the condom at the top end, and
             a space between the transfer top and receptacle is sealed by the condom.
  2. The fertility kit of claim 1, wherein the receptacle includes a stop, the stop limiting axial
     movement of the carrier.
  3. The fertility kit of claim 1, wherein the transfer top engages the receptacle to move the
     piston.
  4. The fertility kit of claim 1, wherein the transfer top is removably connected to an inserter.
  5. The fertility kit of claim 1, wherein the cervical cap is contained within an inserter.
  6. The fertility kit of claim 1, wherein the cervical cap is separably connected to an inserter.
  7. The fertility kit of claim 1, wherein the carrier is ring-shaped and the receptacle is
     cylindrical.
                                                  9

8. The fertility kit of claim 1, further comprising a cover, the cover configured to engage the
    receptacle for protected storage of the semen deposit.
9. The fertility kit of claim 1, further comprising a removal string attached to the cervical cap.
10. The fertility kit of claim 9, wherein the string has two ends, each end attached to the cervical
    cap.
11. The fertility kit of claim 9, wherein the removal string is configured as a loop.
12. The fertility kit of claim 9, wherein the removal string is configured as a pull tab.
13. A fertility conception kit comprising:
    a carrier, the carrier adapted to receive a condom having a closed, distal end containing a
            semen deposit therein;
    a transfer top, the transfer top defining a passage onto the carrier;
    a cervical cap;
    a receptacle; and
    a piston moveable relative to the receptacle to transfer the semen deposit from the closed,
            distal end of the condom through the passage into the cervical cap, the piston
            moveable by pushing down axially on the receptacle;
    wherein:
            the receptacle is effectively sealed from air passage by the piston at the bottom end,
                     and the transfer top and the condom at the top end,
            a space between the transfer top and receptacle is sealed by the condom, and
            the carrier configured to slide axially along the outer perimeter of receptacle until the
                     end of the condom is raised upward towards the top of the receptacle.
                                                 10

14. The fertility kit of claim 13, wherein the piston is inverted before the transfer top engages
    the receptacle.
15. The fertility kit of claim 13, wherein the receptacle includes a stop, the stop limiting axial
    movement of the carrier.
16. The fertility kit of claim 13, wherein the transfer top engages the receptacle to move the
    piston.
17. The fertility kit of claim 13, further comprising a transfer body, the receptacle disposed
    within the transfer body, wherein the transfer top automatically snaps into the transfer body.
18. The fertility kit of claim 13, further comprising a cover, the cover configured to engage the
    receptacle for protected storage of the semen deposit.
19. The fertility kit of claim 13, further comprising a removal string attached to the cervical cap.
20. The fertility kit of claim 19, wherein the string has two ends, each end attached to the
    cervical cap.
                                                11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
