Abstract
An end-user installable lighting system comprising a control unit 11 having a
power supply 13 powering a control circuit 15 having one or more output circuits
17, 81, 87, 93 to connect to light emitting diode lighting (LED lighting). Each
control circuit is controllable to adjust the lighting level. The control circuit 15 is
contained in a housing 25, with the output circuits and a return lead 31
terminating at a keyed connector 33 having an externally threaded member35.
The system includes one or more lengths of cable 41 having a keyed input
connector 43 of opposite sex to connector 33 and sealing female threaded cap 51
to secure the connectors 33 and 43. The cable 41 has a keyed cable output
connector 55 of the same configuration as connector 33. The system includes one
or more junction connector pieces 57 having a keyed junction input connector 59
and a keyed junction output connector 63 of identical configuration to connectors
33 and 55 respect6ively, and a keyed lighting output connector 69 to connect with
lighting equipment 83, 85, 89. The junction connector pieces 57 each haved
connector, said keyed junction output connector being provided with a removable
female threaded plug with waterproofing seal, removable for connecting a further
said length of cable and further said junction connector piece to allow serial
expansion of lighting on said output

                                              1
Garden Lighting System
Technical Field
[0001] This invention relates to garden lighting, and in particular garden lighting in
domestic gardens.
Background Art
[0002] The following discussion of the background art is intended to facilitate an
understanding of the present invention only. It should be appreciated that the
discussion is not an acknowledgement or admission that any of the material referred
to was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of the
application.
[0003] Garden lighting allows a home owner or occupier to enhance their garden and
yard by illuminating pathways and plants, providing a pleasing visual effect at night.
[0004] Various garden lighting arrangements are available for domestic gardens and
yards. Previous arrangements have involved the use of incandescent spotlights which
required connecting to mains wiring by a licensed electrician, or plug-in incandescent
spotlights which can be arranged by the owner or occupier. Such incandescent
spotlights would typically be aimed upward into a tree on the property to illuminate
branches and understorey foliage. Such spotlights can draw a significant amount of
electricity, with 150 watt reflector globes being typically employed.
[0005] In addition to this, garden lighting comprising a number of 12 volt lamps
wired in parallel, and connected to a mains transformer, has also been popular. Such
garden lighting is typically used to illuminate garden borders and pathways. Such
arrangements can be installed by the do-it-yourself person, but an understanding of
electrical wiring is required, so that a short circuit does not occur. In addition, where
a join to wiring is made, it is necessary to properly waterproof the join or a short
circuit and/or corrosion to the wiring can occur, leading to early failure. Dealing with
these technical issues in a manner sufficient to ensure long life of any installation can
be beyond the capability of many a do-it-yourself person, who might be inclined to
attempt to install such an arrangement.
[0006] With the development of higher intensity light emitting diode technology,
stand-alone garden lights have become popular. These comprise an LED light

                                              2
powered by rechargeable batteries and a solar cell to charge the battery, connected
with a circuit comprising a photo detector such as an LDR, photodiode or photo
transistor which controls the LED to run only when ambient lighting drops to a low
level. These are self contained within a housing, so that an number of such units can
be placed around a garden and along a path. Many of these units have a spike
associated with the housing, so they can be secured in place by pushing the spike into
the soil. These stand-alone garden lights do not require any special electrical skill on
the part of the installer, and subject to placement providing sufficient sunlight to
charge the batteries, will usually give service of two years or thereabouts, before the
rechargeable batteries fail, or the circuitry succumbs to the effects of corrosion from
the typically damp environment in which they are installed.
[0007] Other lighting popular with consumers is strings of lights comprising many
lamps, often 100 or more arranged on wiring which may be 15 metres long or longer.
These may be arranged outside, often strung around patios and wrapped around tree
trunks and branches. The original strings of lights were referred to as bud-lighting
and utilised low current incandescent lamps, and were powered by a low voltage
power supply which plugged into mains electricity (110/117/220/240 volt AC,
depending on the country). Some string lighting has provided multi-colour lights,
typically red, green, blue and yellow, and control circuitry to run the lights in various
different patterns Later string lighting has employed LEDs, which may be white, red,
blue, green, or yellow, some with circuitry to prvide different lighting patterns, colours
and fade effects, some powered by a low voltage power supply which plugged into
mains electricity, and other arrangements powered by rechargeable batteries and a
solar cell to charge the battery, connected with a circuit comprising a photo detector
which controls the LEDs to run only when ambient lighting drops to a low level.
[0008] Both the string lighting and the stand-alone garden lights have proven to be
popular with consumers; however, these arrangements usually provide lighting which
would be considered to be decorative rather than utilitarian.
[0009] Against this background, it is an object of the invention to provide a do-it
yourself lighting system which can provide decorative lighting and utilitarian lighting
such as path lighting and spot lighting, which possesses long term reliability given the
harsh environment in which it is to be installed.
[0010] Throughout the specification unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to

                                              3
imply the inclusion of a stated integer or group of integers but not the exclusion of
any other integer or group of integers.
Summary of Invention
[0011] In accordance with the invention there is provided an end-user installable
lighting system comprising a control unit having a power supply powering a control
circuit having at least one output circuit to connect to light emitting diode lighting
(LED lighting), said control circuit having a controllable voltage level for each said
output to control the level of light output by said LED lighting, said control circuit
being contained in a housing, where each or a plurality of said outputs and a
common/return lead connect with a keyed connector having an externally threaded
member; said lighting system including at least one length of cable having a keyed
cable input connector complementary to said keyed connector and having a female
threaded cap fitted therearound with waterproofing seals, to sealingly secure said
input connector to said keyed connector or another connector of like configuration,
said length of cable having a keyed cable output connector complementary to said
keyed input connector; said lighting system including at least one junction connector
piece having a keyed junction input connector of like configuration to said keyed cable
input connector, a keyed junction output connector of like configuration to said keyed
cable output connector, and a keyed lighting output connector to connect with lighting
equipment in like manner with threaded sealing members; wherein each said junction
connector piece has associated with said keyed junction output connector, a
removable female threaded plug with waterproofing seal, removable for connecting a
further said length of cable or further said junction connector piece to allow serial
expansion of lighting on said output, said removable female threaded plug being
secured on a tether to said junction connector piece.
[0012]    By "keyed", it is meant that plugs and sockets are configured either by
configuration or spacing of pins or by a physical key and keyway slot, either of which
avoid plugs and sockets being connected with the incorrect polarity.
[0013] Preferably the keyed connector is a male connector.
[0014]    Preferably the keyed lighting output connector has a different configuration
from the keyed connector and the keyed cable input connector, so as not to be
compatible with and connectable to either.

                                              4
[0015] Preferably said power supply is utility mains powered and includes a low
voltage output to connect to said control circuit.
[0016] Preferably said control circuit provides multiple outputs to separately control
the level of light output by red LED lighting, green LED lighting, and blue LED lighting.
[0017] Preferably said control circuit provides multiple outputs to separately control
the level of light output by red LED lighting, green LED lighting, blue LED lighting, and
white LED lighting.
[0018] Preferably said control circuit includes a programmable timer arranged to
receive start and stop times for operation of each said output circuit.
[0019] Preferably said control circuit includes a wireless interface to allow computer
control of said control circuit.
[0020]   Preferably said control circuit includes a wireless interface to allow computer
control of programming of operation of said control circuit.
Brief Description of Drawings
[0021] Three preferred embodiments of the invention will now be described with
reference to the drawings in which:
Figure 1 is a diagram showing part of a lighting system according to the first
embodiment;
Figure 2 is a diagram showing a further part of the lighting system of the first
embodiment;
Figure 3 is a diagram showing part of a lighting system according to the second
embodiment;
Figure 4 is a diagram showing a further part of the lighting system of the second
embodiment;
Figure 5 is a diagram showing part of a lighting system according to the third
embodiment;
Figure 6 is a diagram showing a further part of the lighting system of the third
embodiment;
Figure 7 is a circuit schematic of a control unit for the lighting system of the first
embodiment;

                                              5
Figure 8 is a circuit schematic of a control unit for the lighting system of the second
embodiment;
Figure 9 is a circuit schematic of a control unit for the lighting system of the third
embodiment;
Figure 10 is a view of a junction connector piece according to the second
embodiment; and
Figure 11 is a close up view of part of the junction connector piece shown in figure 10.
Description of Embodiments
[0022] The first embodiment illustrated in figures 1, 2 and 7 is an end-user
installable lighting system in the form of a do-it-yourself outdoor lighting system. The
outdoor lighting system comprises a control unit 11 having a power supply 13
powering a control circuit 15 having one output circuit 17 to connect via an output 19
to white light emitting diode lighting (white LED lighting). The control circuit 15 has a
controllable voltage level output 21 for controlling the voltage output on output 19 by
the output circuit 17 to control the level of light output by the white LED lighting.
Control of the luminance may be achieved by an App on an iPhone or Android phone
or tablet, interfaced by Bluetooth to the control circuit. The control circuit 15 also
includes a programmable timer arranged to receive start and stop times for each day
of the week, for operation of the output circuit 17. Programming of the timer may be
through the same App that controls the luminance of the lighting. The control circuit
15 will also be programmed with time of day and day of week data, to allow time
keeping.
[0023] The control unit 11 is contained in a housing 23 which has a mains electricity
cable with plug (not shown) for the user to plug into a weatherproof power point to
provide electricity to the power supply 13. The power supply 13 has a step-down
transformer 25, rectifier 27 and switch mode power supply 29 to provide regulated
power to the control circuit 15 and optionally to the output circuit 17.
[0024] The output 19 and a common/return lead 31 connect with a keyed connector
33 having an externally threaded member 35, an internal axial key recess 37, and
containing two pin sockets 39, one for output 19 and one for return 31. The outdoor
lighting system includes a length of cable 41 having a keyed input connector 43 of
opposite sex to the connector 33 and having an internal axial key 45 to mate with the
internal axial key 37 of the connector 33, and two pins 47, 49 to be received in the

                                               6
pin sockets 39 of the connector 33. The connector 43 has a female threaded cap 51
fitted therearound with waterproofing seal in the form of an annular washer that fits
over the keyed input connector 43 and inside the female threaded cap 51, to sealingly
secure the keyed input connector 43 against the annular face 53 of the connector 33,
with the sealing taking place when the female threaded cap 45 is tightened on the
thread 35 of the connector 33.
[0025] The length of cable 41 has a keyed cable output connector 55 of like structure
to the connector 33 (except that connector 33 is a chassis mount connector while
connector 55 is a self-contained connector) to connect to a junction connector piece
57. The length of cable 41 can be any desired predetermined length, such as two,
five or ten metres, and the user may connect lengths serially in order to achieve a
required length for their particular installation.
[0026] The junction connector piece 57 has a keyed junction input connector 59 of
like structure to connector 43, also having a female threaded cap 51 fitted
therearound. The keyed junction input connector 59 connects with the keyed cable
output connector 55 in like manner to the input connector 43 to output connector 33
connection with threaded sealing members, as described in relation to those
connectors. The junction connector piece 57 has a cable 61 of length of 15 cm and
terminates in a keyed junction output connector 63 of identical configuration to the
keyed connector 55. The junction connector piece 57 has, extending from a tee
junction 65, a cable 67 terminating in a keyed lighting output connector 69 to connect
with lighting equipment indicated generally at 71. The keyed junction output
connector 63 is provided with a removable female threaded plug 73 with
waterproofing seal, which hangs tethered by a plastic line 75 secured by a
surrounding loop 77 that surrounds the cable 61 proximal to the keyed junction
output connector 63. The arrangement of the removable female threaded plug 73
physically connected by the plastic line 75 secured by a surrounding loop 77, ensures
that the removable female threaded plug 73 is always retained in proximity to the
keyed junction output connector 63, so that if the keyed junction output connector 63
is used to connect to a further length of cable 41, removable female threaded plug 73
will not be lost, and if the junction connector piece 57 is the last part in the connected
outdoor lighting system, the removable female threaded plug 73 may be screwed onto
the keyed junction output connector 63 to sealingly terminate the end of the wiring
run, as can be seen in junction connector piece 57" in figure 2.

                                              7
[0027] The lighting output connector 69 is of similar structure, with threaded sealing
members, to the keyed junction input connector but scaled down in size so as not to
be compatible with the connector 55, and has a female threaded cap 79, which mates
with a male threaded portion 80 on lighting connector 81, which in figure 1 connects
to a string of deck mounted up-lights 83.
[0028] The keyed connector 33, keyed input connector 43, keyed cable output
connector 55, keyed junction input connector 59, and keyed junction output connector
63 have two conductors, one being a feed connecting to output 19, and the other
being a return connecting to common/return lead 31, and the polarity of the
connections is observed in all of the connectors. The keyed lighting output connector
69 and lighting connector 81 also have two conductors, one being a feed connecting
to output 19, and the other being a return connecting to common/return lead 31, and
the polarity of the connections is observed in all of the connectors.
[0029] If the outdoor lighting system is to be expanded beyond the junction
connector piece 57, the female threaded plug 73 may be removed and another length
of cable 41', the same as cable 41, connected, to allow serial expansion of lighting on
the output 19. This cable 41' may be connected to a mixture of further such cables
41' and junction connector pieces 57' and 57", shown in figure 2. Lighting connector
81' connects by wire to a bollard path light 85, and lighting connector 81" connects to
a spike 87 mounted LED spot light 89.
[0030] The second embodiment illustrated in figures 3, 4 and 8 is also an end-user
installable lighting system in the form of a do-it-yourself outdoor lighting system. The
outdoor lighting system differs from the first embodiment in that instead of the control
circuit 15 having one output circuit 17 to connect via an output 19 to white LED
lighting, the control circuit 15 has one output circuit 81 to connect via an output 83 to
red LED lighting with a controllable voltage level output 85 of the control circuit 15 for
controlling the voltage output on output 83 by the output circuit 81 to control the level
of light output by the red LED lighting. The control circuit 15 has a second output
circuit 87 to connect via an output 89 to green LED lighting with a controllable voltage
level output 91 of the control circuit 15 for controlling the voltage output on output 89
by the output circuit 87 to control the level of light output by the green LED lighting.
Finally, the control circuit 15 has a third output circuit 93 to connect via an output 95
to blue LED lighting with a controllable voltage level output 97 of the control circuit 15
for controlling the voltage output on output 95 by the output circuit 93 to control the
level of light output by the blue LED lighting. The controllable voltage level outputs

                                              8
85, 91, and 97 are independently controllable to adjust the light level of red, green
and blue LEDs within lighting that is connected to the cables 41 and junction
connector pieces 57, to provide spectrum colour and lumen adjustment of the lighting.
Control of the luminance may be achieved by an App on an iPhone or Android phone
or tablet, interfaced by Bluetooth to the control circuit.
[0031] The keyed connector 33, keyed input connector 43, keyed cable output
connector 55, keyed junction input connector 59, and keyed junction output connector
63 have four conductors, three being feeds connecting to outputs 83, 89 and 95, and
the other being a return connecting to common/return lead 31, and the designation in
the terminal connections is observed in all of the connectors. The keyed lighting
output connector 69 and lighting connector 81 also have four conductors, three being
feeds connecting to outputs 83, 89 and 95, and the other being a return connecting to
common/return lead 31, and the designation in the terminal connections is observed
in all of the connectors. Observation of the designation of the terminal connections
ensures that the correct colour LEDs are controlled in unison.
[0032] The third embodiment illustrated in figures 5, 6 and 9 is also an end-user
installable lighting system in the form of a do-it-yourself outdoor lighting system. The
outdoor lighting system differs from the first and second embodiments in that it
combines the lighting of both. The control circuit 15 having one output circuit 17 to
connect via an output 19 to white LED lighting with a controllable voltage level output
21 of the control circuit 15 for controlling the voltage output on output 19 by the
output circuit 17 to control the level of light output by the white LED lighting. The
control circuit 15 has a second output circuit 81 to connect via an output 83 to red
LED lighting with a controllable voltage level output 85 of the control circuit 15 for
controlling the voltage output on output 83 by the output circuit 81 to control the level
of light output by the red LED lighting. The control circuit 15 has a third output circuit
87 to connect via an output 89 to green LED lighting with a controllable voltage level
output 91 of the control circuit 15 for controlling the voltage output on output 89 by
the output circuit 87 to control the level of light output by the green LED lighting.
Finally, the control circuit 15 has a fourth output circuit 93 to connect via an output 95
to blue LED lighting with a controllable voltage level output 97 of the control circuit 15
for controlling the voltage output on output 95 by the output circuit 93 to control the
level of light output by the blue LED lighting. The controllable voltage level outputs
21, 85, 91, and 97 are independently controllable to adjust the light level of white,
red, green and blue LEDs within lighting that is connected to the cables 41 and
junction connector pieces 57, to provide spectrum colour, white saturation, and lumen

                                             9
adjustment of the lighting. Control of the luminance may be achieved by an App on
an iPhone or Android phone or tablet, interfaced by Bluetooth to the control circuit.
[0033] The keyed connector 33, keyed input connector 43, keyed cable output
connector 55, keyed junction input connector 59, and keyed junction output connector
63 have five conductors, four being feeds connecting to outputs 83, 89 and 95, and
the other being a return connecting to common/return lead 31, and the designation in
the terminal connections is observed in all of the connectors. The keyed lighting
output connector 69 and lighting connector 81 also have five conductors, four being
feeds connecting to outputs 83, 89 and 95, and the other being a return connecting to
common/return lead 31, and the designation in the terminal connections is observed
in all of the connectors. Observation of the designation of the terminal connections
ensures that the correct colour LEDs are controlled in unison.
[0034] The embodiments provide an end user installable configurable and adjustable
outdoor lighting system which can be easily set up without technical knowledge other
than observing the total system wattage. The control circuit 15 or power supply 13
and include over current sensing to protect the system from overload in the event that
the total system wattage is exceeded. The provision of the removable female
threaded plug 73 physically connected by the plastic line 75 secured by a surrounding
loop 77, ensures that the removable female threaded plug 73 is always retained in
proximity to the keyed junction output connector 63, so that if the keyed junction
output connector 63 is used to connect to a further length of cable 41, removable
female threaded plug 73 will not be lost, and if the junction connector piece 57 is the
last part in the connected outdoor lighting system, the removable female threaded
plug 73 may be screwed onto the keyed junction output connector 63 to sealingly
terminate the end of the wiring run. Providing that the instructions impress upon the
end user installer, the importance of screwing on the removable female threaded plug
73 to any unconnected keyed junction output connector 63, and also not to run any
unterminated cable 41, the system provides as close to a fail safe installation as is
possible that may be modified at will by the end user, to produce endless different
configurations of outdoor lighting.
[0035] It should be appreciated that the scope of the invention is not limited to the
particular configurations of the embodiments described herein. For example a further
embodiment may utilise five conductors in the connectors and cables, with the
individual lighting having connections to the white only, the RGB only, or all of the
white and RGB, for different lighting effects.

                                             10
The Claims Defining the Invention are as Follows
1.        An end-user installable lighting system comprising a control unit having a
power supply powering a control circuit having at least one output circuit to connect to
light emitting diode lighting (LED lighting), said control circuit having a controllable
voltage level for each said output to control the level of light output by said LED
lighting, said control circuit being contained in a housing, where each or a plurality of
said outputs and a common/return lead connect with a keyed connector having an
externally threaded member; said lighting system including at least one length of
cable having a keyed cable input connector complementary to said keyed connector
and having a female threaded cap fitted therearound with waterproofing seals, to
sealingly secure said input connector to said keyed connector or another connector of
like configuration, said length of cable having a keyed cable output connector
complementary to said keyed input connector; said lighting system including at least
one junction connector piece having a keyed junction input connector of like
configuration to said keyed cable input connector, a keyed junction output connector
of like configuration to said keyed cable output connector, and a keyed lighting output
connector to connect with lighting equipment in like manner with threaded sealing
members; wherein each said junction connector piece has associated with said keyed
junction output connector, a removable female threaded plug with waterproofing seal,
removable for connecting a further said length of cable or further said junction
connector piece to allow serial expansion of lighting on said output, said removable
female threaded plug being secured on a tether to said junction connector piece.
2.        An end-user installable lighting system as claimed in claim 1 wherein the
keyed connector is a male connector.
3.        An end-user installable lighting system as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein the
keyed lighting output connector has a different configuration from the keyed connector
and the keyed cable input connector.
4.        An end-user installable lighting system as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims wherein said control circuit provides multiple outputs to separately control the
level of light output by red LED lighting, green LED lighting, and blue LED lighting.
5.        An end-user installable lighting system as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 4
wherein said control circuit provides multiple outputs to separately control the level of

                                           11
light output by red LED lighting, green LED lighting, blue LED lighting, and white LED
lighting.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
