C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17360589 Idocx-7 07/2018
ABSTRACT
The present invention relates to novel therapies for treating autoimmune and inflammatory
diseases. More specifically, the present invention relates to a use of low dose interleukin-2 for
the treatment of type I diabetes and other autoimmune and/or inflammatory diseases.

C \Inerwoen\NRPortbl\DCC\AR\17360578_l.docx-17 07 2018
             USE OF LOW DOSE IL-2 FOR TREATING AUTOIMMUNE - RELATED OR
                                                       INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS
This application is a divisional of Australian Application No. <removed-apn> which is a
divisional application of Australian Application No. 2012228418, the entire contents of which
are incorporated herein by reference.
                                                         FIELD OF THE INVENTION
The present invention relates to novel IL-2-based therapies of human diseases. More
specifically, the present invention relates to low doses IL-2 therapies of autoimmune,
immune-related, or inflammatory diseases including inflammation in human subjects.
                                                   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) was identified almost 30 years ago [1] and originally called T cell growth
factor because of its ability to stimulate T lymphocytes in vitro. It is a protein with a reported
molecular weight of between approx. l3kda and l7kda [2] and an isoelectric point of approx.
6 to 8.7.
IL-2 has been used in the clinic for boosting effector immune responses in cancers and
infectious diseases [3, 4]. It is now authorized for use in human for the treatment of cancer.
In one of its registered indications, adjunct treatment of renal cell carcinoma (RCC), less than
10% of the patients respond to treatment. This limited efficacy of IL-2 is now partly explained
by the recent discovery that IL-2 also plays a major role in the peripheral survival and
suppressive function of regulatory T cells (Tregs) [5, 6], which are known to supress anti
tumor effector responses.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                                -2
In fact, IL-2/IL-2 receptor (IL-2R) signalling is important during immune responses of both
effector T cells (Teff) and Treg. On the one hand, extensive IL-2R signalling is necessary for
the development of terminally differential short-lived Teff cells that exhibit enhanced
functional activity, and for eliciting proper T cell memory [7]. On the other hand, IL-2/IL-2R
signalling is essential for Treg development and homeostasis as shown by the fact IL-2
knock-out mice lack Tregs. Noteworthy, IL-2 or IL-2R deficient mice are able to mount
effector immune responses, as notably attested by their development of severe T-cell
mediated auto-immune diseases (AID).
These different consequences of IL-2 signalling abnormalities are now explained by the fact
that both quantitative and qualitative differences in IL-2/IL-2R signalling regulate Treg and
Teff. Tregs appear to require low IL-2/IL-2R signalling threshold to support their
development and peripheral homeostasis [6]. IL-2 administration has been shown to lead to
marked expansion and activation of Tregs in mice and humans [3, 4, 8].
Nowadays, IL-2 continues to be utilized exclusively for cancer immunotherapy, and has not
been investigated in human auto-immune diseases or, more generally, in human diseases
caused by an undesirable immune response. This is because of the perceived and expected
risks associated with such treatment. Indeed, the capacity of IL-2 to stimulate Teffs carries the
risk of activating the very effector T cells that mediate the disease and therefore to aggravate
the disease.
                                                        SUMMARY OF INVENTION
An object of the invention relates to a method for reducing or preventing an undesirable
immune response in a human subject, the method comprising administering to said subject an
amount of interleukin-2 (IL-2) efficient to stimulate regulatory T lymphocytes (Tregs)
without substantially inducing effector T lymphocytes (Teffs).

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        -3
A further object of the invention relates to a method for reducing or preventing an undesirable
immune response in a human subject, the method comprising administering to said subject an
amount of interleukin-2 (IL-2) efficient to stimulate regulatory T lymphocytes (Tregs)
without substantially inducing IL-2-associated side effects.
A further object of the invention relates to a method for reducing or preventing an undesirable
immune response in a human subject, the method comprising administering to said subject an
amount of interleukin-2 (IL-2) efficient to stimulate regulatory T lymphocytes (Tregs)
without substantially inducing effector T lymphocytes (Teffs) and IL-2-associated side
effects.
A further object of the invention relates to a method for reducing or preventing an undesirable
immune response in a human subject, the method comprising administering to said subject an
amount of interleukin-2 (IL-2) efficient to shift the balance (or ratio) between regulatory T
lymphocytes (Tregs) and effector T lymphocytes (Teffs) (Treg/Teff balance) towards Tregs in
said subject.
A further object of the invention relates to a method for reducing or preventing an undesirable
immune response in a human subject, the method comprising administering to said subject an
amount of interleukin-2 (IL-2) efficient to increase the balance (or ratio) between regulatory T
lymphocytes (Tregs) and effector T lymphocytes (Teffs) in said subject.
The present invention proposes novel IL-2-based therapies. The invention shows, for the first
time, that IL-2 can be used as a novel class of immuno-regulatory and anti-inflammatory
drugs acting by specific Treg expansion/activation.
A further object of the invention relates to a method for treating an autoimmune, immune
related or inflammatory disorder in a human subject, the method comprising administering to
said subject an amount of interleukin-2 (IL-2) efficient to shift the balance between regulatory
T lymphocytes (Tregs) and effector T lymphocytes (Teffs) (Treg/Teff balance) towards Tregs
in said subject.

C \Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_I.docx-I7 07/2018
                                                         -4
A further object of the invention relates to a method for treating an autoimmune, immune
related or inflammatory disorder in a human subject, the method comprising administering to
said subject an amount of interleukin-2 (IL-2) efficient to stimulate regulatory T lymphocytes
(Tregs) without substantially inducing effector T lymphocytes (Teffs), and/or to decrease
inflammation.
The invention may be used for curative or preventive treatment of such disorders. More
particularly, the methods of the invention prevent occurrence or development of an
autoimmune, immune-related or inflammatory disorder in a subject.
IL-2 is typically administered repeatedly.
Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to claim 1, wherein it is to be administered at a dose of about 0.05 to about
2 millions international unit (MIU)/m 2 /day, preferably about 0.1 or 0.2 to about 1MUI/m 2 /day
or at a dose of less than about 3.5 MIU/day.
In a preferred embodiment, it is administered at a dose of about 3MIU/day or at a dose of less
than about 2 MIU/day, preferably at a dose of between about 0.1MIU and about 2MIU/day,
preferably of between about 0.3MIU and about 1MIU/day.
The treatment may preferably comprise at least a first course wherein interleukin-2 is
administered once per day during at least 3 consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7, still
preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days. Preferably it is followed by a maintenance dose after two
to four weeks. The maintenance dose can be administered once a week, or once or twice a
month.
In a preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a dose of
about 0.2MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3 consecutive

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        -5
days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed by a
maintenance dose of about 0.2MUI/m 2 after one to three weeks, which maintenance dose can
be repeated every one to three weeks. In a preferred aspect, the subject is an adult that is
administered with about 0.3MUI as the daily dose of 0.2MUI/m 2 .
In another preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a
dose of about 0.6MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3
consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed
by a maintenance dose of about 0.6MUI/m 2 after two to 4 weeks, which maintenance dose can
be repeated every two to four weeks. In a preferred aspect, the subject is an adult that is
administered with about IMUI as the daily dose of 0.6MUI/m 2 .
In still another preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a
dose of about 1.8MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3
consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed
by a maintenance dose of about 1.8MUI/m                    2 after about one to two months, which
maintenance dose can be repeated every one to two months. In a preferred aspect, the subject
is an adult that is administered with about 3MUI as the daily dose of 1.8MUIm 2.
Generally speaking, it is preferred that IL-2 is administered at a dose of D/10 to 20xD,
preferably D/5 to 1 OxD, wherein D is the minimal dose triggering up-regulation of expression
of CD25 in Treg, without inducing expansion of Treg. Preferably the up-regulation of
expression of CD25 is at least 33%, preferably at least 50%.
The invention stimulates regulatory T lymphocytes (Tregs) without substantially inducing
effector T lymphocytes (Teffs) in a human subject . The methods of the invention make it
possible to increase the Treg/Teff balance or to increase potent suppressive Treg cell
population in said subject.
IL-2 is further administered for reducing or preventing inflammation in a human subject.

C \Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_I.docx-I7 07/2018
                                                                  -6
The invention may be used for the treatment or prevention of any condition associated to or
caused by an undesirable immune response. It is particularly suited for treating inflammatory,
immune-related or autoimmune diseases, including without limitation HCV-related vasculitis,
uveitis, myositis, type I diabetes, systemic lupus erythematous, systemic vasculitis, psoriasis,
allergy, asthma, Crohn's disease, Multiple Sclerosis, Rheumathoid Arthritis, atherosclerosis,
autoimmune thyroid disease, neuro-degenerative diseases, Alzeihmer disease, graft-versus
host disease, spontaneous abortion and allograft rejection.
Another subject of the invention is a method for determining whether a IL-2 regimen or dose
has to be modified in a patient with an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder, treated with IL-2, which method comprises monitoring the quantity of Tregs and/or
CD25 expression level in Tregs, wherein a quantity of Tregs and/or CD25 expression level in
Tregs inferior to a control value, means that the dose of IL-2 is to be increased.
                                                         LEGEND TO THE FIGURES
Figure 1: Effects of low dose IL-2 on biological markers of HCV related autoimmune
vasculitis
Time course changes in HCV viral load (panel A), cryoglobulin (panel B) and C4
complement serum levels (panel C) are shown. Data are expressed as mean ± standard errors
(n=10, *: P<0.05, **P<0.01, ***: P<0.001).
Figure 2: Effects of low dose IL-2 on lymphocyte sub populations
Time course changes of percentages of CD4mCD25 hiCD127-Foxp3 in CD4 T cells and of
CD8m CD25m Foxp3                          in CD8m T cells (panel A), global Treg/Teff ratio (panel B), absolute
numbers of CD19+ total B cells and Marginal zone B cells (panel C) and of NK cells and
CD 5 6 bright NK cells (panel D) are shown. Data are expressed as mean ± standard errors (n=10,
*: P<0.05, **P<0.01, ***: P<0.001).

C \Inerwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17/07 2018
                                                                  -7
Figure 3. Phenotypic characterization of CD4+ Treg by Flow cytometry. Representative
lymphocyte gate for identification of the CD3CD4+ T subset is shown. Within the CD3
CD4+ T cells, Tregs were identified as CD25higCD127 FoxP3+ cells.
Figure 4. Suppressive activity of Treg cells in HCV related autoimmune vasculitis
patients under IL-2 treatment
FACS purified Treg were assayed for their capacity to suppress autologous effector T cells
proliferation at different ratios (1/1 to 1/8) under allogeneic stimulation. Results are expressed
in cpm. The experiment shown is representative of 4.
Figure 5. Phenotypic characterization of CD8+ Treg by Flow cytometry. Representative
lymphocyte gates for the identification of CD3CD8+ Treg are shown. Within CD3CD8+ T
cells, Tregs were identified as CD25FoxP3 cells.
Figure 6. CD19+ B cells subsets characterization by flow cytometry
B cell subset populations were defined as naive (IgD+CD27-), memory (IgD CD27),
marginal zone(IgD+CD27).
Figure 7: Low dose IL-2 induces a global decrease of inflammation revealed by
transcriptome analyses of PBMCs
Hierarchical               clustering             before and after IL-2 treatment (panel A) highlights gene
downregulations affecting mainly B cell related genes and proinflammatory genes. Data
mining identified the NFKB pathway as central in the decreased proinflammatory response
(panel B). Down-regulated genes in IL-2 treated patients are symbolized in red boxes. Genes
present in the transcriptional signature (panel A) are schematically represented in filled round
boxes. Post-transcriptional activation between 2 gene products (e.g. by phosphorylation,
clivage etc...) is representated with a sharp arrow and a filled arrow stands for a direct
transcriptional activation. Dotted arrows represent indirect signalling.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                                       -8
The table (panel C) shows the results of an ICA of these data. Number of up- or down
regulated signatures in the IL-2-treated group that have significant enrichment for GO terms
and KEGG pathways related to inflammation, immune response, and autoimmune (type I
diabetes mellitus, systemic lupus erythematosus, autoimmune thyroid disease), transplantation
(graft-versus-host                     disease          and  allograft  rejection)  or  inflammatory    infection-related
pathologies                (Chagas             disease,     Leishmaniasis,    Helicobacter   pylori infection,   Malaria,
Amoebiasis, Shigellosis, all characterized by a high degree of inflammation) are shown. As
controls, the same number of randomly-picked GO terms was tested, together with cell-cycle
related GO terms and control pathologies. For each GO term or KEGG pathway, the Khi2 test
p-value indicates a possible enrichment bias for up- or down-regulated signatures as
compared to the overall up- (2527) or down- (3429) regulated signatures .
Figure 8: Low dose IL-2 induces Treg in Type I diabetes patients.
Figure 8 shows the Treg/TCD4 ratio in patients administered with 0.33, 1 or 3 MUI/day IL-2
(Proleukin@) during 5 days. The peak Treg increase is relatively similar at the different doses,
but the duration of the effect is dose-dependent, and provides information to define the
schedule of the maintenance treatment (i.e. the lower the dose, the shorter the delay between
maintenance injections).
Figure 9: Low dose IL-2 did not decrease C-peptide production.
Figure 9A shows the Treg/TCD4 ratio in a patient administered with IL-2 (Proleukin@) during
5 days. Figure 9B shows the concentration of serum C-peptide before and after administration
of IL-2, in the same patient. There is an increase in Treg during treatment, which correlates
with an increase in C peptide production at 2 months.

C: \Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_I.docx-17/07/2018
                                                           -9
                                          DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
The present invention unexpectedly shows, for the first time, in vivo expansion of very potent
supressive Tregs without expansion of Teff nor occurrence of adverse events through low
dose IL-2 immunotherapy in human autoimmune patients.
IL-2 is utilized exclusively for cancer immunotherapy, and has not been investigated alone in
human auto-immune diseases in humans. Indeed, the capacity of IL-2 to stimulate Teffs
carries the risk of activating the very effector T cells that mediate auto-immunity. Here, we
show biological evidence that IL-2 can be used under conditions that induce Tregs without
inducing Teffs, concordant with clinical evidence showing that no immune activation-related
adverse events were observed. In accordance with this invention, IL-2 clearly tips the
Treg/Teff balance in favor of Tregs, as also supported by the globaly reduced inflammatory
context during IL-2 therapy.
In first trials in HCV-related patients, the inventors showed that low-dose IL-2 is well
tolerated, induces a dramatic and selective increase in Treg cells, and leads to clinical
improvement in 80% of the patients.
With a 5-day 1.5M IU/day course treatment, a significant increase of Treg was observed in all
patients (a 2 fold increase), with no side effects. After additional 5-day courses of 3M IU/day,
a further increase of Tregs was noted.
Our results show the treatment was well tolerated, with no significant changes in
granulocytes, red blood cells, or liver enzymes. Furthermore, at the dosage of 1.5MIU/day, no
side effects were noted such as asthenia, transient local reactions at injection sites, flu-like
syndrome, myalgia or hypertension.
Importantly, during the entire treatment and follow-up, there were no biological or clinical
signs indicating activation of pathogenic T cells.
A course of 1.5M IU/day for 5 days represents so far the lowest IL-2 dose with proven
efficacy and safety for Tregs induction purposes in humans.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                               - 10
In addition, the present invention revealed, for the first time, a marked anti-inflamatory
activity of IL-2. Our unsupervised transcriptome analyses showed a clear down-regulation of
signatures/pathways associated with many auto-immune and inflammatory diseases, as well
as immune-related diseases such as graft versus host disease and allograft rejection. With this
study showing that it is possible to use IL-2 to stimulate Treg without stimulating Teff in
humans, the inventors propose that low dose IL-2 treatments will profoundly change the
preventive and therapeutic paradigms for all these diseases.
The inventors have proceeded further with testing low-dose IL-2 in another autoimmune
disease, namely type I diabetes, thereby confirming the interest of low-dose IL-2 in treating
autoimmune, immune-related or inflammatory disorders.
The present invention therefore provides new                            therapeutic approaches   for treating
autoimmune, immune-related or inflammatory disorders using IL-2. The invention discloses
that IL-2, at low doses, can effectively activate or expand suppressive Treg cell population in
subjects              having           autoimmune,      immune-related or inflammatory    disorders, without
substantially activating effector T cells.
The subject is any human patient, regardless of age or gender. In a particular embodiment, the
patient may be a child, or an adolescent.
Interleukin-2 (IL-2)
Within the context of this invention, the term "IL-2" designates any source of IL-2, including
mammalian sources such as e.g., human, mouse, rat, primate, and pig, and may be native or
obtained by recombinant or synthetic techniques, including recombinant IL-2 polypeptides
produced by microbial hosts. IL-2 may be or comprise the native polypeptide sequence, or
can be an active variant of the native IL-2 polypeptide. Preferably the IL-2 polypeptide or
active variant is derived from a human source, and includes recombinant human IL-2,
particularly recombinant human IL-2 produced by microbial hosts.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                                   - 11
Active variants of IL-2 have been disclosed in the literature. Variants of the native IL-2 can
be fragments, analogues, and derivatives thereof. By "fragment" is intended a polypeptide
comprising only a part of the intact polypeptide sequence. An "analogue" designates a
polypeptide comprising the native polypeptide sequence with one or more amino acid
substitutions, insertions, or deletions. Muteins and pseudopeptides are specific examples of
analogues. "Derivatives" include any modified native IL-2 polypeptide or fragment or
analogue thereof, such as glycosylated, phosphorylated, fused to another polypeptide or
molecule, polymerized, etc., or through chemical or enzymatic modification or addition to
improve the properties of IL-2 (e.g., stability, specificity, etc.). Active variants of a reference
IL-2 polypeptide generally have at least 75%, preferably at least 85%, more preferably at least
90% amino acid sequence identity to the amino acid sequence of the reference IL-2
polypeptide.
Methods for determining whether a variant IL-2 polypeptide is active are available in the art
and are specifically described in the present invention. An active variant is, most preferably, a
variant that activates Tregs.
Examples                of IL-2 variants                are disclosed, for instance, in EP109748, EP136489,
US4,752,585 ; EP200280, or EP 118,617.
Preferably we use a recombinant IL-2, i.e., an IL-2 that has been prepared by recombinant
DNA techniques [9]. The host organism used to express a recombinant DNA encoding IL-2
may be prokaryotic (a bacterium such as E. coli) or eukaryotic (e.g., a yeast, fungus, plant or
mammalian cell). Processes for producing IL-2 have been described e.g., in US4,656,132;
US4,748,234; US4,530,787; or US4,748,234, incorporated therein by reference.
In a preferred embodiment, the invention uses an IL-2 of human origin, or an active variant
thereof, more preferably produced recombinantly. A nucleotide and an amino acid sequence
of human IL-2 are disclosed, for instance, in Genbank ref 3558 or P60568, respectively. The
invention more preferably uses a human IL-2.

C \Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_I.docx-I7 07/2018
                                                         - 12
IL-2 for use in the present invention shall be in essentially pure form, e.g., at a purity of 95%
or more, further preferably 96, 97, 98 or 99% pure.
For use in the present invention, IL-2 is typically not combined or co-administered with a
Teff suppressive agent. However, although not preferred or required, drug combinations may
be contemplated.
IL-2 may be used in monomeric or multimeric form.
IL-2 is commercially available, including for pharmaceutical uses, and it is authorized for use
in human patients. Suitable commercial forms include, e.g.,
                - Proleukin®, a recombinant, human IL-2 composition,
                - Aldesleukin®, an unglycosylated des-alanyl-1,   serine-125 human interleukin-2
produced in E. coli.
                - Roncoleukin®, recombinant human IL-2 produced in yeast.
Interleukin-2 may be used alone or in combination with any other therapeutically active agent.
In a preferred embodiment, when IL-2 is not administered in combination with rapamycine
when used in preventing or treating type I diabetes.
Regulatory T cells
Regulatory T cells are T lymphocytes having immunosuppressive activity. Natural Tregs are
characterized as CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ cells. Humans and mice presenting a genetic deficit in
Tregs develop multiple T-cell mediated organ-specific autoimmune diseases. A Treg
quantitative or qualitative defect has been described in many human autoimmune diseases,
including systemic lupus erythematosis (SLE), Type 1 Diabetes, Multiple Sclerosis, uveitis
and myositis. Conversely, addition/restoration of Treg induces clinical improvements in most
animal models of these diseases.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 13
Tregs also play a major role in the control of inflammatory diseases, although their mode of
action in such disease is not well understood. In fact, in most inflammatory diseases, Treg
depletion exacerbates disease while Treg addition decreases it. This is for example shown in
the context of atherosclerosis. Although this disease is not primarily an inflammatory disease,
its development involves an inflammatory component/loop. In apolipoprotein E (ApoE)
deficient mice that spontaneously develop atherosclerosis, Treg depletion significantly
aggravated the plaque formation, while injection of polyclonal Tregs significantly improved
the disease.
Most Tregs are CD4+ cells, although there also exists a rare population of CD8+ Foxp3+ T
lymphocytes with a suppressive activity.
Effector T cells
Within the context of this application, "effector T cells" (or "Teff') designates conventional T
lymphocytes other than Tregs (sometimes also referred to as Tconv in the literature), which
express one or more T cell receptor (TCR) and perform effector functions (e.g., cytotoxic
activity, cytokine secretion, anti-self recognition, etc). Major populations of human Teff
according to this invention include CD4+ T helper lymphocytes (e.g., ThO, Thl, Thl7) and
CD4+ or CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes, and they can be specific for self or non-self
antigens.
In the particular situation of an autoimmune disease, the Teff cells include the T cell
population responsible for or involved in the disease. For instance, such population of T cells
include T lymphocytes which recognize a self antigen such as a thyroid antigen, a joint
antigen, a B-Langherans islet antigen, etc. In a GVHD disease, the Teff cells include T
lymphocytes from the graft.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 14
Selective amplification of Tregs
Within the context of this invention, a stimulation (or induction or activation or amplification)
of Treg designates any increase in proportion of Treg cells relative to Teffs, in number or in
activity as tested by suppressive assays or by expression of molecules that reflect the activity
of the Tregs such as CD25, the alpha-chain of the IL-2 receptor, in a patient. The
augmentation in proportion is preferably by at least 20% as compared to the level prior to
treatment, more preferably at least 40%, even more preferably at least 60%. In a particular
and preferred embodiment, the stimulation designates a shift in the Treg/Teff balance towards
Tregs, or an increase in the Treg/Teff ratio.
An essential aspect of the invention lies indeed in the ability, in vivo, in human patients
having an autoimmune, immune-related or inflammatory disorder, to stimulate Tregs without
substantially inducing Teff.
The induction (or activation or expansion) of Tregs can be measured as disclosed in the
examples, e.g., by measuring the number of Tregs (e.g., based on the expression of CD25,
FoxP3...) and/or the activity of Tregs in samples from the treated subject. The absence of
substantial induction (or activation or expansion) of Teff can also be measured as disclosed in
the examples, e.g., by measuring the number of Teff and/or the activity of Teff in samples
from the treated subject. Prerefably, the absence of substantial induction indicates the target
Teff cell population does not acquire markers of activation such as CD25, CD69, and/or
HLA-DR, or as assessed by whole transcriptome analyses. Detailed methods for detecting,
measuring and quantifying Treg and Teff cells are well known per se in the art and some are
disclosed in the examples.
Stimulation in Tregs may be measured by an increase in Treg counts in the patient, typically
by 10% at least, or by an increase in activation markers such as the intensity of CD25
expression. The absence of Teff induction typically designates that the Teff cell population
has not increased by more than 10% in said subject as a result of treatment.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 15
The stimulation of Treg and absence of substantial induction of Teff is preferably assessed by
a measure of the ratio or the balance Treg/Teff in the treated subject. This balance is
calculated e.g., based on the number of Tregs and the number of Teff in a sample from the
subject. As illustrated in the examples, such a balance typically increases by at least 20% in
the treated patients, more preferably by at least 30%, 40% or 60%.
The baseline percentage of Tregs in human subjects, i.e., the ratio of Tregs/CD4 +Teffs, is
approx. 4.6±0.6% (the baseline % in patients with autoimmune disease may be much lower,
as shown in Example 1, where patients with HCV-induced autoimmune vasculitis had a
baseline percentage level of 3.6%± 0.23 only, although these numbers may vary from one
laboratory to another, based on technical aspects of the measurement).
The results presented in this application show that, after 1 course of treatment with
1.5MIU/day, a 2-fold (100%) increase in the baseline % of Tregs is obtained, which may be
further amplified upon additional treatment. Depending on the protocol, increases above
300% have been obtained. A similar 2-fold increase after 1 5-Day course has been observed
in patient with TID, whatever the dose used (0.33; 1 and 3 MIU/day).
In a preferred embodiment, the method allows an increase by      2 0%, 3 0%, 4 0%, 50%, 75%,
100% or more of the Treg/Teff ratio in a subject.
Furthermore, the invention shows an increase not only in CD4+ Tregs, but also in a rare
population of Tregs which are CD8+.
In a particular embodiment, the invention increases circulating CD4+CD25hCD127-Foxp3
Tregs.
In another particular embodiment, the invention increases circulating CD8 CD25hiFoxp3
Tregs.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 16
Another important aspect is that the amplified Treg cell population is highy suppressive.
Indeed, the results presented show that, upon treatment according to the invention, Tregs are
activated having a potent suppressive activity towards Teff cells. In our study, a substantial
suppressive activity (>75%) could be detected at Treg/Teff ratio of 1/8 in a classical
suppressive assay in which Treg from non treated normal individual gives such a suppression
at ratio of            2 to   14.
The invention therefore allows a substantial increase in Tregs in human subjects having
autoimmune diseases, without substantial alteration or activation of effector T lymphocytes.
In a preferred embodiment, the method of the invention is a method that increases by at least
30% the CD25Foxp3 Tregs in a subject and that causes less than 5% increase in target Teffs
in said subject.
Also, the invention unexpectedly shows that, at preferred administration doses, the IL-2-based
therapies of the invention essentially do not induce arterial hypertension; headaches, nausea,
arthralgia, myalgia, or Flu-like syndrome, nor many other IL-2 known side effects as
described in the IL-2 Summary of Product Charasteristics of the FDA). It is therefore possible
to use IL-2 therapy in human subjects having immune-related disorders, without substantially
activating Teff cells and without substantially inducing IL-2-associated side effects, while
very substantially inducing Tregs and anti-inflammatory effect.
IL-2 Dosage
For use in the present invention, IL-2 is administered at a dosage which effectively activates
Tregs without substantially activating Teffs. The consequence is a dramatic increase in the
Treg/Teff balance in the subject.
The effective dosage can be adjusted by the practitioner, based on information contained in
the present application. In particular, with the knowledge of the present invention that, in
patients with autoimmune disease, IL-2 may be administered under conditions which do

C:\InterwoveNRPotbl\DCC\AAR\l7360578_1.docx-17/07/2018
                                                                     - 17
activate Tregs and which essentially do not activate Teff, the skilled person may be able to
adjust dosages to each patient and condition.
Typically IL-2 is administered at a dose of about 0.05 to about 2MIU/m 2 /day, preferably 0.2
to about 1MIU/m 2 /day..
The amount of IL-2 to administer thus preferably depends on the body surface area of the
subject. The body surface area (BSA) is the measured or calculated surface of a human body.
Various calculations have been published to arrive at the BSA without direct measurement:
The Dubois & Dubois formula [18] is commonly used in adults:
                                                                0 42            weight (kg)0 4 2     height (cm)
BSA(m 2 )= 0.007184xweight (kg)o xheight (cm)0.725
                                                                                                 139.2
Another commonly used formula is the Mosteller formula [19] adopted for use by the
Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee of the Cross Cancer Institute, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada:
DSA(n)                   -       /weight (kg) x height (cm)               weight (kg)- 5 x height (cm)-5
                                                          3600                           60
It is more particularly used in children.
Average BSA is generally taken to be 1.73 m 2 for an adult.
                      Average BSA values
               Neonate (Newborn) 0.25 m2
               Child 2 years                           0.5 m 2
               Child 9 years                           1.07 m 2
               Child 10 years                          1.14 m2
               Child 12-13 years                       1.33 m 2
               For men                                 1.9 m 2
               For women                               1.6 m 2

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 18
Typically, the dosage according to the invention is below 3.5 Million IU/day/patient, more
preferably below 3.0 Million IU/day/patient, even more preferably below 2.5 Million
IU/day/patient, further preferably below 2.0 Million IU/day/patient.
The treatment is typically repeated, i.e., the above low doses IL-2 are administered several
times to a subject, to progressively achieve the most substantial benefit. The dose and
schedule of administration vary according to the preventive or therapeutic aim of the
treatment, as well as to the disease to be treated/prevented. Treatment effect can be monitored
by Treg measurements and dose and administration schedule adjusted accordingly.
Examplary dosages are between 0.1 to 3MIU, preferably 0.1 to 1.5MIU, still preferably 0.25
to IMUI. Preferred dosages are:
               -       3.0 M IU/day/patient,
               -       2.5 M IU/day/patient,
               -       2.0 M IU/day/patient,
               -        1.5 M IU/day/patient,
               -        1.0 M IU/day/patient,
               -       0.5 M IU/day/patient,
               -       0.3 MIU/day/ patient
               -       0.1 M IU/day patient,
               -       0.05 M IU/day patient,
               -       0.02 M IU/day patient, or
               -       0.01 M IU/day patient.
These dosages may be combined, depending on the subject and evolution of the disease.
Treatment may be provided as courses of several days, e.g., 1-7 days of daily administration,
preferably between 3 to 5 days. Such treatment courses may be reproduced at different time
periods, interrupted by periods with no treatment. In a preventive setting, IL-2 may be
administered at the above dosage in single shots, at different time intervals, e.g., once a week
over long periods of time. Different protocols may be adjusted depending on the patient and
disease.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 19
Maintenance dosage can be administered from two to eight weeks after the initiating cycle is
completed. Preferably the maintenance dose is the same as the initiating dose.
Determination of dosage :
Generally speaking, IL-2 may be administered at a dose of D/10 to 20xD, preferably D/5 to
10xD, wherein D is the minimal dose triggering induction of expression of CD25 in Treg,
without inducing expansion of Treg.
This method for determining the appropriate low-dose of IL-2 is particularly useful when a
route of administration different from the subcutaneous route is contemplated.
Especially such dosage may be useful in oral, nasal or rectal delivery.
Determination of CD25 levels can be accomplished using anti-CD25 antibodies in flow
cytometry.
In this regard, lymphocyte-containing samples may be fixed with a suitable fixing agent (e.g.
paraformaldehyde, which may be used at 1% in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS)) to permit
the subsequent quantification or qualitative determination of the cell surface marker (e.g. by
the use of flow cytometry) as convenient (e.g. following transport from the site of collection
and culture of the lymphocyte-containing                    sample, to a flow cytometry laboratory).
Commercially available Anti-CD25 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) labeled to different
fluorochrome such as Alexa488 (Molecular Probes, Oregon, USA) and FITC (Sigma) are
available.
Examples of dose and administration schedules are given below.
Treatment of type 1 diabetes
Type 1 diabetes (TID) is due to the auto immune destruction of the insulin-producing cells in
the pancreas. In many patients a defect in the IL-2/IL-2 receptor activation pathway can be
found. Furthermore, IL-2 can prevent the occurrence of type 1 diabetes in mouse models of
TID (NOD mice) and that IL-2 given very early after the onset of diabetes can reverse
diabetes.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        -20
However, the occurrence of new onset of TID has been described in patients with cancer
treated with low dose of IL-2. Therefore the treatment of human T ID patients with IL-2 is not
straightforward and no one had yet started such a treatment with IL-2 alone. Example 2 shows
the first results in a double blinded trial in TiD patients administered with low dose IL-2
(0.33, 1 or 3 MIU/day) during 5 days.
The inventors thus now disclose a method to 1) prevent and 2) treat TiD using low dose of
IL-2, especially recent onset TiD.
Interleukin-2 is particularly recommended in a subject at risk of developing type I diabetes. In
that case, the treatment with IL-2 is preventive of onset of the diabetes in said subject. In the
setting of prevention, patient at risk of TiD (i.e. patients from family with a history of TiD or
patient with genetic polymorphism of the IL-2/IL-2 receptor activation pathway associated
with higher frequency of TiD, and/or patients in whom auto-antibodies against antigens such
as insulin, GAD, insulinomaassociated protein 2 (IA2), and tyrosine phosphatase or zinc
transporter 8 (ZnT8) (or antibodies that have been associated with TiD) have been detected)
are treated with low doses IL-2, thereby preventing the activation of the effector T cells that
will generate T ID.
In this setting, the treatment uses doses of IL-2 equal or below 3 M IU/day, or even in a
preferred embodiment below 1 or 0.5 M IU per day, and the treatment is administered once
every two weeks, or preferably once every 3 weeks or preferably once every month.
Treatment can be adjusted (dose or schedule) based on Treg proportion and function.
In another particular embodiment, a preferred candidate treat shows an underproduction of
IL-2, and a residual production of insulin.
Indeed, in the therapeutic setting, our preferred use is for patients just diagnosed with TiD
who are known to still have a remaining mass of insulin-producing cells in the pancreas. In a
particular embodiment, Interleukin 2 in this setting can be given at a dose of 3 million units
per day for 3 to 7 days and then additional IL-2 courses can be given at least once a month as
described above. Treatment can be adjusted (dose or schedule) based on Treg proportion and
function.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 21
In a preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a dose of
about 0.2MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3 consecutive
days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed by a
maintenance dose of about 0.2MUI/m 2 after one to three weeks, which maintenance dose can
be repeated every one to three weeks. In a preferred aspect, the subject is an adult that is
administered with about 0.3MUI as the daily dose of 0.2MUI/m 2 .
In another preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a
dose of about 0.6MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3
consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed
by a maintenance dose of about 0.6MUI/m 2 after two to 4 weeks, which maintenance dose can
be repeated every two to four weeks. In a preferred aspect, the subject is an adult that is
administered with about IMUI as the daily dose of 0.6MUI/m 2 .
In still another preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a
dose of about 1.8MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3
consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed
by a maintenance dose of about 1.8MUI/m                      2 after about one to two months, which
maintenance dose can be repeated every one to two months. In a preferred aspect, the subject
is an adult that is administered with about 3MUI as the daily dose of 1.8MUIm 2.
The subcutaneous route is preferred.
Treatment and prevention of multiple sclerosis relapse.
Patient with multiple sclerosis (MS) can be treated with IL-2 to prevent or treat relapses.
Patient with multiple sclerosis are prone to have relapse.
In a preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a dose of
about 0.2MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3 consecutive
days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed by a

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 22
maintenance dose of about 0.2MUI/m 2 after one to three weeks, which maintenance dose can
be repeated every one to three weeks. In a preferred aspect, the subject is an adult that is
administered with about 0.3MUI as the daily dose of 0.2MUI/m 2 .
In another preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a
dose of about 0.6MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3
consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed
by a maintenance dose of about 0.6MUI/m 2 after two to 4 weeks, which maintenance dose can
be repeated every two to four weeks. In a preferred aspect, the subject is an adult that is
administered with about IMUI as the daily dose of 0.6MUI/m 2 .
In still another preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a
dose of about 1.8MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3
consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed
by a maintenance dose of about 1.8MUI/m                      2 after about one to two months, which
maintenance dose can be repeated every one to two months. In a preferred aspect, the subject
is an adult that is administered with about 3MUI as the daily dose of 1.8MUIm 2.
In a particular setting of prevention according to this invention, a MS patient is treated with
low doses IL-2 to prevent relapses. In this setting, the treatment uses doses of IL-2 equal or
below 3 M IU/day, or even in a preferred embodiment below 1.5 M IU per day, and the
treatment is administered once every two weeks, or preferably once every 3 weeks or
preferably once every month. Treatment can be adjusted (dose or schedule) based on Treg
proportion and function.
In the therapeutic setting, a MS patient undergoing a relapse can be given IL-2 at a dose of 3
million units per day for 5 to 7 days and then additional IL-2 courses can be given once a
month as describe above. Treatment can be adjusted (dose or schedule) based on Treg
proportion and function.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 23
Preventionand treatment of atherosclerosis
Exemples (non limiting) of uses are 1) for patients with moderate atherosclerosis, i.e. non
symptomatic arterial stenosis who can receive monthly injection of low dose of IL-2 to
prevent worsening of the condition; 2) for patients with aortic aneurysm who can receive
monthly injection of low dose of IL-2 to prevent progressive increase of aneurysm size and
worsening of the condition; 3) for patients with coronary or peripheral artery stenosis treated
by angioplasty with/without stenting, to reduce inflammation and the risk of restenosis, IL-2
at a dose of 3 million units per day for 5 to 7 days and then additional IL-2 courses once a
month; 4) after arterial bypass surgery to reduce inflammation and risk of restenosis, IL-2 at a
dose of 3 million units per day for 5 to 7 days and then additional IL-2 courses once a month.
In a preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a dose of
about 0.2MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3 consecutive
days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed by a
maintenance dose of about 0.2MUI/m 2 after one to three weeks, which maintenance dose can
be repeated every one to three weeks. In a preferred aspect, the subject is an adult that is
administered with about 0.3MUI as the daily dose of 0.2MUI/m 2 .
In another preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a
dose of about 0.6MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3
consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed
by a maintenance dose of about 0.6MUI/m 2 after two to 4 weeks, which maintenance dose can
be repeated every two to four weeks. In a preferred aspect, the subject is an adult that is
administered with about IMUI as the daily dose of 0.6MUI/m 2 .
In still another preferred embodiment, the treatment comprises at least a first course wherein a
dose of about 1.8MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during at least 3
consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably 4 to 5 consecutive days, followed
by a maintenance dose of about 1.8MUI/m                      2 after about one to two months, which

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 24
maintenance dose can be repeated every one to two months. In a preferred aspect, the subject
is an adult that is administered with about 3MUI as the daily dose of 1.8MUIm 2.
Preventionof repeated spontaneous abortion
Some couple experience difficulties in reproduction, with recurrent spontaneous abortion
which are considered of immunological origin.
In a mouse model of recurrent abortion we have shown that administration of IL-2 prior to
mating allow normal pregnancy outcome.
In female patients with recurrent spontaneous abortion, IL-2 can be given prior to a
programmed conception or implantation of embryos obtained by in vitro fertilisation, to favor
fetus implantation. As an exemple, IL-2 courses of 3 M IU per day for 5 days can be given a
month to one week prior to a scheduled mating or implantation.
Preventionof cell or organ rejection
After transplantation of potentially immunogenic allogenic cells or tissues or cell genetically
modified with transgene, the administration of IL-2 according to this invention can be used to
reduce the rejection rate.
Additional examples of Regimen for controllingflare:
- Continuous 24 h infusion for 5 to 7 days at 0.1 to 3.5 or 3 M IU/day
- Repeated dosing once daily for 5 to 30 days at daily dosage from 0.1 to 3.5 or 3 M IU/day
- Repeated dosing once every two days for 15 to 30 days at daily dosage from 0.1 to 3.5 or 3
M IU/day
- Repeated dosing once daily for 3 consecutive days in a week during 2 to 4 consecutive
weeks at daily dosage from 0.1 to 3.5 M or 3 IU/day
Examples of Regimen for maintenance and/orprevention:

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 25
- Repeated dosing daily for one to seven day in a week every two to six weeks at daily dosage
from 0.1 to 3.5 or 3 M IU/day
- Repeated dosing once daily for 5 to 30 days every 3 to 6 month at daily dosage from 0.1 to
3.5 or 3 M IU/day
- Repeated dosing once daily for 5 to 30 days once a year at daily dosage from 0.1 to 3.5 or 3
M IU/day.
- Repeated dosing once daily for 1 to 3 days, every 1 to 3 months, at daily dosage from 0.1 to
3.5 or 3 M IU/day.
- Maintenance dosing at 0.01 to 1 M IU/day, 1 day every weeks
The need for administering multiple cycles of a constant IL-2 dosing regimen or multiple
cycles of a multi-level IL-2 dosing regimen is at the discretion of the managing physician and
can be assessed by monitoring Treg cells in subjects undergoing treatment with the method of
the invention.
In a preferred embodiment, in a patient with autoimmune disease, it is best to reach and/or
maintain the Tregs percent level between 5-10% total T cells.
In a preventive setting, it is desirable to reach and/or maintain Tregs percent level between
4.5-7% total T cells.
IL-2 doses may be adapted according to patients' response, i.e. the effects on Treg percentage
and their activation status (CD25).
It is thus described a method for determining whether a IL-2 regimen or dose has to be
modified in a patient with an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory disorder,
treated with IL-2, which method comprises monitoring the quantity of Tregs and/or CD25
expression level in Tregs.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        -26
A quantity of Tregs and/or CD25 expression level in Tregs inferior to the control value,
means that the dose of IL-2 is to be increased. The control value is generally the baseline
quantity of Tregs and/or CD25 expression level in the patient, before any treatment.
In a particular embodiment, such quantification can be conducted when the treatment is
initiated (e.g. between 3 to 5 days after the first administration). If Tregs percentages or CD25
expression levels are below a 20% increase compared to baseline, the dose of IL-2 can be
increased (e.g. x2) and the process repeated until a dose (below 3,5 MIU/day) inducing proper
Treg response is found.
Preferably this method is also conducted during the maintenance period, which involves
quantifying the number of Tregs and/or the expression level of CD25 in Tregs every 2 to 6
months, preferably between 1 to 5 days after administration of IL-2. If Tregs percentages or
CD25 expression levels are below a 20% increase compared to baseline, the dose of IL-2
could be increased (e.g. x2).
Administration forms and routes
11-2 may be administered using any acceptable method known per se in the art. Thus, for
example, IL-2, or the pharmaceutical composition comprising IL-2, can be administered by
any form of injection, including intravenous (IV), intramuscular (IM), or transdermal or
subcutaneous (SC) injection, or by oral or nasal route as well as by topical administration
(cream, droplets, etc.). In a particular embodiment of the invention, IL-2 is used as a
sustained-release formulation, or a formulation that is administered using a sustained release
device. Such devices are well known in the art, and include, for example, transdermal patches,
and miniature implantable pumps that can provide for drug delivery over time in a
continuous, steady-state fashion at a variety of doses to achieve a sustained-release effect.
Sublingual or eye drop formulations may also be contemplated.

C \Interwoven\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_I.docx-I7 07/2018
                                                         - 27
IL-2 is typically administered in association (e.g., in solution, suspension, or admixture) with
a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle, carrier or excipient. Suitable excipients include any
isotonic solution, saline solution, buffered solution, slow release formulation, etc. Liquid,
lyophilized, or spray-dried compositions comprising IL-2 or variants thereof are known in the
art and may be prepared as aqueous or nonaqueous solutions or suspensions.
Preferably the pharmaceutical compositions comprise appropriate stabilizing agents, buffering
agents, bulking agents, or combinations thereof to minimize problems associated with loss of
protein stability and biological activity during preparation and storage.
A buffering agent may be used to maintain pH of the liquid composition within an acceptable
range for stability of IL-2. The buffering agent may be an acid such as e.g., succinic acid,
citric acid, phosphoric acid, and glutamic acid.
Examples of suitable bulking agents include e.g., glycine, mannitol, or valine, or any
combination thereof.
Examples of inert carriers which may be used as stabilizing agents include sugars (e.g.,
sucrose, glucose, dextrose) and sugar alcohols, as well as amino acids.
The pharmaceutical composition may additionally incorporate other stabilizing agents, such
as methionine, a nonionic surfactant such as polysorbate 80, etc.
Specific examples of IL-2 formulations are described [10] and in US4,604,377.
Where IL-2 is in monomeric form, it is preferred to add to the compositions an amino acid
base sufficient to decrease aggregation of IL-2 during storage. The amino acid base can be an
amino acid or a combination of amino acids, where any given amino acid is present either in
its free base form or in its salt form. Examples of such amino acids include arginine, lysine,
and aspartic acid.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        -28
In a particular embodiment, the composition comprises a multimeric IL-2, for example
lyophilized.
A specific example of such a composition is ProleukinR IL-2. This lyophilized formulation
comprises selectively oxidized, recombinant IL-2 admixed with a water soluble carrier, such
as mannitol, that provides bulk, and SDS to ensure solubility of IL-2 in water. This
composition is suitable for reconstitution in aqueous solutions for parenteral injection.
Packaging
The current packaging of IL-2 is vials containing 18 M IU of IL-2. Given the low dose to be
used, packaging for dose of 0.01M IU, 0.02M IU, 0.5M IU O.1M IU, 0.2M IU, 0.5M IU, IM
IU and 3, or 3.5M IU are preferably prepared.
A specific object of this invention therefore also resides in a pharmaceutical composition
comprising a unit dose of 3 M IU IL-2, or less. The composition may be in a vial, capsule,
syringue, etc.
Treatment of Autoimmune and inflammatory diseases
The invention may be used for the treatment of any condition associated to or caused by an
undesirable immune response and/or in which a Treg quantitative or qualitative defect has
been described. Examples of such diseases include autoimmune diseases, inflammatory
diseases (including any human disease in which an inflammation process plays an important
role), as well as immune-related diseases.
The treatment may be curative or preventive. In a particular embodiment, the treatment is
curative, i.e., concerns a subject in whom the disease is declared, even at very early stages. In
such patients, the treatment aims at reducing or stopping disease progression and/or
suppressing disease symptoms or causes. The treatment may lead to complete disappearance
of disease in the patient, as illustrated in the examples.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                                       - 29
The treatment may be preventive, i.e., in patients not having declared a disease or in patients
in remission of a disease to prevent relapses, such as in the case of multiple sclerosis. In such
patients, the treatment aims at maintaining an elevated level of Tregs and/or reducing
inflammation in order to avoid development of a disease caused by undesirable immune
reaction.
Treatment designates any improvement in the patient condition, such as a reduced pain, a
reduced tissue injury, etc.
A Treg defect has been reported in various autoimmune human diseases, and the invention is
particularly suited for treating inflammatory or autoimmune diseases, including without
limitation HCV-related                              vasculitis, uveitis, myositis, type I diabetes, systemic  lupus
erythematous, systemic vasculitis, psoriasis, allergy, asthma, Crohn's disease, multiple
sclerosis,              rheumathoid                 arthritis, atherosclerosis, autoimmune  thyroid  disease,  auto
inflammatory diseases, neuro-degenerative diseases, Alzeihmer disease, graft-versus-host
disease, spontaneous abortion and allograft rejection. The invention may be used as an
adjunct treatment for inflammatory infection-related pathologies such as Chagas disease,
Leishmaniasis, Helicobacter pylori infection, chronic viral hepatitis (B, C, D), HIV, HTLV,
Malaria, Amoebiasis, or Shigellosis, all characterized by a high degree of inflammation or
conditions involving an inflammtory component affecting the therapy such as post-surgical
local inflammation.
Chronic HCV infection is uniquely associated with an array of extrahepatic complications,
which pathogenic mechanisms appear to be largely immunologically driven. Among these,
cryoglobulinaemia and its clinical sequelae hold the strongest association. Cryoglobulins are
readily detectable in 40-60% of HCV-infected patients [11, 20, 21, 22] whereas overt
cryoglobulinaemia vasculitis (mixed cryoglobulinaemia: MC) develops in only 5-10% of the
cases [11]. The most frequent target organs are skin, joints, nerves and kidney. The disease
expression is variable, ranging from mild clinical symptoms (purpura, arthralgia) to fulminant
life-threatening complications (glomerulonephritis, widespread vasculitis). The observation of

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 30
T cells in vascular infiltrates, the presence of autoantibodies and the observation that some
HLA groups confer susceptibility to MC in HCV-infected patients support the autoimmune
nature of this virus-linked pathology [12, 13]. MC pathophysiology appears to result from the
interaction between HCV and lymphocytes, which directly modulates B- and T-cell function
and results in polyclonal activation and expansion of B cell producing IgM with rheumatoid
factor (RF) activity [23]. We previously reported that Tregs are significantly reduced in HCV
MC patients [12, 14, 15]. Moreover, in MC patients that could be succesfully treated for
HCV, virus clearance was associated vasculitis cure and Treg recovery.
The experiental section reports the results of a phase I/Ila study designed to assess the safety,
immunological effects and clinical efficacy of repeated administration of low-dose IL-2
therapy in HCV-infected patients with associated autoimmunity. We show that low-dose IL-2
is well tolerated, induces a dramatic and selective increase in Treg cells, and leads to clinical
improvement in all patients treated. This is the first demonstration of in vivo Treg induction
and recovery after IL-2 immunotherapy in a human autoimmune disease.
As reported in the examples, the treatment was well tolerated and did not induce effector T
cells activation, vasculitis flare or increased HCV viremia. Low-dose IL-2 dramatically
increased the proportions of CD4+CD25hiCD127-Foxp3+ Tregs with potent supressive
activity in all patients, and concommitantly decreased marginal zone B cells proportions.
Transcriptome studies of peripheral blood mononuclear cells showed that IL-2 induced a
global atenuation of inflammatory/oxidative stress mediators. Reduced cryoglobulinemia
and/or clinical improvement of the vasculitis were observed in 90% (9/10) and 80% (8/10) of
patients, respectively.
This is the first demonstration of Treg cell recovery and clinical improvement after a well
tolerated low-dose IL-2 immunotherapy in a human autoimmune disease. It paves the way for
a broader use of IL-2 for treating inflammatory and autoimmune diseases.
Other diseases include:

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                                   -31
         -     Systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) (choc) (adjuvant);
         -     Liver graft - neoadjuvant and adjuvant therapy for prevention of inflammatory hepatic
               fibrosis - treating donor and/or recipient for improved graft control
         -     Liver cirrhosis -for                     prevention of inflammatory hepatic fibrosis and related
               complications
         -     Auto-inflammatory systemic diseases - reduction or prevention of inflammatory
               reaction with clinical/biological flares
         -     Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) (adjuvant)
         -     Acute pancreatitis - reduction of inflammatory reaction and secondary necrosis
         -     Vascular surgery - stent - prevention of stent occlusion by preventing inflammatory
               reaction to stent insertion
         -     Improvement of cardiac remodelling following cardiac infarction
         -     Orthopaedic surgery - reduction of inflammatory reaction following OS
         -     Odontology - treatment of parodonditis
         -     Still disease
         -     Psychiatry: Depression
The following examples are given for purposes of illustration and not by way of limitation.

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_l.docx-17 07/2018
                                                            - 32
                                                           EXAMPLES
EXAMPLE 1: Low-dose IL-2 in HCV-related vasculitis
Here, we provide the first biological evidence in human subjects that IL-2 can be used under
conditions that induce Tregs without inducing Teffs in patients with auto-immunity. We
report here the first demonstration of in vivo expansion of very potent supressive Treg
through IL-2 immunotherapy in a human autoimmune                                 disease, leading to clinical
improvement. The primary end point of our study, increased Treg at the end of IL-2 therapy,
and all secondary end points, including the clinical response were all met. We show that low
dose IL-2 is well tolerated, induces a dramatic and selective increase in Treg cells, and leads
to clinical improvement in 80% of the patients. This is the first demonstration of in vivo Tregs
induction and recovery after IL-2 immunotherapy in a human autoimmune disease.
Furthermore, we show for the first time a marked anti-inflamatory effect of low-dose IL-2 in
humans.
METHODS
Patients
Inclusion criteria for the study were as follows: 1) chronic active HCV infection defined by a
positive HCV RNA; 2) a history of MC vasculitis defined by the (i) presence of serum
cryoglobulin                  0.05g/l in at least two determinations and(ii) the presence of the triad purpura
arthralgia-asthenia or (iii) biopsy proven vasculitis (kidney, nerve or skin) in the absence of
purpura [16, 17]; 3) presence at inclusion of a clinically active vasculitis with resistance or
intolerance to conventional therapies, i.e. antiviral therapy (Peg-Interferon-at and ribavirin)
and/or Rituximab; 5) a minimum of 6 or 2 months after discontinuing Rituximab or antiviral
therapy, respectively.
Exclusion criteria included co-infection with hepatitis B virus or HIV, liver cirrhosis, cancer
or lymphoma, any immunosuppressant use in the last 6 months, drug addiction, alcohol abuse
or pregnancy.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 33
Study design
We conducted a monocenter open prospective phase I/II trial. Four cycles of 5-days
subcutaneous IL-2 therapy were administered. The first cure was carried out at the dose of
1.5 millions IU/day during a one week hospitalization to evaluate tolerance. Based on
satisfactoryly tolerance, the 3 later cures were done ambulatory at the dose of 3 millions
IU/day.The second cure was started after a 10-day washout, while the folowing 2 cures after
a 17-day wahsout period. The study was approved by institutional ethics committee
andinformed consent was obtained from all patients.
Patients were evaluated on day-i and day-5 of each cure, prior to the first and last IL-2
administration of that cure. They were also evaluated 48 to 90 days after the last IL-2
administration.
The response to treatment was analysed by comparing clinical, immunologic, and virologic
parameters at the initial evaluation, at the end of each course of IL-2 (at weeks 1, 3, 6 and 9)
and at the end of follow-up. Clinical response was defined by analysing the progression of the
following main clinical signs: skin involvement (absence of purpura and/or leg ulcer),
peripheral neuropathy (clinical and electrophysiologic improvement on two successive
examinations), renal involvement (normalization of serum creatinine level and disappearance
of proteinuria and/or hematuria), and absence of arthralgia.
The primary end point was a 4% absolute increase of CD4+CD25Foxp3 regulatoryT cell
(Treg) proportion at the end of IL-2 therapy (i.e. at W9). Secondary end points included
safety, evaluation of celullar and humoral immunity at W9, persistent increase of Treg levels
at distance from treatment (W19) and evaluation of clinical response of the vasculitis.
Flow cytometric analysis
The immunomonitoring was performed according to previously published routine methods
used in the Piti6-Salp6triere Biotherapy department.
Briefly, peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) subsets (CD3,                CD4+, CD8+ T
lymphocytes, CD19+ B lymphocytes and CD3-CD56+ NK cell) counts (cells/ l) were
established from fresh blood samples using CYTO-STAT tetraCHROME kits with Flowcount
fluorescents beads as internal standard and tetra CXP software with a FC500 cytometer

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                             - 34
according to manufacturer's instructions (Beckman Coulter, Villepinte, France). Subsets of
these cells were analysed using multicolour flow cytometry and mAbs directly conjugated to
various fluorescent markers. Cells acquisition and analysis by flow cytometry were performed
using a FC500 Cytometer (Beckman Coulter). Instrument setting parameters                    (gains,
compensations, and threshold) were set with machine software (CXP Software; Beckman
Coulter) in conjunction with calibration beads (Flow-set beads, Cytocomp kit, and CYTO
TROL Control Cells). Machine reproducibility was verified with standardized beads (Flow
check). Data were analyzed with CXP analysis software (Beckman Coulter).
Subsets of these cells were analysed using multicolour flow cytometry and mAbs directly
conjugated either to Fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC), Phycoerythrin (PE), Phycoerythrin
Texas Red (ECD), Allophycocyanin (APC) or phycoerythrin-Cyanyn 7 (PE-Cya7) were used
for: CD3-ECD or -PC7, CD4-ECD or -PC7, CD8-PC7, CD8-APC, CD14-PE, CD16-FITC,
CD19-ECD, CD28-FITC, CD45RA-APC, CD45RO-FITC, CD56-PE CD69-PE, CD152-PE
and HLA-DR-PC7 all from Beckman Coulter (Villepinte, France). CD25-PE, CD25APC,
CD27-PE, CD62L-FITC and IgD-FITC, were from BD Biosciences (Le Pont De Claix,
France). CD127 was from e-Biosciences (San Diego, CA, USA), and glucocorticoid-induced
tumour necrosis factor-related protein (GITR)-PE from Miltenyi Biothech (Paris, France).
Latency-associated peptide (LAP)-PE and CCR7-PE antibodies were from R&D Systems
(Abingdon, UK). Intracellular CD152 labelling was performed using Fix and Perm reagent
from Invitrogen (Cergy Pontoise, France) after after CD3, CD4, CD127 and CD25 membrane
staining. Matched mouse isotype control antibodies were used. Intranuclear FOXP3 labeling
was performed after CD3, CD4, CD127 and CD25 membrane staining using APC anti-human
Foxp3 kit (PCH101 clone, eBiosciences) according to manufacturer's instructions. Rat IGg2a
APC was used as isotypic control (eBiosciences,).
Cells acquisition and analysis by flow cytometry were performed using a FC500 Cytometer
(Beckman Coulter). Instrument setting parameters (gains, compensations, and threshold) were
set with machine software (CXP Software; Beckman Coulter) in conjunction with calibration
beads (Flow-set                      beads, Cytocomp    kit, and CYTO-TROL Control Cells). Machine
reproducibility was verified with standardized beads (Flow-check). Data were analyzed with
CXP analysis software and Kaluza software (Beckman Coulter)

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                                   - 35
For detection of intracellular cytokine production, PBMC were stimulated with 50 ng/ml
PMA and 1 mM ionomycin in the presence of Golgi-Stop (BD Biosciences) for 4 hr and then
stained with anti-IFN-g-FITC (eBioscience), or anti-IL-17-Alexa Fluor 647 (e-Bioscience)
after fixation and permeabilization, according to the manufacturer's instructions.
Suppression T cell Assays
Cells suppression assay was performed as previously described. Briefly, PBMC were stained
with appropriate combinations of mAbs in order to purify by flow cytometer (FACS Aria, BD
Biosciences) CD3+CD4+CD25+CD127low/- cells namely FACS-sorted Treg. To test their
suppressive activity, Treg were assayed in round-bottomed 96-well tissue culture plates
mixed at various cell ratios (1/1; 1/2; 1/4; 1/8; 1/16) with 5 x 104 autologous Facs-sorted
CD4+CD25- cells as responder cells in the presence of 104 irradiated (15 grays) allogeneic
PBMC as stimulator cells in 200 pL of complete culture medium. . Triplicates were
performed for each culture condition. After 4 days, cell proliferation was determined by
incorporation of 1 pCi (0.037 MBq) of 3H-thymidine (Amersham, Buckinghamshire, UK) for
an additional 16 h and measured using a p-counter (counter-WALLAC). Results were
expressed in counts per minute (cpm) and percentage of suppression of proliferation was
determined by proliferation of effector cells without treg / proliferation of effector cells with
treg ratio.
Transcriptome studies
RNAs were generated using RNeasy Mini Kit (QIAGEN, requis, CA) according to the
manufacturer's instructions. RNA integrity was assessed using an Agilent Bioanalyser
showing a quality of RNA integrity number of 7-9.5 (Agilent Technologies). RNA yield was
assessed using a NanoDrop 1000 spectrophotometer (NanoDrop Products, Thermo Fisher
Scientific).
Total RNA was amplified                                 and converted to biotinylated cRNA according to the
manufacturer's protocol (Illumina TotalPrep RNA Amplification Kit; Ambion).
Labelled cRNA were hybridized overnight to Illumina Human HT-12 V3 BeadChip arrays
(Illumina), which contained more than 48,000 probes. The arrays were then washed, blocked,
stained and scanned on an Illumina BeadStation following the manufacturer's protocols.

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        - 36
Illumina BeadStudio software (Illumina) was used to generate signal intensity values from the
scans.
Data were normalized according to the quantiles method and supervised hierarchical
clustering was performed on 435 selected transcripts that were significantly modulated after
treatment in at least 3 out of 6 patients. Modulation threshold ratios were set up at 0.6 and 1.5
for down and up-regulated transcripts respectively. One patient presenting too divergent
modulation profiles from the others was excluded from the clustering analysis. Gene
signatures were analyzed to generate functional networks using the PredictSearchTM software
(Prediguard), a datamining bioinformatic solution dedicated to identify relevant correlations
between genes and concepts, was used to generate functional networks. This tool is daily
updated with the whole NCBI Pubmed database and seeks for relevant correlations between
gene-gene or gene-concept within abstracts cocitations.
Correlations are also retrieved from the crosscomparison to the whole set (>18000) of
transcriptional signatures deposited in NCBI GEO database and extracted with the DBF-MCL
algorithm using TranscriptomeBrowser tool. Furthermore PredictSearchTM allows the
annotation of modulated genes according to KEGG and Biocarta pathways as well as to GO
ontology.
For unsupervised analyses, potential molecular signatures were extracted using unsupervised
Independent Component Analysis (ICA). Those signatures were added to the Gene Set
Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) signature database and tested for their significance on our
microarray data using GSEA software. GSEA leading edges of statistically significant
molecular signatures (FDR q.value<0.05) were annotated for their GO terms and KEGG
pathways enrichment. Signatures with enrichment for GO terms related to inflammation,
immune response and autoimmune pathologies were selected. A Khi2 test was used to
determine whether these selected signatures were preferentially up- or down-regulated in IL
2-treated samples as compared to the overall distribution of up- or down-regulated signatures.
Statistical analyses
A sample size of 10 patients achieves 94% power to detect a mean of paired differences of
4% with an estimated standard deviation of differences of 3% and with a significance level

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        -37
(alpha) of 0.05 using a two-sided Wilcoxon signed rank test, assuming that the actual
distribution of the percentage of CD4+CD25Foxp3 regulatory T cell is normal.
Comparisons of baseline with W9 or Post-IL-2 measures were done with the Wilcoxon signed
rank test. The F approximation of the Friedman test was used to compare across all repeated
measurements [24]. Approximations of the critical region of the Friedman statistic and
multiple comparisons were performed where appropriate [25].
Time-to-peak values (Tmax) were determined directly from the experimental data as the time
of maximum Treg percentage (Emax).
RESULTS
Patients
Ten patients were included (Table-1). At inclusion, the median (Q1-Q3) age was 58.5 (49.5
66.2) years with a 50/50% male to female ratio. Clinical manifestations of MC vasculitis
included peripheral neuropathy (n=8), purpura (n=8), asthenia (n=6), arthralgia (n=3) and
kidney involvement (n=1) [daily proteinuria 1.5g, microscopic hematuria and creatininemia
74pmol/L]. The median (Q1-Q3) cryoglobulin level was 0.53 (0.26-2.77) g/L, of type 11 IgM
Kappa in all cases. The median (Q1-Q3) C4 complement factor level was 0.065 (0.02-0.16)
mg/L, rheumatoid factor activity was present in 90% of cases and antinuclear antibodies
were positive in one patient (at a 1/640 titer). The median HCV viral load was 6.25 (5.5-6.8)
Log copies/mL; no patients had liver cirrhosis.
Safety of low dose IL-2
Compliance to treatment was good and all patients completed all 4 courses of IL-2. IL-2 was
clinically and biologically well tolerated (Table-1). No significant changes in granulocytes,
red blood cells, or liver enzymes were observed throughout the study. Only minor clinical
grade 1 side effects were noted and spontaneously resolutive, including asthenia (n=4),
transient local reactions at injection sites (n= 4), flu-like syndrome (n=4), myalgia (n=1) and
hypertension (n=1). Notably, none of these occurred at the lowest, 1.5 million IU/day, IL-2
dosage (Table-1). During the entire treatment and follow-up, there were no biological or

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                        -38
clinical signs indicating activation of pathogenic T cells: no vasculitis flare was noted;
lymphoid organ examination did not show abnormality suggestive of lymphoproliferative
disorder induction; no increase in HCV viral load was observed (Table-i & Fig-iA).
Biological and clinical efficacy of low dose IL-2 on HCV-MC
The HCV viral load continuously decreased during the IL-2 treatment period and was
significantly lower at W9 (p=0.02), in the absence of any antiviral treatment. Cryoglobulin
serum levels, which also continuously decreased (P=0.014, at W9), were already decreased
(P=0.003) while C4 inversely increased (P=0.027) after the first 1.5m IU IL-2 course (Fig-1).
No patient developed antinuclear antibodies over IL-2 therapy and antinuclear antibodies
diseappeared in patient #1.
In agreement with the improved biological parameters of HCV-MC vasculitis (Fig-1), 8 out
of 10 patients showed marked clinical improvement following IL-2 therapy, with
disappearance of purpura and arthralgia (8/8 and 3/3 patients, respectively). Kidney
parameters normalized (daily proteinuria <0.3g and absence of hematuria) in patient #10. The
only patients who did not have a marked clinical response were those who presented with
only a neuropathy at the time of inclusion (n=2).
Low dose IL-2 induces a dramatic increase of CD4+ and CD8+ regulatory T cells
IL-2 induced a dramatic increase in circulating CD4+CD25 hiCD127Foxp3+ Tregs (Fig-2A
and Fig-3). The baseline percentage of Tregs in this group of patients was of 3.6%± 0.23
(mean +/- sem), significantly lower than normal values (4.6±0.6) in agreement with our
previously reported studies. At W9, Treg proportions were of 11.8% ±1.96 (P=0.004),
reaching our primary efficacy criteria endpoint. Noteworthy, Treg proportions were already
increased approximately 2-fold after the first 5-day course of 1.5 million IU of IL-2 (Fig-2A).
Treg proportions continued to increase during the wash-out period between courses, and were
further boosted by the subsequent courses (Fig-2A). Compared to baseline values, these
increased Treg proportions were statistically significant throughout treatment (P=0.016 at WI

C \Inerwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                       - 39
and P<0.001 at W3, 6 and 9). The median peak value of Tregs proportion (Emax= 14%) was
reached at the end of the third IL-2 course (median Temax= 2.9), corresponding to an increase
of 10.3 % compared to baseline (Emax minus Baseline) or corresponding to a 350% increase
of Tregs (Emax/Baseline). At distance (129 to 150 days) from the treatment, Treg proportion
remained significantly elevated, at twice the baseline value (6.1% ± 0.51, P=0.008), in the
range of values for normal blood donors. Finally, we evaluated the functionality of the the IL
2 expanded Tregs and found that they were highly suppressive (Fig-4).
A population of rare CD8+CD25 hiFoxp3 T cells with supressor function can be detected in
normal individuals |26] (Fig-5). We monitored these cells during the IL-2 treatment and
observed their marked increase, concomitant to the CD4+ Treg increase. Following the first
course their proportion increased by aproximately 500% and it remained elevated throuhgout
treatment (Fig-2A, Table-2). Altogether, the increase of CD4+ and CD8+ Tregs leads to a
striking increase in the global Treg/Teff ratio, with no modification of the CD4/CD8 ratio
(Fig-2B, Table-2).
Total B cell numbers decreased during IL-2 treatment, immediately after the first course, and
then recovered at distance from therapy. This decrease particularly affected the IgD+CD27
marginal zone B cells that are implicated in the vasculitis pathophysiology [27] (Fig-2C, Fig
6). In contrast, there was a significant increase in numbers of NK cells, which was already
detected following the first IL-2 course, and showed a clear tendency to continuous increase
over time; this rapidly ceased after IL-2 discontinuation. There was notably a specific increase
of the CD 5 6bright NK cells that produce high levels of immunoregulatory cytokines and are
poorly cytotoxic (Fig-2D, Table-2).
Low dose IL-2 induces a global decrease of inflammation revealed by transcriptome analyses
of PBMCs
We analysed the transcriptome of PBMCs before and after IL-2 course (Fig-3. We first
performed a supervised analysis, comparing directly the two sets of data and looking for
genes that are up- or down-regulated between the two conditions. This study first confirmed

C \Interwoen\NRPortbl\DCCAAR\17360578_i.docx-17 07 2018
                                                                 - 40
the phenotypic observations, showing increased expression of genes related to Treg and NK
cell function, together with a decreased expression of genes related to B cell function (not
shown). Hierarchical clustering and data mining approaches revealed a striking decrease in
the expression of genes associated with inflammatory/oxidative stress mediators (Fig-7A).
The NFKB pathway appears crucially involved in this regulation (Fig-7B). We confirmed
these results by an unsupervised (i.e. non hypothesis driven) analysis. In this approach, all the
pre- and post-IL-2 transcriptome data are mixed together, and signatures maximizing the
segregation of the data in independent groups are sought based on Independent Component
Analysis (ICA) [28]. Gene Ontology (GO) terms and pathways (GOTP) are then looked for
among the signatures that differentiated pre- and post-treated groups. The ratio of up- versus
down-regulated GOTP was of 0/251 for Inflammation (p=1,3E-40), 16/684 for Immune
responses               (p=3,4E-94)               and 77/555 for   Lymphocyte Activation (p=7,0E-49)(Fig-3C).
Conversely, we obtained 1701 up- and 208 down-regulated signatures enriched with the
GOTP related to Cell Cycle (p=1,5E-138). Similar analysis with randomly chosen control
terms showed no enrichment.
A similar analysis was then performed on Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes
(KEGG) pathways terms related to autoimmune, inflammatory, and transplantation-related
pathologies and infectious diseases. These signatures were preferentially down-regulated after
IL-2 treatment (p=7.6E-09 and p=7.6E-36, respectively), while control pathologies were not.

                                                                  -41
                          U-          >
                                     Of c
         *     e) tE      2            Z         L0                ~ 00o           LO~         U
                                      - :-            66         66
     a.0
                                                                                                                               0
                                                              >U
   ~co                               co
                          a-C        w'(                                                                      w~o'
         0                  zD                   NC)             q q          6 L6           CD  to
                   E                 L6         C'             0       00
               r-                                                                                              -J
                                                    0)r     - N-             000           co                                  W
4-                 E)                LL         O- OR          66            L)          6 LO)N                              -   F
4-j                                     .                                                                                    L
                                     Of                                                                       i              LL
                                                        a-
     aO.
                                                                                                                               cu
                                                              >                                                                E
         >,                 U-       Of                                        0(              -           '-
                   Ea--                          000
          ~a.a)
                                                              >                                                                E
                                                       oo                                                                      cuN
               0  .            U-                                                                0
=~       t           )                              N-         2(                          CJU                  U-U
dw   iL                   zz-CD
                                             E 66~              66 U       ~ N-U)
                                                -o)            :2 Z0!) )                                      LLJ LL
                   E   (D
                          02~        ~            -             00           I-      )     0
                                                                                                                               0)
>oa                                  a0,
            a       ,                LL =       (q0            0     0          ..                                  L
            a.                        (
                        a)LL
                                     LL
                                          00 (0                                            C~
                        U)E,
                                                          .j
                                            -s                     C:        U.    L                                           C
                                                                                                     0.     '    D     ~                 0D  '
                                             >                                                                       -   ---    -  - - -  -0 V
                               LC 0        >               >        C    -oa,        LM           C               -          L
                                                                          0                         CL 0C~
               co      0j 9                      .>            .      -      .9            .
               0)      E u.)    C    ~     ~                 ~5
                                                           E, W
                                                                         - 5-
                                                                        c-
                                                                         >n
                                                                               ~
                                                                              Wa
                                                                                        m7
                                                                                        --   W
                                                                                                 a
                                                                                                        (
                                                                                                            )
                                                                                                               a
                                                                                                                             L
                    m             0m                            m0       0j            .o                 U.)Ci
                                               000      0           0)).0
                                             0a                                                             0000
                                                             0           L0

                                                          -  42
           co                    co           000                                                 0        4               40
                  C -? )     Iq                             00)    Nt a)-      cq             -           V    C
w   00   c6       co (0          Lo            Nn                       r- c'j       *I C                                           CO4
           U")                 00C)                  Co                        00           c-o          iD           Nt-.
    00oCo          CD04(           CO)    C;)   04    ';                        m9 0 -      00            m Co                           C
0          i"n                                       C)                 C*4      r,.                     c'j                             c'
           C)
           (o           0                 N          0                                      00                             "             0N
                 0                                                             (00          Coio(
    ;-Co     (N    C)       =.     q            _                   a) C ?I  _         C J     L?   co    ~-C?
    0        )                                                     Cn          in
                                                                               V)
cm.
           0N            co)             Co(                                        C)                   (.0
0     (.0         co             i        n
                      o~~Co           Cr)a)          (0(N                                                        )
        CC
                   Co        Co                            CoC)                      *0     C'J     m    C_           iC?
0          C.0                                        C)                                                 CoC
                     Cr)                                                                                 ()
               C     D c (N Co d)                                                              N- m-                   '0     ma"           0
                                              04                         00
                             o                                                                                                        IL
                                                                                                      00
                                     _)                                                                                               0
                                      0t           0                        2,                        a)
                                  0)Co                          Co                                                                    04
         E                                     0               Q
                                                                            0            V)
                                                                                         Q            0
                                                                                                            )
                                                                                                                   N                  0
                     -J        H                  H             C)          Z            C)                        2i             I   C

                                                             -   43
                 (.0              04           -                        0
                      C       C;                                           0
                 C               C                                         04
                                                                           0
                 COC
          6        -     CO
                         C4       C
                                     ob .
                                          ~.  -
                                               C?
                                                               C
                                                                 co
                                                                  ~ -4
             CDC
                                                                              CC
0D   C\J
                 (0
                 0     C*.
                           4      ~    Ui      li C'J.
                                                               COj     C:
                                                                              cu
                                                                                 >
            C'                                         10      C4          c
                                        6~                                       C
                                  C)                                       0_
                                              C                            C'
                         _                   .0
                                    C       C                              0
                 c)              C:            r                       D
                                                                           a)(0
                                                                             U
                                                                          6 cu
                                                                               U
                   0         .4 C       00.4t
C co         CO      *           CD                                    C)
                 C                                                         C
                                                                                 x
                                                                                 0O
                                                                              ~nu
   +
                       xC                                                        C
                                           +                                     U
  U-                          +)          N)
                       +                   +
                                          0Y                       0
       o       0
                       +
                              U")
                               0"
                                                                   +
       04                     +-
                              0)
       o       o                                                                 4.1
                        o                 I-              *n

                                           - 44
EXAMPLE 2: Low-dose IL-2 in Type 1 Diabetes
The inventors initiated an IL-2 dose-finding clinical trial in TID, which aimed to define
the lowest active dose that could safely induce Tregs in adult T ID patients.
The DF-IL2 trial is double blinded, comparing placebo, 0.3, 1 and 3 mIU/day
Proleukin@ doses (cumulative dose of 1.5, 5 and 15 mIU, respectively).
The objective of the trial will be to preserve remaining endogenous insulin secretion in
patients with recently diagnosed TID.
Main patient characteristics: adults, both sexes, TID diagnosis as WHO-ADA, disease
duration since diagnosis of less than 12 weeks at first IL-2 dosing and detectable C
peptide at entry.
The current recommendation for a clinically meaningful effect is to target with the
active treatment at least a preservation of pancreatic P -cell mass, i.e. the maintenance of
C-peptide AUCO-120 compared to baseline.
All 24 patients have been included. Although the investigators are still blind to the IL-2
dose administered, the results obtained so far show that IL-2 is safe (no SAE in any of
the patients). Minor adverse events (mild fever, moderate pain at the injection site...)
have been observed in some patients and based on safety data from our previous clinical
trial40 are most likely related to the dose of 3mIU/day. An interim analysis of the Treg
dynamic for the first 16 patients who have completed their treatment has been
performed by an independent statistician and without un-blinding the study to the
investigators (following authorisation from regulatory authorities). This interim study
shows that (i) IL-2 can indeed induce Tregs in TID patients and (ii) the dose of 1 mIU
per day induces a good Treg response that last over 2 weeks (see Figure 8).
Importantly, it was not detected in patients significant decrease of C-peptide production.
C-peptide measurement after a MMTT (mixed-meal tolerance test) shows at least
preserved or sometimes increased C-peptide production 2 months after the 5-day IL-2

                                            - 45
treatment in patients, as shown for patient 1 on Figure 9B (note that we do not know
the dose received by this patient, but that the increase in Treg observed during treatment
indicates that he received IL-2, not the placebo).
Following this first study with adult TID patients, the inventors conceived a second
dose finding trial, for childhood TID, with inclusion of patients from >7 years old (DF
IL2-child). We refined our dose finding study based on our results in the above
described trial. A dose range of 0.125 to 1 mUI/m2/d (here defined as ultra-low dose) is
being investigated over a one-year treatment period (16 injections), with the aim to
confirm tolerance and efficacy for Treg induction. This corresponds to a cumulative
dose of 2 to 16 mUI/m2, more than 100 times less than in the above described study.
Collectively, our clinical results relieve the concern that IL-2 might not be as effective
in Treg induction in TID patients who have alterations of the IL-2/IL-2R activation
pathway. They also confirm the excellent tolerance of IL-2 at the doses used and
support that 0.5 mUI/m2/day is an appropriate dose for assessing IL-2 efficacy in
recently diagnosed TID patients, children and adults.
Throughout this specification, unless the context requires otherwise, the word
"comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising", will be understood to
imply the inclusion of a stated element or integer or method step or group of elements
or integers or method steps but not the exclusion of any element or integer or method
step or group of elements or integers or method steps.
The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from
it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an
acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that the prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.

                                         -46
                                   REFERENCES
1. Gillis S et KA Smith. Long term culture of tumour-specific cytotoxic T cells.
    Nature 1977; 268: 154-6.
2. Gillis S et J Watson. Biochemical and biological characterization of lymphocyte
    regulatory molecules. V. Identification of an interleukin 2-producing human
    leukemia T cell line. J Exp Med 1980; 152: 1709-19.
3. Ahmadzadeh M et SA Rosenberg. IL-2 administration increases CD4+ CD25(hi)
    Foxp3+ regulatory T cells in cancer patients. Blood 2006; 107: 2409-14.
4. Zhang H, KS Chua, M Guimond, V Kapoor, MV Brown, TA Fleisher, et al.
    Lymphopenia and interleukin-2 therapy alter homeostasis of CD4+CD25+
    regulatory T cells. Nat Med 2005; 11: 1238-43.
5. Papiernik M, ML de Moraes, C Pontoux, F Vasseur et C Penit. Regulatory CD4
    T cells: expression of IL-2R alpha chain, resistance to clonal deletion and IL-2
    dependency. it Immunol 1998; 10: 371-8.
6. Malek TR. The biology of interleukin-2. Annu Rev Immunol 2008; 26: 453-79.
7. Williams MA, AJ Tyznik et MJ Bevan. Interleukin-2 signals during priming are
    required for secondary expansion of CD8+ memory T cells. Nature 2006; 441:
    890-3.
8. Grinberg-Bleyer Y, A Baeyens, S You, R Elhage, G Fourcade, S Gregoire, et al.
    IL-2 reverses established type 1 diabetes in NOD mice by a local effect on
    pancreatic regulatory T cells. J Exp Med; 207: 1871-8.
9. Taniguchi T, Matsui H, Fujita T, Takaoka C, Kashima N, Yoshimoto R, Hamuro
    J. Structure and expression of a cloned cDNA for human interleukin-2. Nature.
     1983; 302:305-10.
10. Whittington and Faulds Interleukin-2. A review of its pharmacological
    properties and therapeutic use in patients with cancer Drugs (1993) 46 (3): 446
    514,
11. Cacoub P, Poynard T, Ghillani P, et al. Extrahepatic manifestations of chronic
    hepatitis C. Arthritis Rheum 1999;42:2204-12
12. Boyer 0, Saadoun D, Abriol J, et al.CD4+CD25+ regulatory T-cell deficiency in
    patients with hepatitis C-mixed cryoglobulinemia vasculitis. Blood
    2004; 103:3428-30.
13. Lenzi M, Frisoni M, Mantovani V, et al. Haplotype HLA-B8-DR3 confers
    susceptibility to hepatitis C virus-related mixed cryoglobulinemia. Blood
     1998;91: 2062-6.
14. Saadoun D, Rosenzwajg M, Landau D, Piette JC, Klatzmann D, Cacoub P.
    Restoration of peripheral immune homeostasis after rituximab in mixed
    cryoglobulinemia vasculitis. Blood 2008; 111:5334-41.
15. Landau DA, Rosenzwajg M, Saadoun D, Tr6beden-Negre H, Klatzmann D,
    Cacoub P. Correlation of clinical and virologic responses to antiviral treatment
    and regulatory T cell evolution in patients with hepatitis C virus-induced mixed
    cryoglobulinemia vasculitis. Arthritis Rheum 2008; 58:2897-907.

                                        - 47
16. Gorevic PD, Kassab HJ, Levo Y, et al. Mixed cryoglobulinemia: clinical aspects
    and long-term follow-up of 40 patients. Am J Med 1980;69:287-308.
17. Saadoun D, Resche Rigon M, Sene D, et al. Rituximab plus Peg-interferon
    alpha/ ribavirin compared with Peg-interferonalpha/ribavirin in hepatitis C
    related mixed cryoglobulinemia. Blood 2010; 116:326-34.
18. Dubois & Dubois Arch Intern Med 1916, 17:863
19. Mosteller RD. "Simplified calculation of body-surface area". N EngI J Med 1987;
    317:1098.
20. Nagasaka et al, Cryoglobulinemia in Japanese patients with chronic hepatitis C
    virus infection: host genetic and virological study. J Med Virol 2001;65:52-7
21. Lunel et al, Cryoglobulinemia in chronic liver disease: role of hepatitis C virus
    and liver damage. Gastroenterology 1994:106:1291-300.
22. Donada et al, Systemic manifestation and liver disease in patients with chronic
    hepatitis C and type II or III mixed cryoglobulinaemia. Blood 1998;91:2062-6.
23. Agnello et al, A role for hepatitis C virus infection in type II cryoglobulinemia.
    N Engl J Med 1992;327:1490-5.
24. Iman et al. Approximations of the Critical Region of the Friedman Statistic.
    Communications in Statistics Part a-Theory and Methods 1980;9:571-95.
25. Conover et al. Practical non parametric statistics. John Wiley & Sons ed. New
    york; 1980.
26. Chaput et al, Identification of CD8+CD20+Foxp3+ suppressive T cells in
    colorectal cancer tissue. Gut 2009; 58: 520-9.
27. Charles et al, Clonal expansion of immunoglobulin M+CD27+B cells inHCV
    associated mixes cryoglobulinemia. Blood 2008; 111:1344-56.
28. Concannon et al, Genetics of type 1A diabetes. N Engl J Med 2009;360:1646
    54.

C: \Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17360663_l.docx-17 07 2018
                                                          -48
CLAIMS:
 1.             Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder in a human subject by administration in an amount that increases the balance between
regulatory T lymphocytes (Tregs) and effector T lymphocytes (Teffs) (Treg/Teff ratio) in said
subject.
2.               Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 1, wherein it is to be administered at a dose of about 0.05 to about
2MITU/m 2 /day, preferably about 0.2 to about 1MUI/m 2 /day.
3.               Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein it is to be administered at a dose of less than about
3.5 MIU/day.
4.               Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 3, wherein it is to be administered at a dose of about 3MIU/day.
5.               Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 3, wherein interleukin-2 (IL-2) is administered at a dose of less
than about 2 MIU/day.
6.               Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 5, wherein interleukin-2 (IL-2) is administered at a dose of
between about 0.05MIU and about 2MIU/day.
7.               Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 6, wherein interleukin-2 (IL-2) is administered at a dose of
between about 0.3MIU and about 1MIU/day.
8.               Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 7, wherein IL-2 is administered repeatedly.

C: \Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17360663_l.docx-17 07 2018
                                                          - 49
9.              Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 8, wherein the treatment comprises at least a first
course wherein interleukin-2 is administered once per day during at least 3 consecutive days,
preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably during 4 to 5 consecutive days, preferably followed by
a maintenance dose after 1 to 4 weeks.
 10.             Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 9, wherein the treatment comprises at least a first
course wherein a dose of about 0.2MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during
at least 3 consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably during 4 to 5 consecutive
days, followed by a maintenance dose of about 0.2MUI/m 2 after one to three weeks, which
maintenance dose can be repeated every one to three weeks.
 11.             Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 10, wherein the subject is an adult that is administered with about
0.3MUI as the daily dose of 0.2MUI/m 2 .
 12.             Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 9, wherein the treatment comprises at least a first
course wherein a dose of about 0.6MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during
at least 3 consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7, still preferably during 4 to 5 consecutive
days, followed by a maintenance dose of about 0.6MUI/m 2 after about two to four weeks,
which maintenance dose can be repeated every two to four weeks.
 13.             Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 12, wherein the subject is an adult that is administered with about
 IMUI as the daily dose of 0.6MUI/m 2 .
 14.             Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 4, wherein the treatment comprises at least a first
course wherein a dose of about 1.8MUI/m 2 of interleukin-2 is administered once a day during
at least 3 consecutive days, preferably during 3 to 7 days, still preferably during 4 to 5

C: \Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17360663_l.docx-17 07 2018
                                                          - 50
consecutive days, followed by a maintenance dose of about 1.8MUI/m 2 after about one or two
months, which maintenance dose can be repeated every one or two months
 15.            Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 14, wherein the subject is an adult that is administered with about
3MUI as the daily dose of 1.8MUI/m 2 .
 16.             Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 1, wherein IL-2 is administered at a dose of D/10 to 20xD,
preferably at a dose of D/5 to 1OxD, wherein D is the minimal dose triggering up-regulation of
expression of CD25 in Treg, without inducing expansion of Treg.
 17.             Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 16, wherein IL-2 is administered at a dose that causes the up
regulation of CD25 to increase by at least 33%, preferably at least 50%.
 18.              Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an
inflammatory disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 17, wherein the treatment is
therapeutic.
 19.              Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an
inflammatory disorder according to any of Claims I to 17, wherein the treatment is preventive.
20.              Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 17, wherein the treatment is preventing occurrence or
development of the autoimmune, immune-related or inflammatory disorder.
21.              Interleukin-2 for use in treating an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 20, wherein said disorder is selected from type I
diabetes, HCV-related vasculitis, uveitis, myositis, systemic lupus erythematous, systemic
vasculitis, psoriasis, allergy, asthma, Crohn's disease, multiple sclerosis, rheumathoid arthritis,
atherosclerosis, autoimmune thyroid disease, auto-inflammatory diseases, neuro-degenerative

C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17360663_l.docx-17 07/2018
                                                         -51
diseases, Alzheimer's disease, graft-versus-host disease, spontaneous abortion and allograft
rejection.
22.            Interleukin-2 for use in treating or preventing autoimmune, an immune-related or an
inflammatory disorder according to Claim 21, wherein said disorder is type I diabetes.
23.            Interleukin-2 for use in treating or preventing autoimmune, an immune-related or an
inflammatory disorder according to Claim 22, wherein the subject is at risk of developing type
I diabetes and the treatment with IL-2 is preventive of onset of the diabetes in said subject.
24.            Interleukin-2 for use in treating or preventing autoimmune, an immune-related or an
inflammatory disorder according to Claim 22, wherein the subject to treat shows an
underproduction of IL-2, and a residual production of insulin.
25.            Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 21, wherein said disorder is rheumathoid arthritis.
26.            Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 21, wherein said disorder is multiple sclerosis.
27.            Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 21, wherein said disorder is psoriasis.
28.            Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 21, wherein said disorder is systemic lupus erythematous.
29.            Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to Claim 21, wherein said disorder is Alzheimer's disease.
30.            Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 29, wherein interleukin-2 is administered by injection
or by oral, nasal, or topical administration.

C: \Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\AAR\17360663_l.docx-17 07 2018
                                                          - 52
31.             Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 29, wherein interleukin-2 (IL-2) is administered by
subcutaneous route.
32.              Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 31, wherein the Treg/Teff ratio is increased by 20%
at least, preferably 50% at least, even more preferably by 100% at least.
33.              Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 31, wherein regulatory T lymphocytes (Tregs) are
stimulated without substantial induction of effector T lymphocytes (Teffs).
34.              Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims I to 33, wherein Treg are stimulated without induction of
arterial hypertension; arthralgia, myalgia, or Flu-like syndrome.
35.              Interleukin-2 for use in treating autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory
disorder according to any of Claims 1 to 34, wherein interleukin-2 is administered in a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.
36.             A method for determining whether a IL-2 regimen or dose has to be modified in a
patient with an autoimmune, an immune-related or an inflammatory disorder, treated with IL
2, which method comprises monitoring the quantity of Tregs and/or CD25 expression level in
Tregs, wherein a quantity of Tregs and/or CD25 expression level in Tregs inferior to a control
value, means that the dose of IL-2 is to be increased.

<removed-date>
                                                                                                                                                                                             1/5
              A                                                                                                               B                                                                                                                                                            C
                                 6.5                                                                                                                      2.5                                                                                                                                   0.20
                                                                                                                                                          2.0
                                                                                                                                                                         **                                                                                                                                                                                           **
                                                                                                                               Cryoglobulin level (g/L)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.15    *
              VIRAL LOAD (Log)
                                 6.0
                                                                                                                                                                 **
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                                                          1.5                                              *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     C4 (g/L)
                                                                                                                                                                                                    *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.10
                                                                                                                                                          1.0
                                 5.5
                                                                               *         *                                                                                                                                                                                                      0.05
                                                                                                                                                          0.5
                                 5.0                                                                                                                      0.0                                                                                                                                   0.00
                                                0 5         15 19          36 40    57 61                      [129-150]                                    0 5        15 19                   36 40    57 61                                                       [129-150]                      0 5           15 19   36 40   57 61                           [129-150]
                                                C1          C2             C3       C4                           Days                                       C1         C2                      C3       C4                                                            Days                         C1            C2      C3      C4                                Days
                                                                                                                                                                       Figure 1
                                                                                                         % CD25 ++CD127-FoxP3 +/CD4 +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                B
              A                                       20
                                                                                                         % CD25 +FoxP3 +/CD8
                                                                                                                                                                        1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ***         ***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       % Ratio Treg/Teff (CD4+CD8)
                        +
                            % CD25 CD127 FoxP3 /CD4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     20
                                                                                         ***
                                                                                                                                                                        0.8                                                                                                                              ***
                                                                                                                                                                                % CD25 FoxP3 /CD8
                                                      15
                        +
                                                                           ***                     ***
                                                                                                 **                                                                                                                                                  15
                                                                                                                                                                        0.6
                        -                                                          ***                                                                                                  +
                                                      10             ***
                                                               *                                                                                                                                                                                     10        *    **          **
                                                                                                                                                                        0.4
                                                                                                                                                                 **                                                                                                                                                                                   **
                                                                                                                                                                                        +
                        ++
                                                      5                                  ***                                                                                                                                                                                                           **
                                                               ***         ***                     ***                                                                  0.2             +                                                             5
                                                      0                                                                                                                 0.0
                                                           0 5        15 19         36 40        57 61                                                     [129-150]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0 5       15 19       36 40                  57 61                                     [129-150]
                                                          C1          C2            C3           C4                                                             Days
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C1        C2          C3                     C4                                         Days
              C                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                           B cells
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   NK cells
                                                                                                                           MZ B cells
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CD56 brigh cells
                                              350                                                                                                                       25
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             250                                                         ***                                                70
                                              300
                                                                                                                                                                        20                                                                                                                                                                                  60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             200
                                              250                                                                                                                                                                                                                        **       **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 CD56
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            50
                                                                                                                                                                               MZ B cells/µl
                                                                                                                                                                        15
                    Bcells/µl
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NK cells/µl
                                              200                                                                                                                                                                                            150
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               *                                                                                            40        brigh
                                                                                             *
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 NK cells/µl
                                              150
                                                                                                                                                                        10                                                                                                                                                                                  30
                                                                           *                                                                                                                                                                 100
                                              100                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ***                                    **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20
                                                                                                                                                                        5                                                                                                         **
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     50        **
                                                      50       *           *             **        **                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       10
                                                      0                                                                                                                 0                                                                                                                                                                         ***
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0                                                                                                     0
                                                           0 5        15 19         36 40        57 61                                                    [129-150]
                                                          C1          C2            C3           C4                                                         Days                                                                                          0 5       15 19       36 40                  57 61                                    [129-150]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          C1        C2          C3                     C4                                        Days
                                                                                                                                                                       Figure 2

<removed-date>
                                                        2/5
<removed-apn>
                                                      Figure 3
                           2.0<U+F0B4>10 5
                           1.5<U+F0B4>10 5
              HTdR (cpm)
                           1.0<U+F0B4>10 5
              3
                           5.0<U+F0B4>10 4
                                  0
                                      on        1/1    1/2    1/4   1/8
                                         de
                                            r
                                es p
                               R
                                                Supressor/Responder ratio
                                                      Figure 4

                      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                          3/5
Figure 6   Figure 5

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                               4/5
Figure 7

<removed-date>
                    5/5
<removed-apn>
                  Figure 8
              A              B
                  Figure 9

