   ABSTRACT
             The present disclosure relates to a heat pump type laundry machine in
   which a second condenser is integrally formed in an evaporator to enhance extra
 5 cooling performance, and relates to a laundry machine in which a second
   condenser is integrally added to an evaporator in the laundry machine employing
   a heat pump to maximize a condensation effect so as to enhance heat exchange
   efficiency, thereby enhancing dehumidifying capability in the evaporator with the
   extra-cooling of refrigerant during the refrigerant cycle.
10           Accordingly, the laundry machine of the present disclosure may be a
   circulation type heat pump laundry machine including a cabinet, a drum, a drying
   duct configured to circulate dry air by resupplying it thereto, an evaporator having
   a heat pump, a first condenser, a compressor and an expansion apparatus,
   wherein the condenser includes a second condenser configured to condense
15 refrigerant condensed from the condenser again so as to extra-cool the refrigerant
   during the refrigerant cycle, thereby enhancing dehumidifying capability in the
   evaporator.

                 1/5
         FIG. 1
190
       ...........
    12
    1              80 1

                         HEAT PUMP TYPE LAUNDRY MACHINE
            The present application is related to Australian Patent Application No.
   2013245520, filed 18 October 2013, the specification of which, as originally filed,
 5 is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.
   TECHNICAL FIELD
            The present disclosure relates to a heat pump type       laundry machine,
   such as a combined washing and drying machine or a dryer, and more particularly,
10 to a clothes dryer for enhancing dehumidifying power in an evaporator provided in
   a heat pump.
   BACKGROUND
            In general, a laundry machine includes a clothes treating apparatus, such
15 as a washing machine, a washer, a combined washing and drying machine or a
   dryer. The laundry machine having a drying function such as a combined washer
   or a dryer, is a device, wherein the laundry is in the drum in a state that the
   washing is completed, and a dehydration process is performed, supplying hot air
   into the drum to evaporate moisture of the laundry, thereby drying the laundry.
20          For an example of a dryer of them, the foregoing dryer may include a
   drum rotatably provided within a cabinet to put the laundry thereinto, a drive motor
   configured to drive the drum, a blower fan configured to blow air into the drum,
   and a heating means configured to heat air brought into the drum. Furthermore,
   the heating means may use high-temperature electric resistance heat generated
25 using an electric resistance, or combustion heat generated by combusting gas.
                                             1

            On the other hand, air discharged from the drum contains the moisture of
   the laundry, and thus becomes high temperature and humid air.
             Here, the dryer may be classified according to a method for processing
   the high temperature and humid air, and thus divided into a condensation
 5 (circulation) type dryer for condensing moisture contained in the high temperature
   and humid air by cooling the air below the dew point temperature through a
   condenser while being circulated without discharging the high temperature and
   humid air out of the dryer, and an exhaustion type dryer for directly discharging the
   high temperature and humid air having passed through the drum to the outside.
10           In case of the condensation type dryer, in order to condense air
   discharged from the drum, the process of cooling the air below the dew point
   temperature should be carried out to heat the air through the heating means prior
   to being supplied to the drum again. Here, the loss of heat energy contained in the
   air is generated while being cooled down during the condensation process, and an
15 additional heater or the like is required to heat the air to a temperature required for
   drying.
             Even in case of the exhaustion type dryer, it is required to discharge high
   temperature and humid air to the outside and receive outside air at normal
   temperature, thereby heating the air up to a required temperature level through the
20 heating means. In particular, thermal energy transferred by the heating means is
   contained in high temperature air being discharged to the outside but it is
   discharged and wasted to the outside, thereby reducing the thermal efficiency.
            Accordingly, in recent years, clothes treating apparatuses for collecting
   energy required to generate hot air and energy being discharged to the outside
25 without being used have been introduced to increase energy efficiency, and a
                                               2

   clothes treating apparatus having a heat pump system has been introduced as an
   example of the clothes treating apparatus. The heat pump system may include two
   heat exchangers, a compressor and an expansion apparatus, and energy
   contained in the discharged hot air is reused in heating up air being supplied to the
 5 drum, thereby increasing energy efficiency.
            Specifically, in the heat pump system, an evaporator is provided at the
   exhaust side, and a condenser at an inlet side of the drum, and thus thermal
   energy is transferred to refrigerant through the evaporator and then thermal
   energy contained in the refrigerant is transferred to air brought into the drum,
10 thereby generating hot air using waste energy.
             However, in a dryer using such a typical heat pump, the size of the
   condenser may be restricted due to a lack of space within which the condenser is
   installed, thereby causing difficulty in achieving its condensation effect.
            Accordingly, heat exchange efficiency may be reduced in the heat
15 exchanger and the cooling of refrigerant may not be properly carried out, thereby
   reducing dehumidifying capability.
             It is desired to address or ameliorate one or more disadvantages or
   limitations associated with the prior art, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
20 SUMMARY
            According to the present invention there is provided a laundry machine,
   comprising:
            a rotatable drum;
            a drying duct configured to circulate air discharged from the drum by
25 resupplying it thereto;
                                               3

             an evaporator and a first condenser sequentially provided on a flow path
   formed by the drying duct;
             a compressor and an expansion apparatus configured to form a refrigerant
   cycle along with the evaporator and the first condenser, and
 5           a second condenser configured to condense refrigerant condensed from
   the first condenser again.
             Embodiments of the invention may provide a laundry machine, such as a
   combined washing and drying machine or a clothes dryer, with enhanced drying
   capability and improved power efficiency.
10           Embodiments of the invention may provide a laundry machine, such as a
   combined washing and drying machine or a clothes dryer in which dehumidifying
   power in an evaporator provided in a heat pump is enhanced.
             Embodiments of the invention may provide a laundry machine, such as a
   combined washing and drying machine or a clothes dryer, employing a circulation
15 type heat pump in which a second condenser is added to an evaporator to extra
   cool, e.g. supercool       refrigerant in the   refrigerant cycle and maximize a
   condensation effect, thereby enhancing heat exchange efficiency. The second
   condenser may be integrated or integrally formed with the evaporator of the heat
   pump.
20           Embodiments of the invention may provide a       laundry machine, such as a
   combined washing and drying machine or a clothes dryer, employing a heat pump
   structure in which a second condenser is configured with a path separated from
   the refrigerant line of the evaporator. Preferably, the second condenser is arranged
   at the rear part or lower part of the evaporator, thereby promoting heat exchange
25 efficiency enhanced through cool dry air or lower condensation water. By these
                                              4

   means, a dehumidifying performance may be enhanced by about 400 W.
            Preferably, a heat pump type laundry machine, i.e. a clothes dryer,
   includes: a cabinet; a drum rotatably provided within the cabinet; a drying duct
   provided in the cabinet to circulate air discharged from the drum by resupplying it
 5 thereto; an evaporator and a first condenser sequentially provided on a flow path
   formed by the drying duct; and a compressor and an expansion apparatus
   configured to form a refrigerant cycle along with the evaporator and the first
   condenser, wherein the evaporator comprises the second condenser. The second
   condenser may be configured to condense refrigerant condensed from the first
10 condenser again. In one exemplary embodiment, the refrigerant pipe of the
   evaporator and the refrigerant pipe of the second condenser may be formed
   penetrating the same heat dissipation fins. By these means, the refrigerant may be
   extra-cooled during the refrigerant cycle, thereby enhancing dehumidifying
   capability in the evaporator.
15          The refrigerant pipe of the second condenser may be arranged at the rear
   side with respect to the flow direction of dry air. Furthermore, the refrigerant pipe
   of the evaporator and the refrigerant pipe of the second condenser may be formed
   in the same heat dissipation fins.
            According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, the refrigerant pipe
20 of the evaporator may be vertically arranged, e.g. in a meandering pattern or in a
   zigzag pattern. In this case, the lowest end portion of the refrigerant pipe of the
   evaporator may be disposed above or on the condensation water line. Further, the
   refrigerant pipe of the second condenser may be vertically arranged, e.g. in a
   meandering pattern or in a zigzag pattern at the rear side with respect to the flow
25 direction of dry air. Alternatively, the refrigerant pipe of the second condenser may
                                                 5

   be horizontally arranged below a part of the evaporator, so that the refrigerant pipe
   of the second condenser is at least partially arranged below a condensation water
   line and may be submerged at least partially in condensation water. The second
   condenser is a separate structure, i.e. independent from the first condenser
 5 structure. Thus, the second condenser may be arranged at a position different
   from the first condenser.
            As an aspect of the present disclosure, the refrigerant path of the
   evaporator, i.e. the pipe or plumbing path of the evaporator may be configured as
   one path. Here, the refrigerant pipe of the second condenser may be formed as a
10 second path, i.e. with an independent refrigerant line separated from the
   refrigerant flow path of the evaporator.
            In one embodiment, the refrigerant pipe or refrigerant path of the
   evaporator may be formed with one path vertically arranged, e.g. in a zigzag
   pattern, with several columns, and the refrigerant pipe or refrigerant path of the
15 second condenser may be formed with one path vertically arranged, e.g. in a
   zigzag pattern, with one column. However, the refrigerant pipe or path of the
   second condenser may also have more than one column.
            According to another embodiment of the present disclosure, the refrigerant
   pipe of the evaporator may be vertically arranged. e.g. in a zigzag pattern. Further,
20 the refrigerant pipe of the second condenser may be disposed horizontally, e.g. in
   a zigzag pattern. Preferably, the refrigerant pipe of the second condenser is
   disposed at a lower portion of the evaporator, i.e. to be submerged under
   condensation water below a condensation water line.
            According to the present disclosure, the first condenser, the second
25 condenser, the expansion apparatus, the evaporator and the compressor are
                                             6

   connected to circulate refrigerant along a refrigerant circulation line so as to form a
   refrigerant cycle of the heat pump. Here, the second condenser may be arranged
   between the first condenser and the expansion apparatus along the refrigerant
   circulation line.
 5           Furthermore, the refrigerant cycle may include a second condensing
   operation on refrigerant (P2) coming out of the first condenser by the second
   condenser to increase the extra-cooling degree of refrigerant (P3) coming out of
   the second condenser.
             The heat pump may be configured such that the enthalpy of refrigerant
10 (P3) coming out of the second condenser is less than that of refrigerant (P2)
   coming out of the first condenser.
             According to the present disclosure, the dehumidifying performance of the
   evaporator may be enhanced by 400 W during the refrigerant cycle due to a
   difference (AQ) between the enthalpy of refrigerant (P2) coming out of the first
15 condenser and the enthalpy of refrigerant (P3) coming out of the second
   condenser.
             Preferably, a heater for reheating air may be configured to be additionally
   provided in the laundry machine, e.g. for reheating air that has been heated up
   while passing through the evaporator. The heater may be arranged in the drying
20 duct or in an intake duct for supplying heated air to the drum.
             According to the present disclosure, a second condenser may be
   integrally added to an evaporator in a laundry machine employing a circulation
   type heat pump to extra-cool refrigerant in the refrigerant cycle and maximize a
   condensation effect, thereby enhancing heat exchange efficiency.
25           According to the present disclosure, a second condenser may be
                                              7

   configured through a path separated from the refrigerant line of the evaporator in
   the rear end or lower end of the evaporator, thereby enhancing dehumidifying
   performance by about 400 W due to condensation water cooling according to
   enhanced heat exchange efficiency.
 5
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Embodiments of the present invention are further described, by way of
   example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings.
           In the drawings:
10         FIG. 1 is a schematic view illustrating the internal structure of a heat pump
   type dryer according to the present disclosure;
           FIG. 2 is a partial detail view illustrating a circulation type heat pump within
   the dryer shown in FIG. 1;
           FIG. 3 is a structural view illustrating the drying method of the heat pump;
15         FIG. 4 is a view illustrating the refrigerant circulation path of an evaporator in
   a heat pump in the related art;
           FIG. 5 is a block diagram illustrating the circulation path of refrigerant using a
   second condenser integrated with an evaporator according to the present disclosure;
           FIGS. 6 and 7 are views illustrating a refrigerant circulation path in an
20 evaporator and a second condenser integrated with an evaporator according to the
   present disclosure; and
           FIG. 8 is a graph showing enhanced dehumidifying performance according
   to enhanced heat exchange efficiency in the present disclosure.
                                               8

   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
              Hereinafter, a heat pump type dryer according to a preferred embodiment
   of the present disclosure will be described in detail with reference to the
   accompanying drawings. The dryer is only one example of a laundry machine
 5 according to the present disclosure. The same applies for a combined washing
   and drying machine or the like.
              Prior to the description, it should be noted that terms and words used in
   the description and claims must not be limited and interpreted to be typical or
   literal, and should be construed as the meaning and concept conforming to the
10 technical concept of the invention on the basis that the inventor can define the
   concept of the terms and words to describe the invention in a best way.
             Accordingly, since the embodiments described in the present disclosure
   and configurations shown the drawings are the most preferred embodiments only
   and do not represent all of technical concept of the invention, it should be
15 understood that there may be various equivalents and modification examples that
   may replace them at the time of application of present disclosure.
              Hereinafter, the configurations and working relations of a clothes dryer as
   an example for a laundry machine according to the present disclosure will be
   described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.
20            FIGS. 1 and 2 are views illustrating the internal structure of a heat pump
   type dryer according to the present invention, and FIG. 3 is a block diagram
   illustrating the drying method of the heat pump. FIG. 4 is a view illustrating the
   refrigerant circulation path of an evaporator in a heat pump in the related art.
              Furthermore, FIG. 5 is a block diagram illustrating the circulation path of
25 refrigerant using a second condenser integrated with an evaporator according to
                                                9

   the present disclosure, and FIGS. 6 and 7 are views illustrating a refrigerant
   circulation path in an evaporator and a second condenser integrated with an
   evaporator according to the present disclosure.
             In addition,   FIG. 8   is a graph showing       enhanced     dehumidifying
 5 performance according to enhanced heat exchange efficiency in the present
   disclosure.
             Referring to FIGS. 1 through 3, the present disclosure may include a
   cabinet 100 forming the outside of the clothes dryer, and a drum 110 rotatably
   provided within the cabinet. The drum is rotatably supported by a supporter (not
10 shown) at the front and rear sides thereof and may be driven by a motor 10.
             An intake duct 170 provided in the cabinet to inhale outside air and supply
   the air to an inner portion of the drum is provided in the vertical direction of the
   drum at the rear side of the drum. An intake flow path through which the air
   inhaled into the drum flows is formed by the intake duct. According to the present
15 disclosure, the air inhaled through the intake duct may be brought in from the
   outside of the cabinet separately from the drying duct 190.
             On the other hand, a heater 180 for heating the inhaled air to become high
   temperature air required for drying the laundry may be provided within the intake
   duct 170. The heater 180 receives electrical energy to sufficiently and quickly
20 supply heating to be supplied to the drum, and further supplies heating such that
   the refrigerant cycle is stably managed in a normal state. By these means, power
   efficiency of a heat pump type laundry machine can be improved and an overload
   situation of the heat pump can be avoided.
             According to the foregoing structure, heating required for drying can be
25 sufficiently supplied in a short period of time, thereby having an effect of reducing
                                              10

   dry time. In other words, additional heating can be supplied in a short period of
   time since the heating cannot be sufficiently supplied in a short period of time
   using only air on the circulation flow path with the drying duct.
             The air brought into the drum may be supplied through a circulation flow
 5 path formed in the drying duct 190 separately from the air through the intake flow
   path. The drying duct 190 is provided in the cabinet to circulate air discharged
   from the drum by resupplying it thereto.
             The air brought into the drum dries the laundry and then is brought into a
   front surface duct (not shown) located at a lower front side of the drum and
10 supplied to the drum again through the drying duct by way of a lint filter (not
   shown) or discharged to the outside of the cabinet through an exhaust duct which
   will be described later.
             A blower fan 120 for inhaling air within the drum to forcibly blow it to the
   outside of the dryer may be provided on the circulation flow path of the drying duct.
15           Here, an evaporator 130 and a condenser 140 are sequentially provided
   on a flow path formed by the drying duct. The evaporator 130 and condenser 140
   as a kind of heat exchanger, according to the present disclosure, form a refrigerant
   cycle of the heat pump, thereby achieving heat exchange with air (Ad) on the
   circulation flow path by refrigerant flowing thereinside.
20           The air brought into the drum is heated by the heater 180 on the intake
   flow path or the condenser 140 on the circulation flow to become high-temperature
   dry air at about 150-250        OC  when being brought into the drum. The high
   temperature air is brought into contact with an object to be dried to evaporate the
   moisture of the object to be dried. The evaporated moisture is to be contained in
25 middle-temperature air and exhausted out of the drum. At this time, in order to
                                              11

   circulate the middle temperature and humid air and reuse it, the moisture should
   be removed. Since the moisture content in the air is affected by the temperature,
   the moisture can be removed when cooling the air. Accordingly, the air on the
   circulation flow path is cooled by heat exchange with the evaporator 130.
 5           In order to supply the air cooled by the evaporator 130 again to the drum,
   it should be heated by high temperature air, and the heating of the air is carried
   out by the condenser 140.
             A refrigerant cycle performs heat exchange with the environment using the
   phase change of refrigerant flowing through the inside thereof. Briefly described,
10 refrigerant is transformed into a low-temperature and low-pressure gas by
   absorbing heat from the environment in the evaporator, compressed into a high
   temperature and high-pressure gas in the compressor, transformed into a high
   temperature and high-pressure liquid by dissipating heat to the environment in the
   condenser, transformed        into a low-temperature    and low-pressure liquid by
15 dropping its pressure in the expansion apparatus, and brought into the evaporator
   again. Due to the circulation of refrigerant, heat is absorbed from the environment
   in the evaporator and heat is supplied to the environment in the condenser. The
   refrigerant cycle may be also referred to as a heat pump.
             According to the present disclosure, the refrigerant cycle may include the
20 compressor 150 and expansion apparatus 160 along with the evaporator 130 and
   condenser 140.
             The flow path of air in heat exchange with the refrigerant cycle is
   illustrated in FIGS. 2 and 3. In other words, an arrow passing through the
   evaporator and condenser and a line connecting between the evaporator and
25 condenser does not indicate the flow path of the refrigerant but indicate the flow
                                              12

   path of the air in FIGS. 2 and 3, and the air is sequentially brought into contact
   with the evaporator and the like to perform heat exchange.
             For the configuration in more detail, as illustrated in FIG. 3, it is seen that
   the evaporator 130 and condenser 140 are sequentially disposed, respectively, on
 5 the circulation flow path (a large circulation line formed along a bold arrow in FIG.
   3) formed by the drying duct 190.
             As illustrated in FIG. 3, the air (Ad) on the circulation flow path performs
   heat exchange with the heat pump during the refrigerant cycle, specifically the air
   (Ad) on the circulation flow path dissipates heat in heat exchange with the
10 evaporator, and absorbs heat in heat exchange with the condenser. As a result,
   the air on the circulation flow path absorbs heat dissipated by itself again.
             In general, the evaporator and condenser are mainly in charge of heat
   exchange during the refrigerant cycle, and the air from which heat is taken in the
   evaporator liquefies moisture contained therein to exhaust it as condensation
15 water, and dry air is heated by the compressor and condenser to be changed into
   high temperature and dry air.
             In this manner, the air changed into high-temperature air in heat exchange
   with the refrigerant cycle through the circulation flow path is brought into the drum
   along with the air into the intake flow path to participate in the drying process.
20           Here, part of the air brought into the drum and used in the drying process
   is exhausted to the outside of the dryer, and part thereof is reused, and supplied to
   the air reused by absorbing only part of waste heat using the refrigerant cycle.
   However, the embodiments of the present invention may also be employed in a
   circulation type dryer, without exhausting air, or in an exhaustion type dryer, in
25 which all of the air is exhausted to the outside of the dryer.
                                               13

            In the heat pump type clothes dryer, waste heat is typically collected using
   the refrigerant cycle, and the present disclosure provides an optimization means
   not to cause a overload during the refrigerant cycle. In other words, in case of a
   refrigerant cycle, the heat exchange of refrigerant should be carried out by phase
 5 change at the optimal operating temperature and pressure, and to this end, an
   heat exchanger such as an evaporator and a condenser, a compressor, an
   expansion apparatus and the like are used. Accordingly, in order to collect more
   heat, the size of the heat exchanger or compressor is inevitably increased.
   However, in case of a typical clothes dryer, it has a spatial restriction and thus the
10 heat exchanger, compressor or the like is limited in their size.
            Accordingly, according to the present disclosure, the heater 180 for
   heating the inhaled air to become high-temperature air required for drying the
   laundry is provided within the intake duct to continuously replenish the inhaled air
   with heating.
15          According to the present disclosure, heating may be replenished through
   the heater 180 to sufficiently supply the heating required for drying, thereby
   reducing dry time. Furthermore, in case of a refrigerant cycle, the heat exchange
   of refrigerant should be carried out by a phase change at the optimal operating
   temperature and pressure, and to this end, heating should be sufficiently supplied.
20 Otherwise, it may cause a problem such as refrigerant being supplied to the
   compressor in a liquid phase or the like, and thus the cycle cannot be stably
   operated, thereby reducing the reliability of the cycle. Accordingly, as disclosed
   herein, the air brought into the drum may be additionally replenished with heating
   by the heater 180, and thus it is preferable that the refrigerant cycle can be stably
25 operated in a normal state.
                                            14

            In addition, an additional blower fan 120 may be provided on the intake
   flow path to provide more airflow. Furthermore, the additional blower fan provides
   more airflow and thus the heater 180 is not overheated on the intake flow path.
   The configuration provided with the additional blower fan 120 is illustrated in FIGS.
 5 2 through 4.
            On the other hand, the present disclosure may be configured such that
   part of the air is exhausted to the outside of the cabinet at the upstream of the
   evaporator on the circulation flow path. Accordingly, as illustrated in FIG. 1, the
   present disclosure may further include an exhaust duct 15 branched from the
10 upstream of the evaporator 130 in the drying duct 190, and the exhaust duct is
   configured to exhaust part of the air to the outside of the cabinet at the upstream
   of the evaporator on the circulation flow path. The exhaust duct forms an exhaust
   flow path for discharging hot air coming out of the drum to exhaust part of the air
   to the outside of the cabinet.
15          According to the foregoing configuration, waste heat is absorbed from part
   of the middle temperature and humid air coming out of the drum only within a
   range that can be processed by the refrigerant cycle, and the rest of the air is
   exhausted. Accordingly, it may be possible to reduce energy waste as well as not
   to cause an overload during the refrigerant cycle. Furthermore, it may be possible
20 to reduce power consumption as well as enhance reliability for the operation of the
   refrigerant cycle.
            Hereinafter, a heat pump type clothes dryer in which a second condenser
   according to the present disclosure may be installed at the evaporator to maximize
   a condensation effect so as to enhance dehumidifying capability in the evaporator
25 will be described with reference to FIGS. 4 through 7.
                                             15

            Referring to FIG. 4, the evaporator 130 in the related art is formed on a
   single refrigerant path with one inlet 131 and one outlet 132, respectively, and the
   pipe line Pe of the evaporator passing through a plurality of overlapped heat
   dissipation fins with a plate shape is vertically designed in a zigzag pattern.
 5          Refrigerant brought into the refrigerant pipe inlet 131 of the evaporator
   from the expansion apparatus 160 flows along the refrigerant line of the
   evaporator to perform heat exchange. Furthermore,              the refrigerant of the
   evaporator pipe that has finished heat exchange is circulated to the compressor
   150 through the outlet 132 of the refrigerant pipe of the evaporator 130.
10          In such a refrigerant cycle in the related art, the evaporator 130 merely
   performs a heat exchange operation with high temperature and humid air in the
   dryer to reduce the temperature of the air and extract condensation water.
   Furthermore, air flowing through the condenser 140 is heated to allow the high
   temperature and humid air to be flowed into the drum again.
15          Due to this, according to the present disclosure, the condenser 140 is
   used as a first condenser, and a second condenser 141 is provided in the
   evaporator 130 to further increase a heat change provided by the condenser 140,
   thereby enhancing heat exchange efficiency with air.
            During the refrigerant cycle, refrigerant passes through the compressor
20 150 to follow the path of circulating through the condenser 140, expansion
   apparatus 160 and evaporator 130. According to the present disclosure,
   refrigerant that has passed through the compressor 150 is condensed in the
   condenser 140, and then condensed again in the second condenser 141
   separately provided at the evaporator 130, thereby enhancing its condensation
25 effect.
                                              16

            Referring to FIG. 5, the evaporator 130 may include the second condenser
   141 configured to condense refrigerant (P2) condensed from the condenser 140
   again. Refrigerant (P3) condensed again in the second condenser 141               is
   circulated to the expansion apparatus 160. Furthermore, refrigerant (P4) coming
 5 out of the expansion apparatus is circulated along the refrigerant pipe of the
   evaporator 130 to extra-cool refrigerant during the refrigerant cycle, thereby
   enhancing dehumidifying capability in the evaporator.
            Next, refrigerant (P5) coming through the evaporator 130 passes through
   the compressor 150, and the compressed refrigerant (P1) flows to the refrigerant
10 pipe of the condenser 140 again, thereby allowing the refrigerant to be circulated
   in the refrigerant cycle.
            Furthermore, as illustrated in FIGS. 5 and 6, the refrigerant pipe of the
   evaporator 130 and the refrigerant pipe of the second condenser 141 are formed
   in the same heat dissipation fins.
15          The heat dissipation fins are formed in such a manner that a plurality of
   plate-shaped metals with excellent thermal conductivity are overlapped with one
   another to efficiently perform external heat exchange with the refrigerant of the
   refrigerant pipe.
            In this manner, according to the present disclosure, the extra-cooling
20 degree may be further increased through the first condensation of the condenser
   140 and the second condensation of the second condenser 141 to enhance
   dehumidifying capability in the evaporator, thereby enhancing the efficiency of the
   heat pump.
            The refrigerant cycle in a heat pump condensation type dryer according to
25 the foregoing embodiment enhances dehumidifying capability in the evaporator for
                                             17

   removing moisture in the dry flow path. To this end, refrigerant flowing into the pipe
   from the condenser outlet passes through the second condenser before passing
   through the expansion apparatus (or expansion valve). Accordingly, it has a
   structure in which refrigerant in the second condenser 143 is further extra-cooled
 5 and brought into the evaporator in a low refrigerant dryness or low refrigerant
   temperature state through the expansion apparatus (e.g. expansion valve),
   thereby enhancing dehumidifying capability.
            The second condenser 141 according to the present disclosure may be
   arranged vertically at a rear side of the evaporator 130 (in air flow direction) or
10 horizontally at a lower side thereof, i.e. below the evaporator 130. For instance,
   the second condenser 141 may be plumbed in a vertical orientation (upright) at the
   rear end column of the evaporator 130 or plumbed in a horizontal orientation at the
   lower bottom column thereof as illustrated in FIGS. 6 and 7. Vertical or horizontal
   refers to the main flow direction of the refrigerant in the refrigerant pipe. For
15 instance, if the evaporator 130 is vertically arranged and has four columns, as
   shown in FIG. 6, the columns are vertically arranged.
             FIGS. 6 and 7 are views illustrating the refrigerant flow path structure of an
   evaporator in which an additional refrigerant pipe Pc2 is independently plumbed to
   the evaporator 130 as the second condenser 141.
20          According to an embodiment of the present disclosure illustrated in FIG. 6,
   the refrigerant pipe of the evaporator 130 is vertically arranged in a zigzag pattern,
   and the lowest end portion of the refrigerant pipe of the evaporator 130 is
   disposed above or on the condensation water line. Here, the refrigerant pipe of the
   second condenser 141 may be vertically arranged in a zigzag pattern at the rear
25 side of the evaporator 130 with respect to the flow direction of dry air.
                                              18

             In this manner, the position of the refrigerant pipe of the second condenser
   141 is to maximize heat exchange efficiency, since the moisture is removed and
   the temperature is reduced in the air (Ad), while high temperature and humid air
   (Ad) first passes through the evaporator 130, then through the second condenser
 5 141 before passing through the condenser 140.
            As an aspect of the present disclosure, the refrigerant pipe of the
   evaporator 130 is configured with one path, and the refrigerant pipe plumbing path
   of the second condenser 141 is formed with an independent refrigerant line
   separated from the refrigerant flow path of the evaporator 130.
10          The refrigerant pipe of the evaporator 130 may be formed with one path
   vertically arranged in a zigzag pattern with a plurality of columns (in FIG. 6: four
   columns), and the refrigerant pipe of the second condenser 141 may be formed
   with one path vertically arranged in a zigzag pattern with one or more columns.
             In particular, the embodiment of FIG. 6 illustrates a structure in which at
15 the front side (left side in the drawing) first through fourth columns of the
   evaporator 130 are used for the refrigerant pipe of the evaporator 130 in charge of
   the refrigerant dehumidification and air cooling, and the last fifth column at the rear
   side (right side on the drawing) is used as the refrigerant pipe of the second
   condenser 141 to increase the extra-cooling degree of refrigerant.
20           Here, refrigerant is evaporated in the refrigerant pipe of the evaporator
   130 (first through fourth columns from the front side) to transfer the heat of
   vaporization to external high temperature and humid air (Ad), thereby allowing
   vapor in the air to be condensed into water. Accordingly, dry air at ambient
   temperature that has passed through the evaporator 130 is heat exchanged at the
25 second condenser 141 through the refrigerant in a portion of the evaporator 130
                                               19

   (fifth column at the rear side) used for the second condenser 141, thereby
   increasing the extra-cooling degree of the refrigerant in the second condenser 141.
             According to another embodiment of the present disclosure illustrated in
   FIG. 7, the refrigerant pipe or refrigerant plumbing of the evaporator 130 is
 5 vertically arranged in a zigzag pattern, and the refrigerant pipe plumbing path of
   the second condenser 141 is disposed to be submerged under condensation
   water below a condensation water line at a lower portion of the evaporator 130,
   and horizontally arranged in a zigzag pattern.
             In this manner, according to a structure in which a lower portion of the
10 evaporator 130 which is a heat exchanger is used for the second condenser 141,
   the heat of vaporization at an upper portion of the evaporator 130, which is a heat
   exchanger is transferred and the generated condensation water flows down due to
   gravity. Since the second condenser 141 is installed at the lower portion, the extra
   cooling    degree   is  increased    due   to  a  temperature    difference    between
15 condensation water and refrigerant while passing through the second condenser
   141.
             Hereinafter, enhanced dehumidifying performance in an             evaporator
   through a second condenser mounted on the evaporator according to the present
   disclosure will be described in detail with reference to FIGS. 6 through 8.
20           According to the present disclosure, the condenser 140 used for a first
   condenser which is a heat pump system, the second condenser 141,                    the
   expansion apparatus 160, the evaporator 130 and the compressor 150 are
   connected to circulate refrigerant along a refrigerant circulation line so as to form a
   refrigerant cycle.
25           Furthermore, as illustrated in a graph of FIG. 8, the refrigerant cycle may
                                              20

   perform a second condensing operation on refrigerant (P2) coming out of the
   condenser 140 by the second condenser 141 to increase the extra-cooling degree
   of refrigerant (P3) coming out of the second condenser by AQ.
             In other words, the enthalpy of refrigerant (P3) coming out of the second
 5 condenser 141 is formed to be less than that of refrigerant (P2) coming out of the
   condenser 140.
             Referring to FIGS. 6 through 8, according to the present disclosure, the
   dehumidifying performance of the evaporator 130 may be enhanced by 400 W
   during the refrigerant cycle due to a difference (AQ) between the enthalpy of
10 refrigerant (P2) coming out of the condenser 140 and the enthalpy of refrigerant
   (P3) coming out of the second condenser 141.
             As shown in a graph of FIG. 8, first, when performing a first condensation
   operation in the condenser 140 in the state (1) which is a phase of refrigerant (P1)
   coming out of the compressor 150, it is phase-changed to the location of (2)
15 (refrigerant in the phase of P2). Then, an extra-cooling degree using the second
   condenser 141 according to the present disclosure is increased to the location of
   (3) (refrigerant in the phase of P3) from that of (2) (refrigerant in the phase of P2).
   Accordingly, heat absorption start location in the evaporator 130 is moved to the
   location of (4) (P4), and thus it is seen that the dehumidifying performance is
20 enhanced from 2600 W in the related art to 3000 W, from enthalpy (4) to enthalpy
   (5), by about 400 W.
             As a result, according to the present disclosure, the following effects can
   be promoted by the foregoing task solving means, and the configurations,
   combinations, and working relations which will be described later.
25           According to the present disclosure, the second condenser 141 may be
                                             21

   integrally added to the evaporator 130 in a laundry machine employing a
   circulation type heat pump to extra-cooling refrigerant in the refrigerant cycle and
   maximize a condensation effect, thereby enhancing heat exchange efficiency.
             Furthermore, the second condenser 141 may be configured through a
 5 path separated from the refrigerant line of the evaporator in the rear portion or
   lower    portion  of  the   evaporator    130,  thereby   enhancing    dehumidifying
   performance by about 400 W due to condensation water cooling according to
   enhanced heat exchange efficiency.
             The aforementioned embodiments are merely preferred embodiments of
10 the present disclosure to allow persons having ordinary skill in the art to which the
   present disclosure pertains (hereinafter, referred to as "those skilled in the art") to
   easily implement a clothes dryer having an evaporator provided with a second
   condenser according to the present disclosure, and the present disclosure is not
   limited to the foregoing embodiments and the accompanying drawings, and thus
15 the rights scope of the present disclosure is not limited thereto. Accordingly, it
   should be understood by those skilled in the art that various substitutions,
   modifications and changes can be made without departing from the technical
   concept of the invention, and it should be also clearly understood that portions
   which can be easily changed by those skilled in the art will fall in the rights scope
20 of the invention.
             Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
   context requires otherwise,      the word    "comprise", and variations such as
   "comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated
   integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other
25 integer or step or group of integers or steps.
                                             22

           The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
  derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken
  as an acknowledgment or admission or any form of suggestion that that prior
  publication (or information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the
5 common general knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification
  relates.
                                            23

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
             1. A laundry machine, comprising:
             a rotatable drum;
 5           a drying duct configured to circulate air discharged from the drum by
   resupplying it thereto;
             an evaporator and a first condenser sequentially provided on a flow path
   formed by the drying duct;
             a compressor and an expansion apparatus configured to form a refrigerant
10 cycle along with the evaporator and the first condenser, and
             a second condenser configured to condense refrigerant condensed from
   the first condenser again.
             2. The laundry machine of claim 1, wherein the second condenser is
15 arranged at the evaporator.
             3. The laundry machine of claim 1 or 2, wherein the refrigerant pipe of the
   evaporator and the refrigerant pipe of the second condenser are formed in the
   same heat dissipation fins.
20
             4. The laundry machine according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein the refrigerant pipe of the second condenser is arranged at a rear side of
   the evaporator with respect to an air flow direction.
                                             24

            5. The laundry machine according to any one of the preceding claims 2 to
   4, wherein the refrigerant pipe of the evaporator is configured as one path, and a
   refrigerant pipe of the second condenser is formed as an independent refrigerant
   line separated from the refrigerant pipe of the evaporator.
 5
            6. The laundry machine according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein a refrigerant pipe of the second condenser is vertically arranged.
            7. The laundry machine according to claim 6, wherein the refrigerant pipe
10 of the second condenser is formed as one path in a zigzag pattern with one
   column.
            8. The laundry machine according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein a refrigerant pipe of the evaporator is vertically arranged in a zigzag
15 pattern.
            9. The laundry machine according to claim 8, wherein the refrigerant pipe
   of the evaporator is formed as one path in a zigzag pattern with several columns.
20          10. The laundry machine according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein a refrigerant pipe of the second condenser is horizontally arranged.
            11. The laundry machine according to any one of the preceding claims ,
   wherein a refrigerant pipe of the second condenser is disposed at a lower portion
25 of the evaporator.
                                            25

            12. The laundry machine according to any one of the preceding claims ,
   wherein the first condenser, the second condenser, the expansion apparatus, the
   evaporator and the compressor are connected to circulate refrigerant along a
 5 refrigerant circulation path so as to form a refrigerant cycle.
            13. The laundry machine of claim 12, wherein the second condenser is
   arranged between the first condenser and the expansion apparatus in the
   refrigerant cycle.
10
            14. The laundry machine according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the
   refrigerant cycle performs a second condensing operation on refrigerant coming
   out of the first condenser by the second condenser.
15          15. The laundry machine according to any one of the preceding claims,
   wherein an enthalpy of refrigerant coming out of the second condenser is less
   than that of refrigerant coming out of the first condenser.
                                              26

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/5

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
1/5                              2/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/5

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/5

