                                           ABSTRACT
         The present invention provides a topical composition comprising (a) 0.5 to 25
  weight percent of glycerin; (b) 0.1 to 5 weight percent of cetearyl olivate; (c) 0.1 to 5
5 weight percent of sorbitan olivate; and (d) 0.01.to 1 weight percent of extract of Pichia
  anomala; wherein the composition is substantially free of fatty alcohols and is in the
  form of a gel cream.

            TOPICAL COMPOSITION CONTAINING GLYCERIN AND YEAST EXTRACT
   Cross Reference to Related Applications
            This application claims priority of the benefits of U.S. Provisional Application
   Serial No. 62/432,945 filed December 12, 2017. The complete disclosure of the
 5 aforementioned U.S. patent application is hereby incorporated by reference for all
   purposes.
   Field of the Invention
            The present invention provides a topical composition comprising (a) 0.5 to 25
10 weight percent of glycerin; (b) 0.1 to 5 weight percent of cetearyl olivate; (c) 0.1 to 5
   weight percent of sorbitan olivate; and (d) 0.01 to weight percent of extract of Pichia
   anomala; wherein the composition is substantially free of fatty alcohols and is in the
   form of a gel cream.
   Background of the Invention
15      Gel creams are a desirable form of topical skin care compositions. The gel cream
   aesthetic is characterized with a watery break, semi-translucent aspect and light after
   feel.
        NEUTROGENA Hydro Boost Gel Cream, commercially available from Johnson &
   Johnson Consumer Inc., is a gel cream providing long lasting moisturization benefits.
20 It absorbs into the skin quickly, like a gel, but has the long-lasting, intense moisturizing
   power of a cream. It contains hyaluronic acid along with glycerin, cetearyl olivate, and
   sorbitan olivate.
        US 6,620,420 discloses cosmetic or dermatological gel creams of the oil-in-water
   type, comprising: (i) up to 90% by weight of a water phase, (ii) up to 20% by weight of
25 a lipid phase, based on the total weight of the preparations, (iii) up to 5% by weight of
   one or more emulsifiers, (iv) also comprising up to 5% by weight of one or more
   ammonium acrylolydimethyltaurate/vinylpyrrolidone copolymers (ARISTOFLEX* AVC
   commercially available from Clariant GmbH).
                                                  1

        Pichia is a genus of yeasts in the family Saccharomycetaceae. More than 100
   species of this genus are known. The most well-known species include Pichia
   anomala, Pichia guilliermondii, Pichia norvegensis, and Pichia ohmeri.
        Pichia anomala (formerly named Hansenula anomala) can be found in raw milk
 5 and cheese. The extracts of yeasts of the genus Pichia are rich in mannans,
   polysaccharides composed of mannose monomers. Pichia anomala and mannans are
   known to be used in the treatment of aging skin. See, for example, FR 2938768, FR
   2906719, FR 2897266 and FR 2976490.
         PRO-LIPISKIN* is a commercially available cosmetic ingredient containing extract
10 of Pichia anomala. It is produced by a Pichia strain isolated from sugar cane. It is
   available from Silab-France.
        There exists a need for gel cream formulas with improved anti-aging benefits.
        Applicant has now discovered that compositions containing glycerin and yeast
   extract increase the levels of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) produced by skin in need or
15 treatment for signs of skin aging when administered topically. In particular, these
   compositions contain glycerin, cetearyl olivate, sorbitan olivate, and extract of Pichia
   anomala, but are substantially free of fatty alcohols, particularly cetyl alcohol and
   behenyl alcohol.
        Glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), such as hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate, are
20 predominantly synthesized by fibroblasts. It is known that the skin aging process
   brings about a decline in these metabolic activities, resulting in a decrease in the
   GAG's of the extracellular matrix of the dermis, and a decrease in cell growth,
   resulting in a detrimental change in the mechanical properties of the skin, in particular
   its firmness, elasticity, tonicity, and/or suppleness.
25      Applicant has found the compositions of the invention increase the amount of
   hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate in skin topically treated with them.
                                                 2

       Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
   considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of
   common general knowledge in the field.
   Summary of the Invention
 5          In a first aspect, the present invention provides a topical composition
   comprising (a) 0.5 to 25 weight percent of glycerin; (b) 0.1 to 5 weight percent of
   cetearyl olivate; (c) 0.1 to 5 weight percent of sorbitan olivate; and (d) 0.01 to weight
   percent of extract of Pichia anomala; wherein the composition is substantially free of
   fatty alcohols and is in the form of a gel cream.
10          According to a second aspect, the present invention provides a method of
   improving the barrier function and moisturisation of skin comprising applying the
   composition according to the invention to skin in need thereof.
            According to a third aspect, the present invention provides a method of
   improving the appearance of at least one sign of skin aging comprising applying the
15 composition according to the invention to skin in need thereof.
            According to a fourth aspect, the present invention provides the use of the
   composition according to the invention for the manufacture of a medicament for
   improving the barrier function and moisturisation of skin.
            According to a fifth aspect, the present invention provides the use of the
20 composition according to the invention for the manufacture of a medicament for
   improving the appearance of at least one sign of skin aging.
   Detailed Description
            Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and
   the claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an
25 inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the
   sense of "including, but not limited to".
                                                  3

            It is believed that one skilled in the art can, based on the description herein,
   utilize the present invention to its fullest extent. The following specific embodiments
   are to be construed as merely illustrative, and not limitative of the remainder of the
   disclosure in any way whatsoever.
 5          Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein have
   the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which
   the invention belongs. Also, all publications, patent applications, patents, and other
   references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference. Unless otherwise
   indicated, percentages used to express amounts of ingredients are percentage by
10 weight (i.e., % (W/W). Similarly weight ratios used to express relative proportions of
   ingredients are also determined using percentage by weight (i.e., weight ratios are
   calculated by dividing the percentage by weight of one ingredient by another). Unless
   stated otherwise, all ranges are inclusive of the endpoints, e.g., "from 4 to 9" includes
   the endpoints 4 and 9.
15          As used herein, a "product" is optionally in finished packaged form. In one
   embodiment, the package is a container such as a plastic, metal or glass tube or jar
   containing the composition. The product may further contain additional packaging
   such as a plastic or cardboard box for storing such container. In one embodiment, the
   product comprises a composition of the invention and contains instructions directing
20 the user to apply the composition to the skin or hair.
            As used herein, "topically applying" means directly laying on or spreading on
   outer skin, the scalp, or hair, e.g., by use of the hands or an applicator such as a wipe,
   roller, or spray.
            As used herein, "cosmetic" refers to a beautifying substance or preparation
25 which preserves, restores, bestows, simulates, or enhances the appearance of bodily
   beauty or appears to enhance the beauty or youthfulness, specifically as it relates to the
   appearance of tissue or skin.
                                                   4

            As used herein, "cosmetically acceptable" means that the ingredients the term
   describes are suitable for use in contact with tissues (e.g., the skin or hair) without undue
   toxicity, incompatibility, instability, irritation, allergic response, or the like.
            In certain embodiments, the compositions of the present invention are suitable
 5 for treating signs of skin aging. As used herein, "signs of skin aging" includes the presence
   of lines and wrinkles, loss of elasticity, uneven skin, and blotchiness. In a particularly
   preferred embodiment, the sign of aging is the presence of lines and wrinkles and/or loss
   of elasticity.
            As used herein, "treating signs of skin aging" refers to mitigating, reducing,
10 preventing, improving, or eliminating the presence or signs of skin aging described
   above.
            As used herein, "wrinkle" includes fine lines, fine wrinkles, or coarse wrinkles.
   Examples of wrinkles include, but are not limited to, fine lines around the eyes (e.g.,
   "crow's feet"), forehead and cheek wrinkles, frown-lines, and laugh-lines around the
15 mouth.
            As used herein, "loss of elasticity" includes loss of elasticity or structural integrity
   of the skin or tissue, including but not limited to sagging, lax and loose tissue. The loss of
   elasticity or tissue structure integrity may be a result of a number of factors, including
   but not limited to disease, aging, hormonal changes, mechanical trauma, environmental
20 damage, or the result of an application of products, such as a cosmetics or
   pharmaceuticals, to the tissue.
            As used herein, "uneven skin" means a condition of the skin associated with
   diffuse or mottled pigmentation, which may be classified as hyperpigmentation, such as
   post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation.
25          As used herein, "blotchiness" means a condition of the skin associated with
   redness or erythema.
            As used herein, "improving the firmness of skin" means the enhancing of the
   firmness or elasticity of the skin, preventing the loss of firmness or elasticity of skin, or
   preventing or treating sagging, lax and loose skin. The firmness or elasticity of the skin
                                                     5

   can be measured by use of a cutometer. See Handbook Of Non-Invasive Methods And
   The Skin, eds. J. Serup, G. Jemec & G. Grove, Chapter 66.1 (2006). The loss of skin
   elasticity or firmness may be a result of a number of factors, including but not limited to
   aging, environmental damage, or the result of an application of a cosmetic to the skin.
 5          As used herein, "improving the texture of skin" means the smoothing of the
   surface of the skin to remove either bumps or crevasses on the skin surface.
            As used herein, "improving the appearance of wrinkles in skin" means
   preventing, retarding, arresting, or reversing the process of wrinkle and fine line
   formation in skin.
10          As used herein, the term "safe and effective amount" means an amount
   sufficient to induce the desired effect, but low enough to avoid serious side effects. The
   safe and effective amount of the compound, extract, or composition will vary with, e.g.,
   the age, health and environmental exposure of the end user, the duration and nature of
   the treatment, the specific extract, ingredient, or composition employed, the particular
15 carrier utilized, and like factors.
            As used herein, the term "gel cream" means a formulation with low levels of oil
   droplets suspended in aquous gel matrix.
            In certain embodiments, the compositions of the present invention are suitable
   for treating skin in need of improving skin barrier function and moisturization. As used
20 herein, "skin in need of improving skin barrier function and moisturization" means skin
   that is, but not limited to, lacking in moisture, lacking in sebum, cracked, dry, itchy, scaly,
   xerodermic, dehydrated, lacks suppleness, lacks radiance, dull, or lacks lipids.
            As described herein, applicants have discovered provides a topical composition
   comprising (a) 0.5 to 25 weight percent of glycerin; (b) 0.1 to 5 weight percent of
25 cetearyl olivate; (c) 0.1 to 5 weight percent of sorbitan olivate; and (d) 0.01 to weight
   percent of extract of Pichia anomala; wherein the composition is substantially free of
   fatty alcohols and is in the form of a gel cream.
   Glycerin
                                                   6

            The composition comprises 0.5 to 25 weight percent glycerin. In one
   embodiment, the composition comprises 1 to 6 weight percent glycerin.
   Cetearyl Olivate and Sorbitan Olivate
            The composition comprises 0.1 to 5 weight percent of cetearyl olivate. In one
 5 embodiment, the composition comprises 0.1 to 2 weight percent of cetearyl olivate.
            The composition also comprises 0.1 to 5 weight percent of sorbitan olivate. In
   one embodiment, the composition comprises 0.1 to 2 weight percent of sorbitan olivate.
            A convenient source of cetearyl olivate and sorbitan olivate is Olivem* 1000,
   commercially available from Hallstar Itali.
10 Yeast Extract
            The topical composition comprises one or more extracts of Pichia anomala.
   Pichia is a genus of yeasts in the family Saccharomycetaceae. More than 100 species
   of this genus are known. The most well-known species include Pichia anomala, Pichia
   guilliermondii, Pichia norvegensis, and Pichia ohmeri. Pichia anomala (formerly
15 named Hansenula anomala) can be found in raw milk and cheese. The extracts of
   yeasts of the genus Pichia are rich in mannans, polysaccharides composed of mannose
   monomers. Pichia anomala and mannans are known to be used in the treatment of
   aging skin. See, for example, FR 2938768, FR 2906719, FR 2897266 and FR 2976490.
            In particular, such extracts may be extracts produced using one of the various
20 strains of Pichia anomala isolated from the fruit or other aerial parts of a plant. Any
   cosmetically acceptable extract of Pichia anomala may be used.
            One example of a suitable extract of Pichia anomala is PRO-LIPISKIN,
   commercially available from Silab-France. It is produced from a strain of Pichia
   anomala present on sugar cane.
25          Another example of a suitable extract of Pichia anomala is produced from a
   strain of Pichia anomala present on fruit or leaves of a kiwi plant.
                                                 7

            Both of the foregoing may be provided as aqueous solutions containing dry
   matter in the range of about 20%, more specifically 2 to 10%, most specifically 3 to
   7%. Accordingly, the composition may contain 0.01.to 1 weight percent of extract of
   Pichia anomala.
 5          PRO-LIPISKIN* is a commercially available cosmetic ingredient containing
   extract of Pichia anomala. It is produced by Pichia strain isolated from sugar cane. It
   is available from Silab-France.
            In one embodiment, the composition is substantially free of fatty alcohols. In
   particular, the composition is substantially free of cetyl alcohol and behenyl alcohol.
10 As used herein, the phrase "substantially free" means containing less than 0.1 weight
   percent, or less than 0.01 weight percent, or none of an ingredient. In one
   embodiment of the invention, the composition contains no cetyl alcohol or behenyl
   alcohol. In another embodiment of the invention, the composition contains no fatty
   alcohols.
15          In another embodiment, the composition has a pH of less than 7.
   Additional Cosmetically Active Agents
            The compositions of the present invention may further comprise any of a variety
   of additional cosmetically active agents. Examples of suitable additional active agents
   include: skin lightening agents, darkening agents, additional anti-aging agents,
20 tropoelastin promoters, collagen promoters, anti-acne agents, shine control agents, anti
   microbial agents such as anti-yeast agents, anti-fungal, and anti-bacterial agents, anti
   inflammatory agents, anti-parasite agents, external analgesics, sunscreens,
   photoprotectors, antioxidants, keratolytic agents, detergents/surfactants, moisturizers,
   nutrients, vitamins, energy enhancers, anti-perspiration agents, astringents, deodorants,
25 hair removers, hair growth enhancing agents, hair growth delaying agents, firming
   agents, hydration boosters, efficacy boosters, anti-callous agents, agents for skin
   conditioning, anti-cellulite agents, odor-control agents such as odor masking or pH
   changing agents, and the like.
                                                 8

            Examples of various suitable additional cosmetically acceptable actives include
   hydroxy acids; benzoyl peroxide; D-panthenol; UV filters such as but not limited to
   avobenzone (PARSOL 1789), bisdisulizole disodium (NEO HELIOPAN AP), diethylamino
   hydroxybenzoyl hexyl benzoate (UVINUL A Plus), ecamsule (MEXORYL SX), methyl
 5 anthranilate, 4-aminobenzoic acid (PABA), cinoxate, ethylhexyl triazone (UVINULT 150),
   homosalate, 4-methylbenzylidene camphor (PARSOL 5000), octyl methoxycinnamate
   (Octinoxate), octyl salicylate (Octisalate), padimate 0 (ESCALOL 507),
   phenylbenzimidazole sulfonic acid (ENSULIZOLE), polysilicone-15 (PARSOL SLX),
   trolamine salicylate, Bemotrizinol (TINOSORB S), benzophenones 1-12, dioxybenzone,
10 drometrizole trisiloxane (MEXORYL XL), iscotrizinol (UVASORB HEB), octocrylene,
   oxybenzone (EUSOLEX 4360), sulisobenzone, bisoctrizole (TINOSORB M), titanium
   dioxide, zinc oxide; carotenoids; free radical scavengers; spin traps; retinoids and retinoid
   precursors such as retinol, retinoic acid and retinyl palmitate; ceramides;
   polyunsaturated fatty acids; essential fatty acids; enzymes; enzyme inhibitors; minerals;
15 hormones such as estrogens; steroids such as hydrocortisone; 2-dimethylaminoethanol;
   copper salts such as copper chloride; peptides containing copper, coenzyme Q10; amino
   acids such a proline; vitamins; lactobionic acid; acetyl-coenzyme A; niacin; riboflavin;
   thiamin; ribose; electron transporters such as NADH and FADH2; and other botanical
   extracts such as oat, aloe vera, Feverfew, Soy, Shiitake mushroom extracts, and
20 derivatives and mixtures thereof.
            In certain preferred embodiments, the composition comprises at least one
   additional skin moisturizing active agent.
            In certain preferred embodiments, the composition comprises at least one
   additional agent for improving the appearance of at least one sign of aging in skin.
25 Examples of suitable additional agents improving the appearance of at least one sign of
   aging in skin include, but are not limited to, tropoelastin promoters, collagen promoters,
   retinoids, dimethylaminoethanol, N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-hydroxypropyl)ethylenediamine,
   alpha hydroxy acids, polyhydroxyacids, and combinations of two or more thereof.
            "Tropoelastin promoters," as used herein, refers to a class of compounds that
30 possess the biological activity of enhancing the production of tropoelastin. Tropoelastin
                                                   9

   promoters, according to the present invention, include all natural or synthetic
   compounds that are capable of enhancing the production of tropoelastin in the human
   body.
            Examples of suitable tropoelastin promoters include, but are not limited to,
 5 blackberry extracts, cotinus extracts, feverfew extracts, and bimetal complexes having
   copper and/or zinc constituents. The bimetal complex having copper and/or zinc
   constituents may be, for example, copper-zinc citrate, copper-zinc oxalate, copper-zinc
   tartarate, copper-zinc malate, copper-zinc succinate, copper-zinc malonate, copper-zinc
   maleate, copper-zinc aspartate, copper-zinc glutamate, copper-zinc glutarate, copper
10 zinc fumarate, copper-zinc glucarate, copper-zinc polyacrylic acid, copper-zinc adipate,
   copper-zinc pimelate, copper-zinc suberate, copper-zinc azealate, copper-zinc sebacate,
   copper-zinc dodecanoate, or combinations thereof. In a preferred embodiment, the
   tropoelastin promoter is selected from blackberry extracts, cotinus extracts, feverfew
   extracts, and combinations thereof. In a particularly preferred embodiment, the
15 tropoelastin promoter is selected from blackberry extracts, feverfew extracts, and
   combinations thereof.
            By "blackberry extract," it is meant a blend of compounds isolated from the plant
   of the genus Rubus, and preferably Rubusfruticosus. In one embodiment, the
   compounds are isolated from the flowers of the plant. In a further embodiment, the
20 compounds are isolated from dried flowers of the plant. Such compounds may be
   isolated from one or more part of the plant (e.g., the whole plant, flower, seed, root,
   rhizome, stem, fruit and/or leaf of the plant). In a preferred embodiment, the blackberry
   extract is a blackberry leaf extract. One particularly suitable blackberry extract is
   produced by extracting the leaves of Rubusfruticosus with a mixture of water and
25 ethanol compounded to an activity of about 5% to about 10%, with a maltodextrin
   matrix, commercially available from Symrise Inc. of Teterboro, NJ, and is sold under the
   name SYMMATRIX.
           Compositions of the present invention may include a cosmetically effective
   amount of one or more tropoelastin promoters such as those described above. The
30 compositions preferably include, on an active basis, from about 0.1% to about 10% of the
                                                 10

   tropoelastin promoters, more preferably from about 0.5% to about 5% of tropoelastin
   promoters, and most preferably from about 0.5% to about 2% of the tropoelastin
   promoters.
             "Collagen promoter," as used herein, refers to compounds that possess the
 5 biological activity of enhancing the production of collagen. "Non-retinoid collagen
   promoters" according to the present invention include all natural or synthetic
   compounds that are not retinoids, or derived from retinoids, and are capable of
   enhancing the production of collagen in the human body.
             Examples of suitable collagen promoters include, but are not limited to the
10 following: Retinoids including retinol, retinaldehyde, and retinoic acid, extracts of
   feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium), extracts of Centella asiatica, and extracts of
   Siegesbeckia orientalis; extracts of soy; collagen-promoting peptides; ursolic acid; and
   asiaticoside.
             Centella asiatica, also known as Violette marronne on Reunion Island, Gotu Kola
15 or Indian pennywort in India, Centella repanda in North America, and Talapetraka in
   Madagascar, is a polymorphous herb and belongs to the family of Umbelliferae
   (Apiaceae), particularly to the Hydrocotyle subfamily. It grows wild throughout the
   tropics and prefers moist and shady regions at an altitude of about 600 to 1200 meters
   above sea level. Centella asiatica has three varieties: Typica, Abyssinica, and Floridana.
20 The herb is known and used for its healing, sedative, analgesic, antidepressant, antiviral
   and antimicrobial properties. The biological activity of the herb appears to be due to the
   presence of triterpene molecules in the herb. A suitable extract of Centella asiatica is
   available as TECA from Bayer Consumer HealthCare of Basel, Switzerland.
             By "extracts of Siegesbeckia orientalis," is meant any of various extracts of the
25 plant Siegesbeckia orientalis, including Darutoside available from Sederma (Croda
   International Group of Edison, NJ).
             Suitable collagen-promoting peptides include the following matrikine peptides,
   (i.e., a peptide derived from the degradation of extracellular matrix proteins - collagen,
   elastin, or proteoglycan) including palmitoyl pentapeptides, such as MATRIXYL from
30 Sederma (Croda International Group of Edison, NJ); GHK copper peptide available as
                                                  11

   PROCYTE from Photomedex of Montgomeryville, PA;Palmitoyl GHK peptide available as
   Biopoeptide CL from Sederma (Croda International Group of Edison, NJ); Biomimetic
   tetrapeptides, such as those available as Chronoline Tri Peptide from Unipex of Qu bec,
   Canada ; and Palmitoyl tri-peptide, available as Syn-Coll from DSM of Basel, Switzerland.
 5          Ursolic acid is also known as pentacyclic triterpene acid, Prunol, Malol, Urson,
   beta-ursolic acid and 3-Beta-Hydroxy-Urs-12-En-28-Oic Acid. It is commercially available
   for example from Sigma-Aldrich of St. Louis, MO.
            Asiaticoside, also known chemically as: [6-[[3,4-dihydroxy-6-(hydroxymethyl)-5
   (3,4,5-trihydroxy-6-methyloxan-2-yl)oxyoxan-2-yl]oxymethyl]-3,4,5-trihydroxyoxan-2-yl]
10 10,11-di hyd roxy-9-(hyd roxymethyl)-1,2,6a,6b,9,12a-hexamethyl
   2,3,4,5,6,6a,7,8,8a,10,11,12,13,14b-tetradecahydro-1H-picene-4a-carboxylate)is
   commercially available for example from Bayer Sant6 Familiale Division Serdex, 69,
   Boulevard Victor Hugo 93400 SAINT-OUEN France.
            Compositions of the present invention may include a cosmetically effective
15 amount of one or more collagen promoters. The compositions preferably include, on an
   active basis, from about 0.1% to about 10% of the collagen promoters, more preferably
   from about 0.5% to about 5% of collagen promoters, and most preferably from about
   0.5% to about 2% of the collagen promoters.
            The compositions of the present invention may comprise additionally at least one
20 skin lightening active agent. Examples of suitable skin lightening active agents include,
   but are not limited to, tyrosinase inhibitors, melanin-degradation agents, melanosome
   transfer inhibiting agents including PAR-2 antagonists, exfoliants, sunscreens, retinoids,
   antioxidants, Tranexamic acid, tranexamic acid cetyl ester hydrochloride, skin bleaching
   agents, linoleic acid, adenosine monophosphate disodium salt, Chamomilla extract,
25 allantoin, opacifiers, talcs and silicas, zinc salts, and the like, and other agents as
   described in Solano et a. Pigment Cell Res. 19 (550-571) and Ando et al. Int J Mol Sci 11
   (2566-2575).
            Examples of suitable tyrosinase inhibitors include but, are not limited to, Vitamin
   C and its derivatives, Vitamin E and its derivatives, Kojic Acid, Arbutin, resorcinols,
30 hydroquinone, Flavones e.g. Licorice flavanoids, Licorice root extract, Mulberry root
                                                    12

   extract, Dioscorea Coposita root extract, Saxifraga extract and the like, Ellagic acid,
   Salicylates and derivatives, Glucosamine and derivatives, Fullerene, Hinokitiol, Dioic acid,
   Acetyl glucosamine, 5,5'-dipropyl-biphenyl-2,2'-diol (Magnolignan), 4-(4-hydroxyphenyl)
   2-butanol (4-HPB), combinations of two or more thereof, and the like. Examples of
 5 vitamin C derivatives include, but are not limited to, ascorbic acid and salts, Ascorbic
   Acid-2-Glucoside, sodium ascorbyl phosphate, magnesium ascorbyl phosphate, and
   natural extract enriched in vitamin C. Examples of vitamin E derivatives include, but are
   not limited to, alpha-tocopherol, beta, tocopherol, gamma-tocopherol, delta-tocopherol,
   alpha-tocotrienol, beta-tocotrienol, gamma-tocotrienol, delta-tocotrienol and mixtures
10 thereof, tocopherol acetate, tocopherol phosphate and natural extracts enriched in
   vitamin E derivatives. Examples of resorcinol derivatives include, but are not limited to,
   resorcinol, 4-substituted resorcinols like 4-alkylresorcinols such as 4-butyresorcinol
   (rucinol), 4-hexylresorcinol (Synovea HR, Sytheon), phenylethyl resorcinol (Symwhite,
   Symrise), 1-(2,4-dihydroxyphenyl)-3-(2,4-dimethoxy-3-methylphenyl)-Propane (nivitol,
15 Unigen) and the like and natural extracts enriched in resorcinols. Examples of salicylates
   include, but are not limited to, 4-methoxy potassium salicylate, salicylic acid,
   acetylsalicylic acid, 4-methoxysalicylic acid and their salts. In certain preferred
   embodiments, the tyrosinase inhibitors include a 4-substituted resorcinol, a vitamin C
   derivative, or a vitamin E derivative. In more preferred embodiments, the tyrosinase
20 inhibitor comprises Phenylethyl resorcinol, 4-hexyl resorcinol, or ascorbyl-2-glucoside.
            Examples of suitable melanin-degradation agents include, but are not limited to,
   peroxides and enzymes such as peroxidases and ligninases. In certain preferred
   embodiments, the melanin-inhibiting agents include a peroxide or a ligninase.
            Examples of suitable melanosome transfer inhibiting agents include PAR-2
25 antagonists such as soy trypsin inhibitor or Bowman-Birk Inhibitor, Vitamin B3 and
   derivatives such as Niacinamide, Essential soy, Whole Soy, Soy extract. In certain
   preferred embodiments, the melanosome transfer inhibiting agents includes a soy
   extract or niacinamide.
            Examples of exfoliants include, but are not limited to, alpha-hydroxy acids such as
30 lactic acid, glycolic acid, malic acid, tartaric acid, citric acid, or any combination of any of
                                                    13

   the foregoing, beta-hydroxy acids such as salicylic acid, polyhydroxy acids such as
   lactobionic acid and gluconic acid, and mechanical exfoliation such as
   microdermabrasion. In certain preferred embodiments, the exfoliants include glycolic
   acid or salicylic acid.
 5          Examples of retinoids include, but are not limited to, retinol (Vitamin A alcohol),
   retinal (Vitamin A aldehyde), retinyl acetate, retinyl propionate, retinyl linoleate, retinoic
   acid, retinyl palmitate, isotretinoin, tazarotene, bexarotene, Adapalene, combinations of
   two or more thereof and the like. In certain preferred embodiments, the retinoid is
   selected from the group consisting of retinol, retinal, retinyl acetate, retinyl propionate,
10 retinyl linoleate, and combinations of two or more thereof. In certain more preferred
   embodiments, the retinoid is retinol.
            Examples of antioxidants include, but are not limited to, water-soluble
   antioxidants such as sulfhydryl compounds and their derivatives (e.g., sodium
   metabisulfite and N-acetyl-cysteine, glutathione), lipoic acid and dihydrolipoic acid,
15 stilbenoids such as resveratrol and derivatives, lactoferrin, iron and copper chelators and
   ascorbic acid and ascorbic acid derivatives (e.g., ascobyl-2-glucoside, ascorbyl palmitate
   and ascorbyl polypeptide). Oil-soluble antioxidants suitable for use in the compositions
   of this invention include, but are not limited to, butylated hydroxytoluene, retinoids (e.g.,
   retinol and retinyl palmitate), tocopherols (e.g., tocopherol acetate), tocotrienols, and
20 ubiquinones. Natural extracts containing antioxidants suitable for use in the
   compositions of this invention, include, but not limited to, extracts containing flavonoids
   and isoflavonoids and their derivatives (e.g., genistein and diadzein), extracts containing
   resveratrol and the like. Examples of such natural extracts include grape seed, green tea,
   black tea, white tea, pine bark, feverfew, parthenolide-free feverfew, oat extracts,
25 blackberry extract, cotinus extract, soy extract, pomelo extract, wheat germ extract,
   Hesperedin, Grape extract, Portulaca extract, Licochalcone, chalcone, 2,2'-dihydroxy
   chalcone, Primula extract, propolis, and the like.
            Compositions of the present invention may include a cosmetically effective
   amount of one or more anti-inflammatory compounds.
                                                  14

            Examples of suitable anti-inflammatory agents include substituted resorcinols,
   (E)-3-(4-methylphenylsulfonyl)-2-propenenitrile (such as "Bay 11-7082," commercially
   available from Sigma-Aldrich of St. Louis, Missouri), tetrahydrocurcuminoids (such as
   Tetrahydrocurcuminoid CG, available from Sabinsa Corporation of Piscataway, NJ),
 5 extracts and materials derived from the following: Phellodendron amurense Cortex
   Extract (PCE), Non-Denatured Soy (Glycine max), Feverfew (Tanacetum parthenium),
   Ginger (Zingiber officinale), Ginko (Ginkgo biloba), Madecassoside (Centella asiatica
   extract ingredient), Cotinus (Cotinus coggygria), Butterbur Extract (Petasites hybridus),
   Goji Berry (Lycium barbarum), Milk Thistle Extract (Silybum marianum), Honeysuckle
10 (Lonicerajaponica), Basalm of Peru (Myroxylon pereirae), Sage (Salvia officinalis),
   Cranberry Extract (Vaccinium oxycoccos), Amaranth Oil (Amaranthus cruentus),
   Pomegranate (Punica granatum), Yerbe Mate (Ilexparaguariensis Leaf Extract), White
   Lily Flower Extract (Lilium candidum), Olive Leaf Extract (Olea europaea), Phloretin (apple
   extract), Oat Flour (Aveena sativa), Lifenol (Hops: Humulus lupulus) Extract, Bugrane P
15 (Ononis spinosa), Licochalcone (Licorice: Glycyrrhiza inflate extract ingredient), Symrelief
   (Bisabolol and Ginger extract), combinations of two or more thereof, and the like.
            In one embodiment, the anti-inflammatory agent is a resorcinol. Particularly
   suitable substituted resorcinols include 4-hexyl resorcinol and 4-octylresorcinol,
   particularly 4-hexyl resorcinol. 4-Hexyl resorcinol is commercially available as SYNOVEA
20 HR from Sytheon of Lincoln Park, NJ. 4-Octylresorcinol is commercially available from
   City Chemical LLC of West Haven, Connecticut.
            By "extracts of feverfew," it is meant extracts of the plant "Tanacetum
   parthenium," such as may be produced according to the details set for the in US Patent
   Application Publication No. 2007/0196523, entitled "PARTHENOLIDE FREE BIOACTIVE
25 INGREDIENTS FROM FEVERFEW (TANACETUM PARTHENIUM) AND PROCESSES FOR
   THEIR PRODUCTION." One particularly suitable feverfew extract is commercially
   available as about 20% active feverfew, from Integrated Botanical Technologies of
   Ossining, NY.
            In one embodiment, the topical composition comprises hyaluronic acid. The
30 hyaluronic acid may be linear, cross-linked, or a mixture of linear and cross-linked
                                                 15

   hyaluronic acid. It may be in a salt form, such as sodium hyaluronate. The molecular
   weight of the hyaluronic acid may vary as desired from very low molecular weight to very
   high molecular weight.
            A commercially available cross-linked hyaluronic acid useful in the present
 5 invention is HyaCare* Filler CL from Evonik Industries AG. HyaCare* Filler CL is a
   fermentation-derived high-quality biopolysaccharide of high purity which is obtained by
   a solvent-free process. It is skin-identical hyaluronic acid with a medium molecular
   weight of 700 kDa.
            Another commercially available cross-linked hyaluronic acid useful in the present
10 invention is Hylasome* EG10, sold by Vantage Specialty Ingredients.
            The cross-linked hyaluronic acid may be prepared as known in the art. For
   example, natural or synthetic sources of linear hyaluronic acid may be cross-linked with a
   variety of cross-linkers, including divinyl sulfone (DVS), formaldehyde, polyanhydrides,
   polyaldehydes, polyhydric alcohols, carbodiimides, epichlorohydrin, ethylene glycol
15 diglycidylether, butanediol diglycidylether, polyglycerol polyglycidylether, polyethylene
   glycol, polypropylene glycol diglycidylether, bis- or poly-epoxy cross-linkers such as
   1,2,3,4-diepoxybutane or 1,2,7,8-diepoxyoctane, or other cross-linkers known in the art.
   The degree of cross-linking may be adjusted also as known in the art.
   In another embodiment, the composition comprises a citrus fruit extract, for example a
20 lemon peel extract.
   Other Ingredients
            The compositions of the present invention are applied topically to human skin
   or hair. Accordingly, the composition may further include cosmetically acceptable
   topical ingredients as known in the personal care art for use with gel cream
25 formulations of the oil-in-water emulsion type.
             In certain preferred embodiments, the composition comprises one or more
   topical ingredients selected from the group consisting of: surfactants, chelating agents,
   additional emollients, humectants, conditioners, preservatives, opacifiers, fragrances and
   the like.
                                                   16

            Additional emollients include compounds that help to maintain the soft, smooth,
   and pliable appearance of the skin (e.g., by remaining on the skin surface or in the
   stratum corneum to act as a lubricant). Examples of suitable emollients include those
   found in Chapter 35, pages 399-415 (Skin Feel Agents, by G Zocchi) in Handbook of
 5 Cosmetic Science and Technology (edited by A. Barel, M. Paye and H. Maibach, Published
   in 2001 by Marcel Dekker, Inc New York, NY), and include, but are not limited to,
   petrolatum, hexyldecyl stearate and plant, nut, and vegetable oils such as macadamia
   nut oil, rice bran oil, grape seed oil, palm oil, prim rose oil, hydrogenates peanut oil, and
   avocado oil.
10          What is meant by a humectant is a compound intended to increase the water
   content of the top layers of skin (e.g., hygroscopic compounds). Examples of suitable
   humectants include those found Chapter 35, pages 399-415 (Skin Feel Agents, by G
   Zocchi) in Handbook of Cosmetic Science and Technology (edited by A. Barel, M. Paye
   and H. Maibach, Published in 2001 by Marcel Dekker, Inc New York, NY) and include, but
15 are not limited to, glycerin, sorbitol or trehalose (e.g., a,ca- trehalose, pp-trehalose, a,p
   trehalose) or a salt or ester thereof (e.g., trehalose 6-phosphate).
            What is meant by a surfactant is a surface-active agent intended to cleanse or
   emulsify. Examples of suitable surfactants include those found in Chapter 37, pages 431
   450 (Classification of surfactants, by L. Oldenhove de Guertechin) in Handbook of
20 Cosmetic Science and Technology (edited by A. Barel, M. Paye and H. Maibach, Published
   in 2001 by Marcel Dekker, Inc New York, NY) and include, but are not limited to anionic
   surfactants such as sulfates, cationic surfactants such as betaines, amphoteric surfactants
   such as sodium coco glycinate, noionic surfactants such as alkyl polyglucosides.
            Examples of suitable chelating agents include those which are capable of
25 protecting and preserving the compositions of this invention. Preferably, the chelating
   agent is ethylenediamine tetracetic acid ("EDTA"), and more preferably is tetrasodium
   EDTA, available commercially from Dow Chemical Company of Midland, Michigan under
   the trade name VERSENE 100XL.
            Suitable preservatives include, for example, parabens, quaternary ammonium
30 species, phenoxyethanol, benzoates, DMDM hydantoin, organic acids and are present in
                                                   17

   the composition in an amount, based upon the total weight of the composition, from
   about 0 to about 1 percent or from about 0.05 percent to about 0.5 percent.
            Any of a variety of conditioners that impart additional attributes, such as gloss to
   the hair, are suitable for use in this invention. Examples include, but are not limited to,
 5 volatile silicone conditioning agent having an atmospheric pressure boiling point less
   than about 220 C. Examples of suitable volatile silicones nonexclusively include
   polydimethylsiloxane, polydimethylcyclosiloxane, hexamethyldisiloxane, cyclomethicone
   fluids such as polydimethylcyclosiloxane available commercially from Dow Corning
   Corporation of Midland, Michigan under the tradename, "DC-345" and mixtures thereof,
10 and preferably include cyclomethicone fluids. Other suitable conditioners include
   cationic polymers, including polyquarterniums, cationic guar, and the like.
            Any of a variety of commercially available pearlescent or opacifying agents are
   suitable for use in the composition. Examples of suitable pearlescent or opacifying
   agents include, but are not limited to, mono or diesters of (a) fatty acids having from
15 about 16 to about 22 carbon atoms and (b) either ethylene or propylene glycol; mono or
   diesters of (a) fatty acids having from about 16 to about 22 carbon atoms (b) a
   polyalkylene glycol of the formula: HO-(JO)a-H, wherein J is an alkylene group having
   from about 2 to about 3 carbon atoms; and a is 2 or 3; fatty alcohols containing from
   about 16 to about 22 carbon atoms; fatty esters of the formula: KCOOCH 2L, wherein K
20 and L independently contain from about 15 to about 21 carbon atoms; inorganic solids
   insoluble in the shampoo composition, and mixtures thereof.
            Any fragrance compositions suitable for use on skin may be used in accord with
   the present invention.
            The composition may comprise a thickener such as hydroxyethyl acrylate/sodium
25 acryloyldimethyl taurate copolymer. Such an ingredient is commercially available as
   Sepimax* Cfrom Seppic. In one embodiment, the composition comprises about 0.1 to
   about 10, or about 1 to about 8, weight % thickener.
            The amount and selection of the thickener allows for stabilization of the gel
   cream while maintain gel cream aesthetic and skin feel.
                                                  18

           The composition may contain for example suitable gelling agents such as natural
   gums, acrylic acid and acrylate polymers and copolymers, and cellulose derivatives (e.g.,
   hydroxymethyl cellulose and hydroxypropyl cellulose). Suitable gelling agents for oils
   (such as mineral oil) include, but are not limited to, hydrogenated
 5 butylene/ethylene/styrene copolymer and hydrogenated ethylene/propylene/styrene
   copolymer. Such gels typically contains between about 0.1% and 5%, by weight, of such
   gelling agents.
           The additional cosmetically active agent may be present in a composition in any
   suitable amount, for example, in an amount of from about 0.0001% to about 20% by
10 weight of the composition, e.g., about 0.001% to about 10% such as about 0.01% to
   about 5%. In certain preferred embodiments, in an amount of 0.1% to 5% and in other
   preferred embodiments from 1%to 2%.
           The composition, and formulations and products containing such composition,
   may be prepared using methodology that is well known by an artisan of ordinary skill.
15          In one embodiment, the composition comprises dimethicone, carbomers,
   glycerin, beeswax, polyacrylamide, laureth-7, C13-14 isoparaffin, water, chlorphenesin,
   ethylhexylglycerin, phenoxyethanol, cetearyl olivate, sorbitan olivate, dimethicone,
   dimethicone crosspolymer, sodium hydroxide, dimethiconol, vinyl dimethicone
   crosspolymer, C12-14 pareth-12, sodium hyaluronate, and extract of Pichia anomala.
20
                                                 19

   Methods
            The present invention further comprises a method of improving the barrier
   function and moisturization of skin by applying to skin in need of improving skin barrier
   function and moisturization the composition of the invention. The method comprises for
 5 example topically applying the composition to skin in in need of improving skin barrier
   function and moisturization. Such topical application may be to any skin in need of
   treatment on the body, for example skin of the face, lips, neck, chest, back, arms, axilla,
   hands, feet and/or legs.
            The present invention further comprises a method of improving the appearance
10 of at least one sign of skin aging by applying to skin in need of improving the appearance
   of at least one sign of skin aging the composition of the invention. The method
   comprises for example topically applying the composition to skin in need of treatment of
   at least one sign of skin aging. Such topical application may be to any skin in need of
   treatment on the body, for example skin of the face, lips, neck, chest, back, arms, axilla,
15 hands, feet and/or legs.
            Any suitable method of applying the composition to the skin in need may be
   used. For example, the composition may be applied directly from a package to the skin
   in need, by hand to the skin in need, or may be transferred from a substrate such as a
   wipe or mask, or a combination of two or more thereof. In other embodiments, the
20 composition may be applied via a dropper, tube, roller, spray, and patch or added to a
   bath or otherwise to water to be applied to the skin, and the like. The composition may
   be applied in a variety of manners /forms, including, without limitation, as a leave-on
   cream, mask, and / or serum.
            The following non-limiting examples further illustrate the present invention.
25
                                                 20

  Example 1
          A topical gel cream composition according to the invention was made having the
  following ingredients.
                                          TABLE 1
   INCI US                                   Primary FUNCTION                  Weight
   Dimethicone                               EMOLLIENT                         3.5
   Carbomer                                 VISCOSITY INCREASING               0.15
   Glycerin                                  HUMECTANT                         6
   Synthetic Beeswax                         FILM FORMING AGENT                0.5
   Polyacrylamide;Laureth-7;C13-14          VISCOSITY INCREASING               2
   Isoparaffin
   Water                                     SOLVENT                           75.23
   Chlorphenesin                             PRESERVATIVE                      0.2
   Ethylhexylglycerin;Phenoxyethanol         PRESERVATIVE                      0.8
   Cetearyl Olivate;Sorbitan Olivate         EMULSIFIER                        2
   Dimethicone;Dimethicone                   SKIN CONDITIONER                  1.5
   Crosspolymer
   Sodium Hydroxide                          PH ADJUSTER                       0.02
   Dimethicone;Dimethiconol                                                    2
   Dimethicone/Vinyl Dimethicone                                               1
   Crosspolymer; C12-14 Pareth -12
   Sodium Hyaluronate                        SKIN CONDITIONER                  0.1
   Aq. Solution of extract of Pichia                                           5
   anomala
5
                                             21

  Example 2
          A topical gel cream composition according to the invention was made having the
  following ingredients.
                                              TABLE 2
  INCI US                                Primary FUNCTION              Weight
  Dimethicone                            EMOLLIENT                     3
  Glycerin                               HUMECTANT                     5
  Steareth-10                            EMULSIFIER                    0.5
  Sclerotium Gum                         VISCOSITY CONTROLLER          0.4
  Water                                  SOLVENT                       77.4
  Chlorphenesin                          PRESERVATIVE                  0.2
  Ethylhexylglycerin;Phenoxyethanol      PRESERVATIVE                  0.8
  Cetearyl Olivate;Sorbitan Olivate      EMULSIFIER                    1.5
  Dimethicone;Dimethicone                SKIN CONDITIONER              2.5
  Crosspolymer
  Dimethicone;Dimethiconol                                             2
  Glyceryl Dilaurate                     EMOLLIENT                     0.5
  Hydroxyethyl Acrylate/Sodium                                         1.2
  Acryloyldimethyl Taurate Copolymer
  Aq. Solution of extract of Pichia                                    5
  anomala
5
                                             22

   Claims:
   1.      Atopical composition comprising:
           (a)0.5 to 25weight percent of glycerin;
           (b)0.1 to 5weight percent of cetearyl olivate;
 5         (c)0.1 to 5weight percent of sorbitan olivate; and
           (d)0.01 to 1 weight percent of extract of Pichia anomala; wherein the
   composition issubstantially free of fatty alcohols and is in the form of a gel cream.
   2.      The composition of claim 1 having a pH of less than about 7.
   3.      The composition of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the extract of Pichia anomala is
10 prepared from a strain of Pichia anomala present on kiwi fruit / leaves.
   4.      The composition of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the extract of Pichia anomala is
   prepared from a strain of Pichia anomala present on sugar cane.
   5.      The composition of any one of claims 1-4, wherein said composition is
   substantially free of cetyl alcohol and behenyl alcohol.
15 6.      A method of improving the barrier function and moisturisation of skin
   comprising applying the composition of any one of claims 1 to 5 to skin in need
   thereof.
   7.      A method of improving the appearance of at least one sign of skin aging
   comprising applying the composition of any one of claims 1 to 5 to skin in need
20 thereof.
   8.      Use of the composition of any one of claims 1 to 5 for the manufacture of a
   medicament for improving the barrier function and moisturisation of skin.
   9.      Use of the composition of any one of claims 1 to 5 for the manufacture of a
   medicament for improving the appearance of at least one sign of skin aging.
                                                23

