                                            ABSTRACT
          A tent frame includes a plurality of tipper supporting poles, one or more of which is
  integrated with an illumination source. A tent frame also includes a control system with a
  connector pivotally connecting the plurality of upper supporting poles and a printed circuit
  board (PCB) configured to be electrically connected with a power source. A tent frame
  further includes an audio system with one or more audio units, each disposed at the control
  system or one of the upper supporting poles.
DB2/ 32581469.1                                   21

1/15
                                                                      Hey Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
                TENT FRAME WITH ILLUMINATION AND AUDIO SYSTEM
                    CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
 [0001] The present application claims priority of Chinese Utility Model Applications CN
 <removed-apn>34.4 filed January 16, 2017, the entire contents of which application is
 incorporated herein for all purposes by this reference.
                                     FIELD OF THE INVENTION
 [00021 The present invention generally relates to tents and tent frames, and more particularly,
 relates to tent frames with illumination and/or an audio system.
                                             BACKGROUND
 [00031 Most existing tents do not have illumination means. If illumination is desired, in
 particular at night, one often needs to set up a lighting device (e.g.. a lamp) and connect the
 lighting device to a power source or power facility outside of the tent. It is inconvenient,
 time-consuming and cumbersome. In some cases, for instance when a power source or power
 facility outside of the tent is not available, the tent cannot provide desired illumination at all.
 In addition, electrical lines of some existing tents are not protected, which may cause
 potential safety hazard, and adversely affect the appearance of the tent. Further, most
 existing tents do not have any audio system to meet increasing demand of end users.
 [00041 Given the current state of the art, there remains a need for tent frames and tents that
 address the abovementioned issues.
 [00051 The information disclosed in this Background section is provided for an
 understanding of the general background of the invention and is not an acknowledgement or
 suggestion that this information forms part of the prior art already known to a person skilled
 in the art.
DB2/ 32581469.1

                                             SUMMARY
 [0006] The present invention is directed to provide tents and tent frames with illumination
 and an audio system that are convenient, flexible, and/or user and environmentally friendly.
 [0007] In various exemplary embodiments, the present invention provides a tent frame
 including a plurality of upper supporting poles, a control system and an audio system. The
 plurality of upper supporting poles includes one or more illumination supporting poles. Each
 illumination supporting pole includes an illumination groove elongated along a longitudinal
 direction of the illumination supporting pole and at a lower side of the illumination
 supporting pole when the tent frame is unfolded, and an illumination source disposed in the
 elongated illumination groove. The control system includes a first connector pivotally
 connecting the plurality of upper supporting poles at first end portions thereof, and a printed
 circuit board (PCB) configured to be electrically connected with a power source. The audio
 system includes one or more audio units, each disposed at the control system or one of the
 upper supporting poles. The audio system is configured to communicate wirelessly with an
 external electronic device. The illumination source of each illumination supporting pole and
 each audio unit of the audio system are electrically connected with the PCB and powered by
 the power source through the PCB.
 [00081 In an exemplary embodiment, each illumination supporting pole in the one or more
 illumination supporting poles further includes a translucent cover coupled with the elongated
 illumination groove to encase the illumination source. In an exemplary embodiment, the
 illumination source is an LED lighting strip. In some exemplary embodiments, the power
 source is a battery set, an external power source, a solar panel or any combination thereof.
 [00091 In some exemplary embodiments., the control system further includes a top cover, a
 control inner part, and a control outer casing. The top cover is disposed above the first
 connector and coupled with the first connector. The control inner part is disposed below the
 first connector and coupled with the first connector. The control inner part includes a
 plurality of battery compartments each for housing a battery, and a protrusion compartment
 for housing an electrical line or forming an interface that electrically connects the PCB with
 the illumination source of each illumination supporting pole, each audio unit of the audio
 system, the battery, or any combination thereof. The control outer casing covers the PCB, the
 control inner part and the batteries housed in the battery compartments. The control outer
DB2/ 32581469.1                                  2

 casing is removably coupled with the first connector. In an exemplary embodiment, the
 control system further includes a control button to control the operation of the illumination
 source of each illumination supporting pole in the one or more illumination supporting poles,
 and/or the operation of the audio system.
 [00101 In many exemplary embodiments, the PCB of the control system or the audio system
 includes a Bluetooth module to facilitate wireless communication of the audio system with
 the external electronic device.
 [00111 In some exemplary embodiments, the one or more audio units include a first audio
 unit having a first speaker box coupled with the control outer casing and a first speaker
 disposed in the first speaker box and electrically connected with the PCB of the control
 system. In an exemplary embodiment, the first speaker box is disposed below the control
 outer casing at a middle portion thereof, and formed with one or more apertures to distribute
 sound produced by the first speaker.
 [00121 In some exemplary embodiments, the first speaker box is fonned with a plurality of
 holding compartments and is shaped substantially the same as the control outer casing. In
 some exemplary embodiments, the first audio unit in the one or more audio units includes
 two or more speakers, each disposed in a holding compartment in the plurality of holding
 compartments.
 [0013] In an exemplary embodiment, the first audio unit in the one or more audio units
 includes two speakers, and the first speaker box includes four holding compartments. Two of
 the four holding compartments on one side form a first sound reproduction region, and two of
 the four holding compartments on the other side form a second sound reproduction region.
 Of each sound reproduction region, one speaker is disposed in one of the two holding
 compartments, and a vibrating diaphragm is disposed in the other of the two holding
 compartments.
 [00141 In some exemplary embodiments, the one or more audio units include a second audio
 unit disposed at an upper supporting pole in the plurality of upper supporting poles. The
 second audio unit includes a second connector to couple with the one or each upper
 supporting pole, a second speaker box coupled with the second connector, and a second
 speaker disposed in the second speaker box and electrically connected with the PCB of the
 control system. In an exemnplary embodiment. the one or more audio units include a plurality
DB2/ 32581469.1                                   3

 of second audio units, each disposed at a corresponding upper supporting pole in the plurality
 of upper supporting poles.
 [0015] In many exemplary embodiments, an upper supporting pole in the plurality of upper
 supporting poles includes first and second poles pivotally connected with each other by a
 third connector. In some exemplary embodiments, the one or more audio units includes a
 third audio unit having a third speaker box coupled with the third connector, and a third
 speaker disposed in the third speaker box and electrically connected with the PCB of the
 control system.
 [00161 In some exemplary embodiments, each upper supporting pole in the plurality of upper
 supporting poles includes first and second poles pivotally connected with each other by a
 third connector, and the one or more audio units include a plurality of third audio units, each
 disposed at the third connector of a corresponding upper supporting pole in the plurality of
 upper supporting poles.
 [00171 In an exemplary embodiment, an upper supporting pole in the plurality of upper
 supporting poles includes a channel formed along a longitudinal direction of the upper
 supporting pole through a portion or entire length of the upper supporting pole. The channel
 includes a groove, a barrier formed at an outer side of the groove, and a protection eave
 formed above the groove and curved over the barrier. A gap is formed between the barrier
 and the protection eave to allow an electrical line connecting the illumination source or a
 speaker of the audio system with the PCB of the control system to pass through and to be
 placed in the groove.
 [00181 In many exemplary embodiments, the tent frame further includes a plurality of lower
 supporting poles, each having an upper end portion coupled with a second end portion of a
 respective upper supporting pole in the plurality of upper supporting poles. In some
 exemplary embodiments, the tent frame further includes one or more side connecting units,
 each disposed between two adjacent supporting poles and connects the two adjacent
 supporting poles.
 [00191 In some exemplary embodiments, the tent frame further includes a remote control
 wirelessly connected with the control system to control the operation of the illumination
 source of each illumination supporting pole or the operation of the audio system. In an
 exemplary embodiment, the tent frame further includes a holder to accommodate the remote
DB2/ 32581469.1                                  4

 control. The holder is coupled with an upper supporting pole, a lower supporting pole, or a
 side connecting unit, or coupled with a connector disposed at the upper supporting pole, the
 lower supporting pole, or the side connecting unit.
 [00201 Exemplary tent frames of the present invention have other features and advantages
 that will be apparent from or are set forth in more detail in the accompanying drawings,
 which are incorporated herein, and the following Detailed Description, which together serve
 to explain certain principles of exemplary embodiments of the present invention.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [00211 The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated into and constitute a part of this
 specification, illustrate one or more embodiments of the present application and, together
 with the detailed description, serve to explain the principles and implementations of the
 application.
 [00221 FIG. 1 is a schematic view illustrating an exemplary tent frame in an unfolded state in
 accordance with some exemplary embodiments of the present invention.
 [00231 FIG. 2 is a partially disassembled view illustrating an upper structure of the
 exemplary tent frame of FIG. 1.
 [0024] FIG. 3 is a perspective view illustrating a control system and an audio system in
 accordance with a first exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
 [00251 FIG. 4 is a disassembled view illustrating the control system and the audio system of
 FIG. 3.
 [00261 FIG. 5 is a perspective view illustrating a control system and an audio system in
 accordance with a second exemplary embodiment of the present invention.
 [00271 FIG. 6 is a disassembled view illustrating the control system and the audio system of
 FIG. 5.
 [00281 FIG. 7 and FIG. 8 are schematic views illustrating some components of the audio
 system of FIG. 5.
DB2/ 32581469.1                                   5

 [0029] FIG. 9 is a schematic view illustrating an exemplary upper structure including a
 control system and an audio system in accordance with a third exemplary embodiment of the
 present invention.
 [00301 FIG. 10 is a partially disassembled view illustrating the exemplary upper structure of
 FIG. 9.
 [0031] FIG. 11 is a disassembled view illustrating the control system of FIG. 9.
 [00321 FIG. 12 is a schematic view illustrating the exemplary upper structure of FIG. 9 in a
 folded state.
 [00331 FIG. 13 is a schematic view illustrating an exemplary upper structure including a
 control system and an audio system in accordance with a fourth exemplary embodiment of
 the present invention.
 [00341 FIG. 14 is a partially disassembled view illustrating the exemplary upper structure of
 FIG. 13.
 [00351 FIG. 15 is a schematic view illustrating an upper pole in accordance with some
 exemplary embodiments of the present invention.
 [00361 FIG. 16 is a schematic view illustrating the exemplary upper structure of FIG. 13 in a
 folded state.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [00371 Reference will now be made in detail to implementations of the exemplary
 embodiments of the present invention as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The same
 reference indicators will be used throughout the drawings and the following detailed
 description to refer to the same or like parts. Those of ordinary skill in the art will understand
 that the following detailed description is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way
 limiting. Other embodiments of the present invention will readily suggest themselves to such
 skilled persons having benefit of this disclosure.
 [00381 In the interest of clarity, not all of the routine features of the implementations
 described herein are shown and described. It will, of course, be appreciated that in the
 development of any such actual implementation, numerous implementation-specific decisions
DB2/ 32581469.1                                    6

 must be made in order to achieve the developer's specific goals, such as compliance with
 application- and business-related constraints, and that these specific goals will vary from one
 implementation to another and from one developer to another. Moreover, it will be
 appreciated that such a development effort might be complex and time-consuming, but would
 nevertheless be a routine undertaking of engineering for those of ordinary skill in the art
 having the benefit of this disclosure.
 [0039] Many modifications and variations of the embodiments set forth in this disclosure can
 be made without departing from their spirit and scope, as will be apparent to those skilled in
 the art. The specific embodiments described herein are offered by way of example only, and
 the disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims, along with the full
 scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.
 [00401 Embodiments of the present invention are described in the context of tent frames with
 illumination and/or an audio system. Tent frames of the present invention can be of various
 sizes and shapes, including but not limited to gazebos, domes, shelters and other types of tent
 frames. Generally, a tent frame of the present invention includes a plurality of upper
 supporting poles pivotally connected with each other. In various cases, at least one upper
 supporting pole in the plurality of upper supporting poles is an illumination supporting pole,
 i.e., a pole integrated with an illumination source.
 [0041] The tent frame of the present invention also includes a control system and/or an audio
 system. In many cases, the control system includes a connector pivotally connecting the
 plurality of tipper supporting poles and a printed circuit board (PCB) configured to be
 electrically connected with a power source to power the illumination source and/or the audio
 system. The power source can be any suitable power source including but not limited to a
 battery set, an external power source, a solar panel or any combination thereof. In some
 cases, the PCB also includes program(s) or module(s) to control the operation of the
 illumination source and/or the audio system.
 [00421 In various cases, the audio system includes one or more audio units disposed at the
 control system, an upper supporting pole, or both. For instance, in one case, the audio system
 includes only one audio unit disposed at the control system. In another case, the audio
 system includes a plurality of audio units, each disposed at an upper supporting pole. In a
DB2/ 32581469.1                                   7

 further case, the audio system includes two or more audio units, with one disposed at the
 control system and the remaining disposed at the upper supporting pole(s).
 [0043] An audio unit includes one or more speakers housed in a speaker box. In some cases,
 an audio unit also includes a means for coupling the speaker box with the control system or
 an upper supporting pole. As used herein, an audio unit is interchangeable with a
 loudspeaker with/without a coupling means. As used herein, a speaker refers to an individual
 driver or transducer that converts an electrical audio signal to sound waves. In many cases, a
 speaker includes a diaphragm, a horn or other components such as electrical line(s) and
 suspension. In some cases, a speaker is interchangeable with a horn or the like. A speaker
 can be configured in any suitable shapes including but not limited to cone, dome or the like.
 Audio units or speakers of the same audio unit can be the same, or different to produce
 different parts of the audible frequency range and thus to enhance the sound effect.
 [0044] In many cases, the control system or the audio system also includes a wireless
 technology such as Bluetooth technology that wirelessly connects the one or more audio units
 of the audio system with an external electronic device for broadcasting, playing music or the
 like. The external electronic device can be any suitable electronic device including but not
 limited to a mobile phone, an iPad, a laptop, or a computer.
 [00451 Referring now to FIG. 1, there is depicted an exemplary tent frame of the present
 invention in accordance with some exemplary embodiments. As shown, the tent frame
 includes a plurality of upper supporting poles such as upper supporting poles 2. In some
 exemplary embodiments, upper supporting pole 2 is made of multiple pivotally connected
 poles such as two poles 20 pivotally connected with each other by connector 23. The
 plurality of upper supporting poles is pivotally connected with each other by a connector,
 which in some cases is integrated in a control system such as control system 3. In some
 embodiments, the connector or the control system is configured to allow each upper
 supporting pole or pole 20 that is directly connected with the connector or the control system
 to rotate downwardly to fold the tent frame.
 [00461 It should be noted that a tent frame of the present invention can include any suitable
 number of upper supporting poles such as three, four, five or more upper supporting poles. It
 should also be noted that a tent frame of the present invention can include other types of
 supporting poles (e.g., lower, vertical, oblique, or side supporting poles) interconnected
DB2/ 32581469.1                                   8

 directly or indirectly with upper poles and with each other in various different ways. Some
 examples of such tent frames are disclosed in WO 2017/051253,. the entire content of which
 is incorporated herein for all purposes by this reference.
 [00471 By way of example, FIG. 1 illustrates a plurality of lower supporting poles such as
 lower supporting poles 1 connected with the upper supporting poles and supporting the upper
 supporting poles when the tent frame is unfolded. In some exemplary embodiments, the tent
 frame includes additional or optional poles such as one or more side connecting units, each
 disposed between two adjacent supporting poles 1 and connects the two adjacent supporting
 poles. A side connecting unit can be of any suitable configuration, including but not limited
 to a pole, a plurality of poles sequentially connected with each other at adjacent ends, or one
 or more crossed pole pairs connected with each other. A side connecting unit can be the
 same as or different from another side connecting unit in the same tent frame.
 [0048] Referring to FIG. 2, in various exemplary embodiments, among the plurality of upper
 supporting poles 2, one or more upper supporting poles are configured with illumination. In
 an exemplary embodiment, each upper supporting pole is configured with illumination. As
 used herein, a supporting pole with illumination is referred to as an illumination supporting
 pole. In some embodiments, illumination supporting pole 2 includes an illumination groove
 such as illumination groove 26 and an illumination source such as illumination source 21
 disposed in the illumination groove. In various exemplary embodiments, illumination
 groove 26 is elongated along a longitudinal direction of the illumination supporting pole, and
 illumination source 21 is an elongated illumination source including but not limited to
 lighting strips or lighting bands. In some exemplary embodiments, illumination groove 26 is
 formed at a lower side of the illumination supporting pole when the tent frame is unfolded, so
 that the illumination source faces the interior of the tent when the tent is unfolded. In some
 exemplary embodiments, the illumination source is a flexible circuit board such as a light
 emitting diode (LED) strip. The LED strip can emit a light of a single color or a light of
 multiple colors. As used herein, an LED strip refers to an elongated LED lighting source
 including strips, tapes, ribbons or the like.
 [00491 In some exemplary embodiments, illumination supporting pole 2 further includes a
 translucent cover such as translucent cover 22. As used herein, the term "translucent cover"
 refers to a cover made of a material that is transparent to at least a portion or a certain
DB2/ 32581469.1                                   9

 wavelength range of the light emitted from the illumination source. It can be but does not
 necessarily need to be completely transparent to the entire light emitted from the illumination
 source. Translucent cover 22 and illumination groove 26 are coupled with each other, for
 instance, through snap-fitting, press-fitting or any suitable methods, and enclose illumination
 source 21 within.
 [00501 Control system 3 is configured to control the operation of the illumination. For
 instance, control system 3 can be used to turn on/off the illumination, adjust the
 brightness/intensity/color of the illumination, or the like. In various embodiments, control
 system 3 includes a printed circuit board (PCB) configured to be electrically connected with a
 power source such as a battery set, an external power source, a solar panel or any
 combination thereof. In various embodiments, the tent frame of the present invention also
 includes an audio system with one or more audio units disposed at the control system and/or
 the upper supporting pole(s). In such cases, control system 3 is also configured to supply the
 power from the power source to the audio system through the PCB, and in some cases,
 control the operation of the audio system.
 [00511 Referring to FIGS. 3 and 4, in various exemplary embodiments, control system 3
 includes first connector 31 and printed circuit board (PCB) 36. In some exemplary
 embodiments, control system 3 further includes top cover 34, control inner part 32, and
 control outer casing 33. In some exemplary embodiments, control system 3 includes one or
 more additional, optional or alternative components such as a battery or a battery set 35,
 electrical line 37, bottom cover 38, or control button 39. As used herein, an electrical line
 refers to electrical wire(s), via(s), electrically conducting sheet(s), or the like.
 [0052] First connector 31 is configured to pivotally connect the plurality of upper supporting
 poles, for instance through a plurality of slots 312 formed along the periphery of the first
 connector. In some exemplary embodiments, first connector 31 includes a through hole
 formed in the middle of first connector 31 to accommodate the electrical line(s) that connects
 illumination source(s) and/or the audio system with the PCB of the control system. In an
 exemplary embodiment, upper sealing plug 311 is disposed above the through hole of the
 first connector to facilitate fixation of the electrical line(s) and/or to protect the PCB of the
 control system for instance against rain, water, or the like.
DB2/ 32581469.1                                     10

 [0053] Top cover 34 is disposed above first connector 31, and includes at least two uprights
 341 at the lower side of the top cover to couple with the first connector. In an exemplary
 embodiment, upright 341 is formed with a hole to facilitate the coupling.
 [0054] Control inner part 32 is disposed below the first connector and coupled with the first
 connector, and PCB 36 is disposed below control inner part 32. In some exemplary
 embodiments, the control inner part includes protrusion compartment 321 and a plurality of
 battery compartments 322. Protrusion compartment 321 is formed with channel 323 for
 housing electrical line(s) such as electrical line 37 or forming an interface that electrically
 connects the PCB with illumination source(s), the audio system, and/or the battery or battery
 set.
 [00551 In some exemplary embodiment, each of the plurality of battery compartments 322 is
 formed to house a battery. In the illustrated embodiment, the plurality of battery
 compartments is formed around the protrusion compartment and separated by the protrusion
 compartment; and the number of battery compartments is the same as the number of
 illumination supporting poles. In an embodiment, battery spring sheets 351 and 352 are
 disposed below and above the battery or battery set. In an embodiment, control inner part 32
 is configured with positive and negative channels 326 to accommodate electrical lines
 connecting the PCB with battery spring sheets 351 and 352.
 [0056] Electrical line 37 is disposed in channel 323 formed in protrusion compartment 321 of
 control inner part 32. In some exemplary embodiments, electrical line 37 includes a plurality
 of electrical wires such as three, four or more. In an embodiment, an electrical wire has one
 end electrically connected with the illumination source of an illumination supporting pole and
 the other end electrically connected with the PCB. In an embodiment, the PCB is electrically
 connected with the positive and negative battery spring sheets so that the battery or battery
 set supplies power to the PCB, the illumination source(s), and/or the audio system.
 [00571 Control outer casing 33 is configured to accommodate control inner part 32. In
 various exemplary embodiments, after a battery or battery set has been placed in the battery
 compartments, control inner part 32 with the battery or battery set is inserted in control outer
 casing 33 from above. In some exemplary embodiments, the control outer casing has a
 similar contour as the outer side contour of the control inner part such that the control outer
 casing can be sleeved on the control inner part. In an exemplary embodiment, button or knob
DB2/ 32581469.1                                   11

 39 is included below the PCB. The button or knob passes through bottom cover 38 (e.g., the
 bottom of the control outer casing or the control system), for instance through a hole formed
 at the bottom cover so that the button or knob is accessible from the outside and can be used
 to control the operation of the illumination source or the audio system. The button or knob is
 in particular useful when a remote control is not included, or lost, or fails to function.
 [00581 In various exemplary embodiments, control outer casing 33 is also configured to
 removably couple with first connector 31. For instance, in the illustrated embodiment, first
 connector 31 is configured to include sliding groove 313, and stopper 314 disposed at an
 outer side of the sliding groove. Corresponding to sliding groove 313 and stopper 314.,
 control outer casing 33 includes positioning button 331 with positioning protrusion 332.
 Positioning button 331 is configured to be elastic to some extent and slidable along the
 sliding groove of the first connector. In an exemplary embodiment, positioning button 331 is
 disposed or formed at the upper outer side of control outer casing 33, and positioning
 protrusion 332 is formed at the upper end portion of the positioning button.
 [00591 To couple control outer casing 33 with first connector 31, simply push the control
 outer casing upward until positioning protrusion 332 of positioning button 331 engages with
 stopper 314 of first connector 31. Stopper 314 holds positioning button 331, and thus holds
 control outer casing 33 in place. To uncouple control outer casing 33 from first connector 31,
 simply press positioning protrusion 332 to release positioning protrusion 332 from stopper
 314, and push the control outer casing downward. Removable coupling of the control outer
 casing with the first connect allows easy access of the interior of the control system for
 replacement of a battery or to meet other maintenance need.
 [0060] The control system can include further additional, optional or alternative components.
 For instance, in some exemplary embodiments, battery spring sheet sealing plug 325 is
 installed above positive and negative channels 326 to facilitate fixation of electrical line(s)
 and/or to protect the PCB for instance against rain, water, or the like. In some exemplary
 embodiments, bottom cover sealing piece 381 is arranged between the PCB and the control
 bottom cover 38 to protect the PCB for instance against rain, water, or the like. In some
 exemplary embodiments. body sealing plug 324 is disposed at the port on the top of
 protrusion compartment 321, e.g., above channel 323, to facilitate fixation of electrical line(s)
 and to protect the PCB against rain or water.
DB2/ 32581469.1                                 12

 [0061] Still referring to FIGS. 3 and 4, there is depicted audio system 4 including a first
 audio unit disposed at a bottom of control system 3 in accordance with some exemplary
 embodiments of the present invention. The first audio unit includes first speaker box 41
 coupled with the control bottom cover or other components of the control system. In an
 exemplary embodiment, first speaker box 41 is disposed in a middle portion of the control
 bottom cover 38. First speaker 42 is disposed in the first speaker box and electrically
 connected with the PCB of the control system through electrical line 43. In some exemplary
 embodiments, audio system 4 or the PCB of control system 3 includes a module (e.g.,
 Bluetooth module) to connect or pair with an electronic device (e.g., a smartphone, a mobile
 Bluetooth device) so that first speaker 42 can play music or the like.
 [00621 In some exemplary embodiments, the first speaker box is formed with one or more
 apertures to distribute sound produced by the first speaker. By way of example, FIG. 3
 illustrates a plurality of apertures 411 disposed at the bottom of the first speaker box. It
 should be noted that the one or more apertures can be but not necessarily have to be at the
 bottom of the first speaker box since sound can bend around corners by diffraction.
 [00631 In some exemplary embodiments, button or knob 39 connected with the PCB can be
 used to turn on or off the first speaker, and the electronic device (e.g., the mobile Bluetooth
 device) can be used to control the music played by the first speaker. In the illustrated
 embodiment, button or knob 39 is off the center of the bottom cover 38 as the first audio unit
 is disposed in the middle of the bottom cover 38.
 [00641 Referring back to FIGS. 1 and 2, in some exemplary embodiments, control box 3 is
 wirelessly connected with remote control 5, which can be used to turn on/off the illumination
 source(s), adjust the luminance of the illumination source(s), and/or control the operation of
 the first speaker. In an embodiment, to reduce the risk of losing or misplacing the remote
 control, holder 11 is disposed at a supporting pole such as supporting bar 1 to hold the
 wireless remote control. To use the wireless remote control, simply take it off from the
 holder and place it back after the use.
 [00651 An audio unit can include more than one speaker. As an example, FIGS. 5- 8
 illustrates an audio unit including two speakers. As shown, speaker box 61 is disposed below
 control system 3, and includes a plurality of holding compartments such as four holding
 compartments 611. Two of the four holding compartments on one side fonn a first sound
DB2/ 32581469.1                                   13

 reproduction region and two of the four holding compartments on the other side form a
 second sound reproduction region. Of each sound reproduction region, speaker 62 is
 disposed in one of the two holding compartments. Speakers 62 are electrically connected
 with the PCB of the control system through electrical line 63. In some exemplary
 embodiments, one or more sound apertures 623 are formed at the bottom of speaker box 61
 (e.g., at the bottom of the holding compartment with a speaker) to distribute sound produced
 by speaker 62.
 [00661 In some exemplary embodiments, of each sound reproduction region, vibrating
 diaphragm 621 is disposed in the other of the two holding compartments. In an exemplary
 embodiment, vibrating diaphragm 621 is fixed in holding compartment 611 by vibrating
 diaphragm fixing block 622.
 [00671 In some exemplary embodiments, speaker box 61 is shaped substantially the same as
 the control bottom cover, the control outer casing, or the control inner part (e.g., including the
 same number of the holding compartments as the number of the battery compartments). In
 some embodiments, the two holding compartments with the speakers are on diagonal sides of
 the speaker box.
 [00681 In some exemplary embodiments, the holding compartments are separated from each
 other. Speakers 62 and vibrating diaphragms 621 are arranged in the holding compartments
 to provide left and right channels or high and low pitch channels, thereby creating a better
 sound effect. Like speaker box 41, speaker box 61 can be coupled with the control bottom
 cover, the control outer casing, or other components of the control system. In the illustrated
 embodiment, speaker box 61 has a similar shape as bottom cover 38. Two speakers 62 and
 two vibrating diaphragm 621 are disposed in holing compartments corresponding to the
 battery compartments of the control inner part. Button or knob 39 is exposed to the outside
 through the middle of the bottom cover.
 [00691 Alternatively, additionally, or optionally, in some exemplary embodiments, an audio
 unit is installed on an upper supporting pole, on each of a subset of the upper supporting
 poles, or on each of the upper supporting poles. In an exemplary embodiment, an audio unit
 is also disposed at the control system. In another exemplary embodiment, no audio unit is
 disposed at the control system.
DB2/ 32581469.1                                  14

 [0070] As an example, FIGS. 9-12 illustrate a tent frame including four upper supporting
 poles, each with an audio unit installed on it. The audio units are disposed at positions close
 to the control system and symmetric to each other. It should be noted that an audio unit can
 be installed on an upper supporting pole at any suitable position, and the audio units can be
 but not necessarily have to be arranged symmetrically with respect to each other.
 [00711 In many exemplary embodiments, the audio unit includes a coupling means such as
 connector 71 to couple with an upper supporting pole, speaker box 72 disposed below and
 coupled with connector 71, and speaker 73 disposed in the speaker box. Speaker 73 is
 electrically connected with the PCB of the control system, for instance, by electrical line 74,
 so that the PCB can provide power (from the power source) to the speaker and/or control the
 operation of the speaker. Installation of electrical line 74 is similar or the same as electrical
 line 211 that connects the illumination source with the PCB. Connector 71 can be any
 suitable fasteners including but not limited to a clip, a hook, a snap fit, a buckle, or the like.
 In an embodiment, connector 71 is formed with a groove such as groove 711 that fits on an
 upper supporting pole.
 [00721 As another example, FIGS. 13-16 illustrate a tent frame including four upper
 supporting poles, with an audio unit installed at connector 23 of each upper supporting pole.
 The audio unit includes speaker box 81 coupled with connector 23, and speaker 82 disposed
 in speaker box 81 and electrically connected with the PCB of the control system, for instance,
 by electrical line 83.
 [00731 Referring in particular to FIG. 15, in some exemplary embodiments, to accommodate
 the electric line(s), upper supporting pole 2 is formed with a channel along a longitudinal
 direction of the upper supporting pole through a portion or the entire length of the upper
 supporting pole. The channel includes groove 24, barrier 241 formed at an outer side of the
 groove, and protection leave 25 formed above the groove and curved over the barrier. The
 barrier and the protection eave are configured in such a way that a gap is formed between the
 barrier and the protection eave to allow the electrical line(s) connecting the illumination
 source or a speaker of the audio system with the PCB of the control system to pass through
 and to be placed in the groove.    Such a configuration allows easy installation of the electrical
 line(s) and provides protection for the electrical line(s) due the use of the tent frame.
DB2/ 32581469.1                                   15

 [0074] The tent frames of the present invention are convenient, flexible, and user and
 environmentally friendly. As disclosed herein, a tent frame of the present invention includes
 one or more illumination sources to provide illumination, an audio system to play music or
 the like, and a control system to control the operation of the illumination source(s) and/or the
 audio system. The one or more illumination sources are integrated with supporting poles
 (e.g., with the illumination source in the supporting pole) and the audio unit(s) of the audio
 system is disposed at the control system and/or the upper supporting pole(s). The
 illumination source(s), the control system and the audio system are configured in such a way
 that they do not affect the overall appearance and setup of the tent frame and thus a tent
 having the tent frame. Folding and unfolding the tent frame of the present invention is
 similar to or the same as folding and unfolding a tent frame without any illumination means
 or any audio unit. Moreover, the illumination source(s), the control system and the audio
 system have no or minimal effect on the size of the tent frame when folded. For instance,
 FIG. 12 shows a folded tent frame with the audio units folded on the inner sides of the pole
 bundles 20, and FIG. 16 shows a folded tent frame with the audio units folded along with
 connectors 23. Further, with multiple audio units or one audio unit with multiple speakers,
 the tent frame of the present invention can provide better sound effect.
 [0075] The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular
 implementations only and is not intended to be limiting of the claims. As used in the
 description of the implementations and the appended claims, the singular forms "a", "an" and
 "the" are intended to include the plural forms as well, unless the context clearly indicates
 otherwise. It will be understood that the terms "upper" or "lower", "upward" or
 "downward", 'inner" or "outer", and etc. are used to describe features of the exemplary
 embodiments with reference to the positions of such features as displayed in the figures. It
 will be understood that, although the terms "first," "second," etc. may be used herein to
 describe various elements, these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms
 are only used to distinguish one element from another. For example, a first audio unit could
 be termed a second audio unit, and, similarly, a second audio unit could be termed a first
 audio unit, without changing the meaning of the description, so long as all occurrences of the
 "first audio unit" are renamed consistently and all occurrences of the "second audio unit" are
 renamed consistently.
DB2/ 32581469.1                                  16

 WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
 1.       A tent frame, comprising:
          a plurality of upper supporting poles comprising one or more illumination supporting
                  poles, each illumination supporting pole comprising:
                  an illumination groove elongated along a longitudinal direction of the
                           illumination supporting pole, and at a lower side of the illumination
                           supporting pole when the tent frame is unfolded; and
                  an illumination source disposed in the elongated illumination groove;
          a control system comprising:
                  a first connector pivotally connecting the plurality of upper supporting poles at
                           first end portions thereof; and
                  a printed circuit board (PCB) configured to be electrically connected with a
                           power source; and
          an audio system comprising one or more audio units, each disposed at the control
                  system or one of the upper supporting poles, wherein the audio system is
                  configured to communicate wirelessly with an external electronic device,
          wherein the illumination source of each illumination supporting pole and each audio
                  unit of the audio system are electrically connected with the PCB and powered
                  by the power source through the PCB.
 2.       The tent frame of claim 1, wherein each illumination supporting pole in the one or
 more illumination supporting poles further comprises a translucent cover coupled with the
 elongated illumination groove to encase the illumination source.
 3.       The tent frame of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the illumination source is
 an LED lighting strip.
 4.       The tent frame of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the power source is a
 battery set, an external power source, a solar panel or any combination thereof.
 5.       The tent frame of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the control system further
 comprises:
          a top cover disposed above the first connector and coupled with the first connector;
DB2/ 32581469.1                                     17

          a control inner part disposed below the first connector and coupled with the first
                   connector, wherein the control inner part comprises:
                   a plurality of battery compartments, each for housing a battery; and
                   a protrusion compartment for housing an electrical line or forming an interface
                            that electrically connects the PCB with the illumination source of each
                            illumination supporting pole, each audio unit of the audio system, the
                            battery, or any combination thereof;
          a control outer casing covering the PCB, the control inner part and the batteries
                   housed in the battery compartments, and removably coupled with the first
                   connector.
 6.       The tent frame of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the control system further
 comprises a control button to control the operation of the illumination source of each
 illumination supporting pole in the one or more illumination supporting poles, and/or the
 operation of the audio system.
 7.       The tent frame of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the PCB of the control
 system or the audio system comprises a Bluetooth module to facilitate wireless
 communication of the audio system with the external electronic device.
 8.       The tent frame of any one of claims 5-7, wherein the one or more audio units
 comprise a first audio unit, the first audio unit comprising:
          a first speaker box coupled with the control outer casing; and
          a first speaker disposed in the first speaker box and electrically connected with the
                   PCB of the control system.
 9.       The tent frame of claim 8, wherein the first speaker box is disposed below the control
 outer casing at a middle portion thereof. wherein the first speaker box is formed with one or
 more apertures to distribute sound produced by the first speaker.
 10.      The tent frame of claim 8, wherein the first speaker box is formed with a plurality of
 holding compartments and is shaped substantially the same as the control outer casing.
DB2/ 32581469.1                                      18

 11.      The tent frame of claim 10, wherein the first audio unit in the one or more audio units
 comprises two or more speakers, each disposed in a holding compartment in the plurality of
 holding compartments.
 12.      The tent frame of claim 10, wherein the first audio unit in the one or more audio units
 comprises two speakers, and the first speaker box comprises four holding compartments,
 wherein:
          two of the four holding compartments on one side form a first sound reproduction
                  region;
          two of the four holding compartments on the other side form a second sound
                  reproduction region; and
          of each sound reproduction region, one speaker is disposed in one of the two holding
                  compartments, and a vibrating diaphragm is disposed in the other of the two
                  holding compartments.
 13.      The tent frame of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more audio
 units comprise a second audio unit disposed at an upper supporting pole in the plurality of
 upper supporting poles, wherein the second audio unit comprises:
          a second connector to couple with the one or each upper supporting pole;
          a second speaker box coupled with the second connector; and
          a second speaker disposed in the second speaker box and electrically connected with
                  the PCB of the control system.
 14.      The tent frame of claim 13, wherein the one or more audio units comprise a plurality
 of second audio units, each disposed at a corresponding upper supporting pole in the plurality
 of upper supporting poles.
 15.      The tent frame of any one of the preceding claims, wherein an upper supporting pole
 in the plurality of upper supporting poles comprises first and second poles pivotally
 connected with each other by a third connector, wherein the one or more audio units
 comprises a third audio unit, the third audio unit comprising:
          a third speaker box coupled with the third connector; and
          a third speaker disposed in the third speaker box and electrically connected with the
                  PCB of the control system.
DB2/ 32581469.1                                   19

 16.      The tent frame of claim 15, wherein each upper supporting pole in the plurality of
 upper supporting poles comprises first and second poles pivotally connected with each other
 by a third connector, wherein the one or more audio units comprise a plurality of third audio
 units, each disposed at the third connector of a corresponding upper supporting pole in the
 plurality of upper supporting poles.
 17.      The tent frame of any one of the preceding claims, wherein an upper supporting pole
 in the plurality of upper supporting poles comprises:
          a channel formed along a longitudinal direction of the upper supporting pole through
                  a portion or entire length of the upper supporting pole, wherein the channel
                  comprises a groove, a barrier formed at an outer side of the groove, and a
                  protection eave formed above the groove and curved over the barrier,
          wherein a gap is formed between the barrier and the protection cave to allow an
                  electrical line connecting the illumination source or a speaker of the audio
                  system with the PCB of the control system to pass through and to be placed in
                  the groove.
 18.      The tent frame of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a plurality of
 lower supporting poles, each having an upper end portion coupled with a second end portion
 of a respective upper supporting pole in the plurality of upper supporting poles.
 19.      The tent frame of claim 18, further comprising one or more side connecting units,
 each disposed between two adjacent supporting poles and connects the two adjacent
 supporting poles.
 20.      The tent frame of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising a remote
 control wirelessly connected with the control system to control the operation of the
 illumination source of each illumination supporting pole or the operation of the audio system.
 21.      The tent frame of claim 20, further comprising a holder to accommodate the remote
 control, wherein the holder is coupled with an upper supporting pole, a lower supporting pole,
 or a side connecting unit, or coupled with a connector disposed at the upper supporting pole,
 the lower supporting pole, or the side connecting unit.
DB2/ 32581469.1                                    20

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIG. 1
                       1/15

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIG. 2
                    26
                       2/15

                      Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                  3
                                                           33
              4
                                 FIG. 3
                                   3/15

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                            FIG. 4
                             <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          FIG. 5
                            5/15

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIG. 6
                         6/15

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                             <U+2701><U+2702> <U+2704>
                               <U+2701><U+2702> <U+260E>
                              7/15

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIG. 9
                       8/15

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIG. 10
              26
                       9/15

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIG. 11
                        10/15

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIG. 12
                     <U+2702><U+2702><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIG. 13
                      12/15

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIG. 14
                      13/15

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          2
                       FIG. 15
                        14/15

              Attorney Docket No. 105342-5036-AU
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                   FIG. 16
                         <U+2702><U+2704><U+2701><U+2702><U+2704>

