Abstract
Devices and methods for treating obesity are provided. More particularly, intragastric devices
and devices for inflating and methods of fabricating, deploying, inflating, monitoring, and
retrieving the same are provided.
Fig 8B

00
                                                 -1
                                    INTRAGASTRIC DEVICE
Cross-reference to related application
[0001]     This application is a continuation-in-part of U.S. Application No. 13/011,842 filed
January 21, 2011, the contents of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety, and
is hereby made a part of this specification.
Field of the Invention
[0002]     Devices and methods for treating obesity are provided. More particularly, intragastric
devices and methods of fabricating, deploying, inflating, monitoring, and retrieving the same
are provided.
[0003]     Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be
considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of common
general knowledge in the field.
Background of the Invention
[0004]     Obesity is a major health problem in developed countries. Obesity puts you at
greater risk of developing high blood pressure, diabetes and many other serious health
problems. In the United States, the complications of being overweight or obese are estimated
to affect nearly one in three American adults, with an annual medical cost of over $80 billion
and, including indirect costs such as lost wages, a total annual economic cost of over $120
billion. Except for rare pathological conditions, weight gain is directly correlated to overeating.
[0005]     Noninvasive methods for reducing weight include increasing metabolic activity to
burn calories and/or reducing caloric intake, either by modifying behavior or with
pharmacological intervention to reduce the desire to eat. Other methods include surgery to
reduce the stomach's volume, banding to limit the size of the stoma, and intragastric devices
that reduce the desire to eat by occupying space in the stomach.
[0006]     Intragastric volume-occupying devices provide the patient a feeling of satiety after
having eaten only small amounts of food. Thus, the caloric intake is diminished while the
person is satisfied with a feeling of fullness. Currently available volume-occupying devices

                                                  -2
have many shortcomings. For example, complex gastric procedures are required to insert
some devices.
[0007]      U.S. Pat. No. 4,133,315, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference
in their entirety, discloses an apparatus for reducing obesity comprising an inflatable,
elastomeric bag and tube combination. The bag can be inserted into the patient's stomach by
swallowing. The end of the attached tube distal to the bag remains in the patient's mouth. A
second tube is snaked through the nasal cavity and into the patient's mouth. The tube ends
located in the patient's mouth are connected to form a continuous tube for fluid communication
through the patient's nose to the bag. Alternatively, the bag can be implanted by a gastric
procedure. The bag is inflated through the tube to a desired degree before the patient eats so
that the desire for food is reduced. After the patient has eaten, the bag is deflated. The tube
extends out of the patient's nose or abdominal cavity throughout the course of treatment.
[0008]      U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,259,399, 5,234,454 and 6,454,785, the contents of which are
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, disclose intragastric volume-occupying
devices for weight control that must be implanted surgically.
[0009]      U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,416,267, 4,485,805, 4,607,618, 4,694,827, 4,723,547, 4,739,758,
and 4,899,747 and European Patent No. 246,999, the contents of which are incorporated
herein by reference in their entirety, relate to intragastric, volume-occupying devices for weight
control that can be inserted endoscopically. Of these, U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,416,267, 4,694,827,
4,739,758 and 4,899,747, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their
entirety relate to balloons whose surface is contoured in a certain way to achieve a desired
end. In U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,416,267 and 4,694,827, the contents of which are incorporated herein
by reference in their entirety, the balloon is torus-shaped with a flared central opening to
facilitate passage of solids and liquids through the stomach cavity. The balloon of U.S. Pat. No.
4,694,827, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, has a
plurality of smooth-surfaced convex protrusions. The protrusions reduce the amount of surface
area which contacts the stomach wall, thereby reducing the deleterious effects resulting from
excessive contact with the gastric mucosa. The protrusions also define channels between the
balloon and stomach wall through which solids and liquids may pass. The balloon of U.S. Pat.
No. 4,739,758, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, has
blisters on its periphery that prevent it from seating tightly against the cardia or pylorus.

                                                    -3
 [0010]     The balloons of U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,899,747 and 4,694,827, the contents of which are
 incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, are inserted by pushing the deflated balloon
and releasably attached tubing down a gastric tube. U.S. Pat. No. 4,723,547, the contents of
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety discloses a specially adapted
 insertion catheter for positioning its balloon. In U.S. Pat. No. 4,739,758, the contents of which
are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, the filler tube effects insertion of the
 balloon. In U.S. Pat. No. 4,485,805, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference
 in their entirety, the balloon is inserted into a finger cot that is attached by string to the end of a
conventional gastric tube that is inserted down the patient's throat. The balloon of European
 Patent No. 246,999 is inserted using a gastroscope with integral forceps.
 [0011]     In U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,416,267, 4,485,805, 4,694,827, 4,739,758, and 4,899,747 and
 European Patent No. 246,999, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in
their entirety, the balloon is inflated with a fluid from a tube extending down from the patient's
 mouth. In these patents, the balloon also is provided with a self-sealing hole (U.S. Pat. No.
4,694,827, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety),
 injection site (U.S. Pat. Nos. 4,416,267 and 4,899,747, the contents of which are incorporated
 herein by reference in their entirety), self-sealing fill valve (U.S. Pat. No. 4,485,805, the
contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety), self-closing valve
 (European Patent No. 246,999, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in
their entirety) or duck-billed valve (U.S. Pat. No. 4,739,758, the contents of which are
 incorporated herein by reference in their entirety). U.S. Pat. No. 4,723,547, the contents of
which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, uses an elongated thick plug and
the balloon is filled by inserting a needle attached to an air source through the plug.
 [0012]     U.S. Pat. No. 4,607,618, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference
 in their entirety, describes a collapsible appliance formed of semi-rigid skeleton members
joined to form a collapsible hollow structure. The appliance is not inflatable. It is endoscopically
 inserted into the stomach using an especially adapted bougie having an ejector rod to release
the collapsed appliance. Once released, the appliance returns to its greater relaxed size and
shape.
 [0013]     U.S. Pat. No. 5,129,915, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference
 in their entirety, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference, relates to an
 intragastric balloon that is intended to be swallowed and that inflates automatically under the
effect of temperature. Three ways that an intragastric balloon might be inflated by a change in

                                                   -4
temperature are discussed. A composition comprising a solid acid and non-toxic carbonate or
bicarbonate is separated from water by a coating of chocolate, cocoa paste or cocoa butter
that melts at body temperature. Alternatively, citric acid and an alkaline bicarbonate coated
with non-toxic vegetable or animal fat melting at body temperature and which placed in the
presence of water, can produce the same result. Lastly, the solid acid and non-toxic carbonate
or bicarbonate are isolated from water by an isolation pouch of low-strength synthetic material
which it will suffice to break immediately before swallowing the bladder. Breaking the isolation
pouches causes the acid, carbonate or bicarbonate and water to mix and the balloon to begin
to expand immediately. A drawback of thermal triggering of inflation is that it does not afford
the degree of control and reproducibility of the timing of inflation that is desirable and
necessary in a safe self-inflating intragastric balloon.
Summary of the Invention
[0014]      According to a first aspect, the invention provides an inflation fluid dispenser system
for inflating an inflatable intragastric device, comprising:
            a housing with an inner surface defining a channel having a proximal inlet configured
to be coupled to an inflation fluid container aperture and a distal outlet positioned at a distal
end of the inflation fluid dispenser, wherein the channel is configured to be in fluid connection
with a lumen of a catheter coupled to a proximal aperture of an inflatable instragastric device
having an inner cavity,
            a valve disposed in the channel and configured to transition between a closed state
and an open state,
            a valve control coupled to the valve and configured for manipulation by a user to
transition the valve between the closed state and the open state,
            a pressure gauge configured to measure pressure within the channel between the
valve and distal outlet, and
            a barometric pressure compensation valve configured to release a portion of the
inflation fluid from the inflation fluid container through a vent to achieve a target starting volume
within the inflation fluid container
[0015]      Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, throughout the description and the
claims, the words "comprise", "comprising", and the like are to be construed in an inclusive
sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense; that is to say, in the sense of
"including, but not limited to".

                                                   -5
[0016]      According to a preferred aspect, the invention provides a system for inflating an
inflatable intragastric device, comprising:
            an inflation fluid container having an inflation fluid container aperture and a reservoir
holding an inflation fluid;
            an inflation fluid dispenser securely coupled to the inflation fluid container and
comprising:
                  a housing with an inner surface defining a channel having a proximal inlet
coupled to the inflation fluid container aperture and a distal outlet positioned at a distal end of
the inflation fluid dispenser,
                  a valve disposed in the channel and configured to transition between a closed
state and an open state,
                  a valve control coupled to the valve and configured for manipulation by a user to
transition the valve between the closed state and the open state,
                  a pressure gauge configured to measure pressure within the channel between
the valve and distal outlet, and
                  a barometric pressure compensation valve configured to release a portion of the
inflation fluid from the inflation fluid container through a vent to achieve a target starting volume
within the inflation fluid container;
            an inflatable intragastric device having an inner cavity and a proximal aperture; and
            a catheter coupled to the inflatable intragastric device, the catheter having a lumen
positioned between, and in fluid connection with, the channel of the inflation fluid dispenser
and the proximal aperture of the inflatable intragastric device.
[0017]      According to a preferred aspect, the invention provides a method of delivering an
inflatable intragastric device into a patient's stomach, comprising:
            providing an inflation system, comprising:
                  an inflation fluid container having an inflation fluid container aperture and an
internal reservoir holding an inflation fluid,
                  an inflation fluid dispenser having an inner surface defining a channel, the
channel in fluid communication with the reservoir of the inflation fluid container, and having a
valve disposed in the channel configured to transition between a closed position and an open
position,
                  an inflatable intragastric device having an inner cavity and a proximal aperture,
the inflatable intragastric device at least partially encased by a capsule, and
                  a catheter coupled to the inflatable intragastric device, the catheter having a
lumen positioned between, and in fluid connection with, the channel of the inflation fluid

                                                 -6
dispenser and the proximal aperture of the inflatable intragastric device;
           with the valve in the closed position, delivering the inflatable intragastric device and
the capsule into the patient's mouth and towards a patient's stomach;
            monitoring a first pressure value of the inflatable intragastric device, wherein the first
pressure value provides feedback to an end user indicative of a current location of the
inflatable intragastric device;
           transitioning the valve to the open position when a first target pressure value is
reached, wherein transitioning the valve to the open position causes the inflation fluid to flow
from the reservoir of the inflation fluid container to the cavity of the inflatable intragastric
device;
            monitoring a second pressure value of the inflatable intragastric device, wherein the
second pressure value provides feedback to an end user indicative of a successful inflation or
a failed inflation; and
            removing the catheter from the patient
[0018]     Advantageously, a free-floating, intragastric, volume-occupying device that can be
inserted into the stomach by the patient swallowing it and letting peristalsis deliver it into the
stomach in the same manner that food is delivered, or by positioning it with a catheter, is
desirable.
[0019]     Volume-occupying devices and methods for manufacturing, deploying, inflating,
tracking, deflating and retrieving of such devices are provided. The devices and methods of
the preferred embodiments may be employed for treating over weight and obese individuals.
Methods employing the device of the preferred embodiments may be swallowed by a patient,
with or without a catheter attached. Once in the stomach of the patient, the device is inflated
with a preselected gas or mixture of gases, to a preselected volume. After a predetermined
time period, the device can be removed using endoscopic tools or decreases in volume or
deflate so as to pass through the remainder of the patient's digestive tract.
[0020]      Inflation may be achieved by use of a removable catheter that initially remains in fluid
contact with the device after it has been swallowed by the patient.
[0021]     The volume-occupying subcomponent of devices may be formed by injection, blow
or rotational molding of a flexible, gas-impermeable, biocompatible material, such as, for
example, polyurethane, nylon or polyethylene terephthalate. Materials that may be used to
control the gas permeability/impermeability of the volume-occupying subcomponent include,

                                                 -7
but are not limited to, silicon oxide (SiOx), gold or any noble metal, saran, conformal coatings
and the like, when it is desired to reduce permeability. To enhance gas-impermeable
characteristics of the wall of the device, if desirable, the volume-occupying subcomponent may
be further coated with one or more gas-barrier compounds, or be formed of a Mylar polyester
film coating or kelvalite, silver or aluminum as a metallicized surface to provide a gas
impermeable barrier.
[0022]     In further embodiments, the device employs a delivery state in which the device is
packaged such that the device may be swallowed while producing minimal discomfort to the
patient. In a delivery state, the device may be packaged into a capsule. Alternatively, the
device may be coated with a material operable to confine the device and facilitate swallowing.
Various techniques may also be employed to ease swallowing of the device including, for
example, wetting, temperature treating, lubricating, and treating with pharmaceuticals such as
anesthetics.
[0023]     In other preferred embodiments, the devices may incorporate a tracking or
visualization component that enables physicians to determine the location and/or orientation of
the device within the patient's body. Tracking subcomponents may include incorporating a
barium stripe or geometric shape into the wall of the volume-occupying subcomponent.
Tracking and visualization, may also be achieved by incorporation of a microchip, infrared LED
tag, ultraviolet absorbing compounds, fluorescent or colored compounds and incorporation of
metallized strips and patterns into the volume-occupying subcomponent or other
subcomponents of the device. Such techniques may also be used to obtain certain device
specific information and specifications while the device remains inside the patient's body.
[0024]     In a first preferred aspect, a system is provided for inflating an intragastric balloon,
the system comprising: an inflation catheter, wherein the inflation catheter comprises a needle
assembly comprising a hollow needle, a bell-shaped needle sleeve, and a mechanism for
detachment of the inflation catheter after inflation of a balloon in vivo is complete; an
intragastric balloon comprising a polymeric wall, wherein the polymeric wall comprises one or
more layers, and a balloon valve system comprising a self-sealing septum in a retaining
structure, wherein the septum is configured for piercing by the needle, wherein the retaining
structure comprises a concentric valve system with a smaller inner cylinder housing the
septum and a larger outer cylinder housing a material providing compressive forces against
the bell-shaped needle sleeve of the inflation catheter for inflation and detachment, wherein
the material providing compressive forces is a harder durometer material than the septum, and

                                                -8
wherein the smaller inner cylinder comprises a lip configured for an interference fit with the
bell-shaped needle sleeve to provide sealing of the valve to the inflation catheter sufficient to
maintain the seal during inflation of the balloon; a balloon outer container; and an inflation
source container, wherein the inflation source container is configured to connect to the inflation
catheter; wherein the inflation catheter connected to the intragastric balloon prior to inflation is
of a size and shape configured for swallowing by a patient in need thereof.
[0025]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the polymeric wall comprises a barrier
material comprising one or more of nylon or polyethylene.
[0026]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the polymeric wall comprises a barrier
material comprised of nylon/polyethylene.
[0027]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the polymeric wall comprises a barrier
material comprising of nylon/polyvinylidene chloride/polyethylene.
[0028]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the outer container is selected from the
group consisting of a push-fit capsule, a wrap, and a band, and wherein the outer container
comprises a material selected from the group consisting of gelatin, cellulose, and collagen.
[0029]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the septum is cone-shaped.
[0030]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the inflation source container is
configured to connect to the inflation catheter via a connector or an inflation valve.
[0031]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the inflation catheter is from 1 French
to 6 French in diameter, and is from about 50 cm to about 60 cm in length.
[0032]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the inflation catheter is a dual lumen
catheter comprising an inflation lumen and a detachment lumen, wherein the inflation lumen is
in fluid connection to the inflation source container, and wherein the detachment lumen is
configured for connection to a detachment liquid source container, wherein the detachment
liquid comprises a physiological compatible liquid, and wherein the interference fit is
insufficient to maintain a seal upon application of a hydraulic pressure by the detachment
liquid, such that upon application of the hydraulic pressure to the needle assembly it is ejected
from the balloon valve.

                                               -9
[0033]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the inflation catheter comprises a
single lumen and a structural member providing increased tensile strength, and an inflation
valve configured for connecting the single lumen to the inflation source container and a
detachment liquid source container, wherein the detachment liquid comprises a physiological
compatible liquid, and wherein the interference fit is insufficient to maintain a seal upon
application of a hydraulic pressure by the detachment liquid, such that upon application of the
hydraulic pressure to the needle assembly it is ejected from the balloon valve.
[0034]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the inner cylinder is configured to
control alignment of the needle assembly with the septum, provide a barrier to the needle
piercing the polymeric wall, and provide compression such that the septum reseals after
inflation and needle withdrawal.
[0035]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, a plurality of intragastric balloons is
connected to a single inflation catheter.
[0036]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the inflation catheter is of a uniform
stiffness.
[0037]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the inflation catheter is of a variable
stiffness.
[0038]     In a preferred embodiment of the first aspect, the inflation source comprises a
syringe.
[0039]     In an embodiment of the first aspect, the inflation source is configured to utilize
information regarding inflation pressure as a function of time to provide feedback to a user,
wherein the feedback indicates a condition selected from the group consisting of failure by
mechanical blockage, failure by esophagus constraint, failure by inflation catheter leak or
detachment, and successful balloon inflation.
[0040]     In a second preferred aspect, a method is provided for inflating an intragastric
balloon, the method comprising: providing an intragastric balloon in an outer container, the
intragastric balloon comprising a polymeric wall, wherein the polymeric wall comprises one or
more layers, and a balloon valve system comprising a self-sealing septum in a retaining
structure, wherein the retaining structure comprises a concentric valve system with a smaller

                                                 -10
inner cylinder housing the septum and a larger outer cylinder housing a material configured to
provide compressive forces against a bell-shaped needle sleeve of an inflation catheter,
wherein the material providing compressive forces is a higher durometer material than the
septum, and wherein the smaller inner cylinder comprises a lip configured for an interference
fit with the bell-shaped needle sleeve; providing an inflation catheter comprising a needle
assembly, the needle assembly comprising a hollow needle, a bell-shaped needle sleeve;
piercing the septum by the needle of an inflation catheter, whereby an interference fit is
created between the bell-shaped needle sleeve and the lip of the smaller inner cylinder;
causing the intragastric balloon in an outer container attached by the interference fit to the
inflation catheter to be swallowed by a patient in need thereof; degrading the outer container
so as to permit inflation of the intragastric balloon; inflating the intragastric balloon in the
patient's stomach via the inflation catheter, wherein the inflation catheter is connected to an
inflation fluid source container; and detaching the intragastric balloon from the inflation
catheter, wherein a detachment liquid comprising a physiological compatible liquid is forced
through the inflation catheter to apply hydraulic pressure to the needle assembly such that the
interference fit between the lip and the bell-shaped needle sleeve is broken, the needle
assembly is ejected from the balloon valve and the self-sealing septum reseals.
[0041]      In a preferred embodiment of the second aspect, the inflation catheter is a dual
lumen catheter comprising an inflation lumen and a detachment lumen, wherein the inflation
lumen is configured for fluid connection to the inflation source container, and wherein the
detachment lumen is configured for connection to a detachment liquid source container for
detachment of the balloon.
[0042]      In a preferred embodiment of the second aspect, the inflation catheter is a single
lumen catheter comprising a structural member providing increased tensile strength and an
inflation valve configured for first connecting the single lumen catheter to the inflation source
container and then to a detachment liquid source container for detachment of the balloon.
[0043]      In a preferred embodiment of the second aspect, wherein the method further
comprises monitoring inflation pressure as a function of time and detaching when a
predetermined ending pressure is obtained, wherein successful balloon inflation is indicated by
achievement of the preselected ending pressure, which is based on a starting pressure in the
inflation source and an inflation volume of the balloon.

                                               - 11
[0044]     In a third preferred aspect, a method is provided for deflating an intragastric balloon,
the method comprising: providing an intragastric balloon in an in vivo intragastric environment,
the intragastric balloon comprising a polymeric wall and a valve system, the valve system
comprising a self-sealing valve, a casing, an outer sealing member, a rigid retaining structure,
and a deflation component; wherein the casing has one or more vent pathways and a lip
configured to hold the outer sealing member in place, wherein the outer sealing member is
positioned to block the one or more vent pathways when in place, wherein the rigid retaining
structure provides support to the septum and the outer sealing member, and wherein the
deflation component is situated in the casing and behind the retaining structure; exposing the
deflation component to moisture inside of the balloon via the one or more vent pathways,
whereby the deflation component expands, pushing the retaining structure and thus the outer
sealing member linearly past the lip of the casing to open the one or more vent pathways so as
to provide fluid communication between the in vivo gastric environment and a lumen of the
balloon; and deflating the balloon through the one or more vent pathways.
[0045]     In a preferred embodiment of the third aspect, the deflation component comprises a
solute material encapsulated in a binder material, wherein the deflation component is further
surrounded by moisture limiting material that has a predefined moisture vapor transmission
rate.
[0046]     In a preferred embodiment of the third aspect, the solute material is a
polyacrylamide.
[0047]     In a preferred embodiment of the third aspect, the rigid retaining structure and the
casing has a press fit lock that prevents the rigid retaining structure from being expelled from
the casing after maximum displacement by the deflation component.
[0048]     In a fourth preferred aspect, a method is provided for deflating an intragastric
balloon, the method comprising: providing an intragastric balloon in an in vivo intragastric
environment, the intragastric balloon comprising a polymeric wall, a self-sealing valve system,
and a deflation system, the deflation system comprising a casing, a sealing member, a
plunger, and a deflation component; wherein the casing has one or more vent pathways and is
secured in the polymeric wall, wherein the plunger provides support to the sealing member and
maintains the sealing member in position to block the one or more vent pathways in the casing
when in place, and wherein the deflation component is situated in the casing and behind the
plunger; exposing the deflation component to moisture inside of the balloon via the one or

                                                - 12
more vent pathways, whereby the deflation component expands, pushing the plunger and thus
the sealing member linearly through the casing to open the one or more vent pathways so as
to provide fluid communication between the in vivo gastric environment and a lumen of the
balloon; and deflating the balloon through the one or more vent pathways.
[0049]     In a preferred embodiment of the fourth aspect, the intragastric balloon further
comprises a water retaining material situated between the deflation component and the one or
more vent pathways, wherein the water retaining material is configured to retain water and to
hold it against a surface of the deflation component in order to maintain a constant moisture
environment.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0050]     A preferred embodiment of the invention will now be described, by way of example
only, with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[0051]     FIGS. 1A-D depict a perspective view (FIG. 1A), a side view (FIG. 1B), a top view
(FIG. 1C) and a cross-sectional view (FIG. 1D) of a head assembly of a self-sealing valve
system which contains a self-sealing septum housed within a metallic concentric cylinder.
[0052]     FIGS. 2A-D depict a perspective view (FIG. 2A), a side view (FIG. 2B), a cross
sectional view (FIG. 2C), and a top view (FIG. 2C) of tube system with rings. It includes a
smaller cylinder of a concentric metallic retaining structure into which a septum can be inserted
or otherwise fabricated into, as in the self-sealing valve system of FIGS 1A-D.
[0053]     FIGS. 3A-C depict a perspective view (FIG. 3A), a side view (FIG. 3B), and a top
view (FIG. 3C) of a ring stop - an additional ring placed at the distal end of an inner cylinder to
provide additional compression to ensure the septum material is dense enough to re-seal itself,
as in the self-sealing valve system of FIGS 1A-D.
[0054]     FIGS. 4A-D depict a perspective view (FIG. 4A), a side view (FIG.4B), a cross
sectional view (FIG. 4C) and a top view (FIG. 4D) of a head unit comprising an outer cylinder
of a concentric valve housing comprising a higher durometer material than the inner cylinder,
as in the self-sealing valve system of FIGS 1A-D.

                                                -13
[0055]     FIGS. 5A-C depict a perspective view (FIG. 5A), a side view (FIG. 5B), and a top
view (FIG. 5C) a ring retainer - an additional retaining ring to further enhance the seal between
the metal and the valve silicone, as in the self-sealing valve system of FIGS 1A-D.
[0056]     FIG. 6 depicts a connector for a dual lumen catheter.
[0057]     FIG. 7 depicts an inflation valve.
[0058]     FIGS. 8A-B depicts a universal balloon valve for connection to an inflation catheter
and a balloon encased in an outer container. FIG 8A depicts the valve coupled to the inflation
catheter, and FIG 8B depicts the valve further coupled to the encased balloon.
[0059]     FIGS. 9A-C depict a side view (FIG.9B), a bottom view (FIG. 9B) and a top view
(FIG. 9C) of a dual lumen catheter coupled to a gel cap encapsulating a balloon.
[0060]     FIGS. 10A-D depict a perspective view (FIG. 10A), a side view (FIG. 1OB), a top view
(FIG. 10C), and a cross-sectional view (FIG. 10C) of a bell-shaped needle sleeve.
[0061]     FIGS. 11A-C depict various embodiments of a single lumen catheter. FIG. 11 A
depicts the single lumen catheter with bell-shaped needle sleeve protecting the needle. FIG
11 B shows a perspective cross-sectional view of the single lumen catheter showing detail of
the needle, bell-shaped needle sleeve, and tensile cord. FIG. 11C shows a perspective cross
sectional view of the single lumen catheter showing additional detail of the needle and bell
shaped needle sleeve when seated in the head including the self-sealing valve system of FIGS
1A-D.
[0062]     FIGS. 12A-D depict a perspective view (FIG. 12A), a side view (FIG. 12B), a top view
(FIG. 12C), and a cross-sectional view (FIG. 12C) of a needle sleeve configured to
accommodate a larger diameter tube.
[0063]     FIG. 13 depicts a variable stiffness catheter for administering a gastric balloon.
[0064]     FIGS. 14A-C depict an inflation fluid container system (FIG. 14A) including a
connector (FIG. 14B) to the catheter and a pressure gauge (FIG. 14C).
[0065]     FIG. 15 depicts a stainless steel inflation fluid container.

                                               - 14
[0066]     FIGS. 16A and 16B depict a disposable inflation fluid container with and without a
cap (FIG. 16A and FIG. 16B, respectively).
[0067]     FIG. 17 is a graph depicting pressure as a function of time (pressure decay),
obtained from feedback from an inflation source container.
[0068]     FIG. 18 depicts the expected decay curve for pressure sources using a spring
mechanism or a balloon-within-balloon mechanism.
[0069]     FIGS. 19A and 19B depict an inflation fluid dispenser in isolation (FIG. 19A) and in
connection with an inflation fluid container (19B).
[0070]     FIG. 20 depicts an inflation system for inflating a gastric balloon.
[0071]     FIGS. 21A-B depict a top view (FIG. 21A) and side view (FIG. 21B) of a balloon
showing the configuration of balloon seams for fabricating a balloon which resists bursting in
vivo.
[0072]     FIGS. 22A-D depict various embodiments of an eroding core to achieve deflation of a
balloon. FIG. 22A (perspective view) and FIG. 22B (side view) depict an eroding core with a
protective barrier between the core and the intragastric environment. In another embodiment,
a seal is held in place against the housing by an eroding core (FIG. 22C). After the core
erodes (FIG. 22D), the seal is released from against the housing.
[0073]     FIG. 23 depicts a one-piece seal with protective canopy.
[0074]     FIG. 24A depicts a deflation mechanism utilizing an erodible core in a radial ring
seal, with compression ring to expel the seal once support from the erodible core is removed.
FIG. 24B depicts a deflation mechanism utilizing a seal with eroding core and a push out
spring. FIG. 24C depicts a moisture expanding material that pulls the septum out of position to
cause balloon deflation.
[0075]     FIGS. 25A-B depicts a plug in the wall of the balloon that contains a compressed
pellet or gas releasing pellet. FIG. 25A depicts a compressed view and FIG. 25B depicts an
expanded view of the gas pellet.

                                              -15
[0076]     FIG. 26 depicts a top view of an outermost layer of a balloon "scored" or hatched
with erodible material to create small channels that erode over time.
[0077]     FIGS. 27A-E depicts a composite wall of a balloon including several material layers
(FIG. 27A and FIG. 27B, showing detail of FIG. 27A) that are slowly penetrated by water that
has been injected inside the balloon during the manufacturing process or during the inflation
process, causing rupture of a thin external protective later (FIG. 27C). The water can
penetrate through a hole (FIG. 27D) and the balloon can include a weakened area of a patch
bond to control the rupture location (FIG. 27E).
[0078]     FIGS. 28A-B depict a top view (FIG. 28A) and a cross section (FIG. 28B) of a
pressure sealing button that is adhesively bonded over a perforation in the balloon material for
deflation.
[0079]     FIGS. 29A-B depicts a top view (FIG. 29A), perspective view (FIG. 29B) and
perspective view with inner detail (FIG. 29C) of connecting ports within a septum attached to
the balloon composite wall, wherein the ports contain a water-dissolving or acid-dissolving
material. A plurality of ports and channels can be provided in a configuration utilizing an
expanding material and push-out component as depicted in the system of FIG. 29D
(perspective view with inner detail) and FIG. 29E (cross-section).
[0080]     FIGS. 30A-D depicts a port that encompasses an inflation and deflation mechanism
in the same location. FIG. 30A depicts a cross-section of the mechanism with the seal
blocking the vents. FIG. 30B depicts a cross section of the mechanism with the seal
displaced, enabling fluid communication through the vent. An iso image of the mechanism
with the seal displaced, enabling fluid communication through the vent is provided in FIG. 30C.
An iso image of the mechanism positioned for inflation of the balloon is provided in FIG. 30D.
[0081]     FIGS. 31A-D depicts a deflation port. FIG. 31A depicts a cross-section of the
deflation mechanism with the seal blocking the vents. FIG. 31 B depicts a cross section of the
deflation mechanism with the seal displaced, enabling fluid communication through the vent.
An iso image of the mechanism with the seal blocking the vents is provided in FIG. 31C. An iso
image of the mechanism with the seal displaced, enabling fluid communication through the
vent, is provided in FIG. 31 D.
[0082]     FIG. 32 depicts placement of two balloons in a patient's stomach.

                                               -16
[0083]     FIG. 33 depicts an Obalon Gastric Balloon Assembly.
[0084]     FIG. 34 depicts an extension tube and stopcock with a 3-way valve for use in
conjunction with the Obalon Gastric Balloon Assembly of FIG. 33.
[0085]     FIG. 35 depicts a Procedure Canister with disposable Nitrogen Fill System for use in
conjunction with the Obalon Gastric Balloon Assembly of FIG. 33.
[0086]     FIG. 36 depicts the valve of the Procedure Canister in the 'open' position.
[0087]     FIG. 37 depicts a luer lock plug configured to cover the end of the gauge of the
Procedure Canister.
[0088]     FIG. 38 depicts the valve of the Procedure Canister in the 'open' position and
attached to the Extension Tube.
[0089]     FIG. 39 depicts detail of the stopcock of the Extension Tube with three way valve in
the 'closed' position.
[0090]     FIG. 40 depicts detail of the disposable Nitrogen Fill System.
[0091]     FIG. 41 depicts the Procedure Canister with lever in the 'open' position in advance of
receiving the disposable Nitrogen Fill System.
[0092]     FIG. 42 depicts the Procedure Canister of FIG. 35 with lever in the closed position
after receiving the disposable Nitrogen Fill System.
[0093]     FIG. 43 depicts the valve of the Procedure Canister in the 'closed' position and the
Balloon Ejection Syringe and Obalon Gastric Balloon Assembly attached to the Extension
Tube via the three way valve.
[0094]     FIG. 44 depicts catheter markings employed in conjunction with placement of the
Obalon Gastric Balloon Assembly.
[0095]     FIG. 45 depicts connection of the catheter to the Procedure Canister.

                                                  -17
[0096]      FIG. 46 depicts detail of the stopcock of the Extension Tube with three way valve in
the 'open' position.
[0097]      FIG. 47 depicts the valve of the Procedure Canister in the 'open' position and the
Balloon Ejection Syringe and Obalon Gastric Balloon Assembly attached to the Extension
Tube via the three way valve.
[0098]      FIG. 48 depicts detail of the stopcock of the Extension Tube with three way valve in
the 'closed' position.
Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment
[0099]      The following description and examples illustrate a preferred embodiment of the
present invention in detail. Those of skill in the art will recognize that there are numerous
variations and modifications of this invention that are encompassed by its scope. Accordingly,
the description of a preferred embodiment should not be deemed to limit the scope of the
present invention.
[0100]      The term "degradable" as used herein is a broad term, and is to be given its ordinary
and customary meaning to a person of ordinary skill in the art (and is not to be limited to a
special or customized meaning), and refers without limitation to a process by which structural
integrity of the balloon is compromised (e.g., by chemical, mechanical, or other means (e.g.,
light, radiation, heat, etc.) such that deflation occurs. The degradation process can include
erosion, dissolution, separation, digestion, disintegration, delamination, comminution, and
other such processes.
[0101]      The term "swallowable" as used herein is a broad term, and is to be given its
ordinary and customary meaning to a person of ordinary skill in the art (and is not to be limited
to a special or customized meaning), and refers without limitation to ingestion of a balloon by a
patient such that the outer capsule and its constituents are delivered to the stomach via normal
peristalsis movement. While the systems of preferred embodiments are swallowable, they are
also configured for ingestion by methods other than swallowing. The swallowability of the
system is derived, at least in part, by the outer container size for the self-inflating system and
the catheter and outer container size for the manual inflation system. For the self-inflating
system, the outer capsule is sufficient to contain the inner container and its constituents, an
amount of activation agent injected prior to administration, the balloon size and the balloon

                                                 -18
material thickness. The system is preferably of a size less than the average normal
esophagus diameter.
[0102]     Described herein is an orally ingestible device. In preferred embodiments, the
device is able to traverse the alimentary canal. The device may be useful, for example, as an
intragastric volume-occupying device. The device overcomes one or more of the above
described problems and shortcomings found in current intragastric volume-occupying devices.
[0103]     In order to more clearly describe the subject matter of the preferred embodiments,
different embodiments of the same subcomponent will be described under a single relevantly
titled subheading. This organization is not intended to limit the manner in which embodiments
of different subcomponents may be combined in accordance with the present invention.
Swallowable intragastric balloon system
[0104]     A swallowable, self-inflating or inflatable intragastric balloon system according to
selected preferred embodiments includes the following components: self-sealing valve system
for addition of fluid to the lumen of the balloon or to the inner container ("valve system"), a
balloon in a deflated and compacted state ("balloon") and an outer capsule, container, or
coating ("outer container") that contains the balloon. For self-inflating balloons, an inner
capsule or other container ("inner container") that contains one or more C02 generating
components is present inside the lumen of the balloon. For inflatable balloons, an inflation
fluid source, a catheter and tubing ("inflation assembly") are provided for inflating the balloon
after ingestion or placement in the stomach. In the self-inflating balloon configuration, the
valve is preferably attached to the inner surface of the balloon by an adhesive or other means
(e.g., welding), and provided with an inoculation spacer to prevent puncture of the wall of the
balloon and inner container by a needle or other means for injecting an liquid activation agent
into the lumen of the balloon via the self-sealing valve. A valve providing releasable
attachment of the tubing to the balloon is provided in the inflatable balloon configuration.
Preferably, the self-sealing valve system attached to the balloon (e.g., on its inside surface) in
the inflatable configuration is "universal" or compatible with a swallowable catheter or a
physician-assisted catheter. The valve system serves to allow for balloon inflation using a
miniature catheter that includes a needle assembly and also provides a mechanism for
detachment of the catheter after inflation has been completed.
[0105]     The outer container preferably incorporates the balloon in a compacted state (e.g.,
folded and rolled), preferably with sufficient space to allow for activation liquid to be injected

                                                  -19
into the balloon in the self-inflating balloon configuration, wherein the liquid activation agent
initiates separation, erosion, degradation, and/or dissolution of the inner container and
generation of C02 upon contact with the inflation agent contained within the inner container,
which subsequently causes outer container separation, erosion, degradation, and/or
dissolution due to C02 gas pressure. In the inflatable balloon configuration, the outer container
need only incorporate the balloon in a compacted state.
[0106]      Selected components of a swallowable intragastric balloon system of a preferred
embodiment can include a silicone head with radioopacity ring, trimmed 30 D silicone septum,
Nylon 6 inoculation spacer, compacted balloon, inner container (if self-inflating), and outer
container as constituents of the system in unassembled form. A fully assembled outer
container can include a vent hole aligned with a septum for puncture to inject liquid activation
agent (if self-inflating) or a port for connection of tubing (if inflatable). As discussed further
below, the components of particularly preferred systems possess the attributes described
herein; however, in certain embodiments systems can be employed which utilize components
having other attributes and/or values.
[0107]      Devices according to the preferred embodiments are intended for ingestion by a
patient and deployment without the need to resort to invasive methods. It is therefore
desirable that the device of the preferred embodiments be operable to conform to a compact
delivery state which can be swallowed by a patient with minimal discomfort. Once in the
stomach, it is desirable for the device to assume a substantially larger deployed state. In order
to achieve the transition from a delivery state to a deployed state the device is subjected to
inflation.
[0108]      In order to treat obesity or assist individuals with their weight loss goals, various
embodiments of the intragastric devices described herein are preferably delivered to a
patient's stomach and maintained in the patient's stomach in an inflated state, preferably for at
least thirty days. In some embodiments, the inflated intragastric devices are maintained in a
patient's stomach for a treatment duration of one to three months, and in some embodiments,
the devices are maintained in a patient's stomach up to six months or more. A plurality of
intragastric devices may be delivered to a patient's stomach during a treatment duration. For
example, in some embodiments, up to two or three or more inflated intragastric devices (of the
same size or of two or more different sizes) may be present in a patient's stomach at a point in
time. At the end of treatment, the devices may be removed endoscopically. In other
embodiments, the devices may deflate and pass through the lower gastrointestinal tract. In

                                                    - 20
order to maintain a proper degree of inflation and reduce discomfort and/or side effects for a
patient, the patient may be prescribed one or more prescription drugs to take regularly while
the inflated intragastric device is in the patient's stomach. For example, in some
embodiments, a proton pump inhibitor, an antiemetic, and/or a spasmolytic agent may be
prescribed.
Inner container
[0109]      In order to initiate inflation in the self-inflating configuration, the inflation
subcomponent may require outside inputs such as an activation agent. The activation agent is
preferably injected using a syringe having a needle with a gauge diameter of from 25 to 32.
The needle length is preferably from about 0.25 inches (0.6 cm) to 1 inches (2.54 cm) in length
so as to create a flow rate that allows for delivery of the full volume of inflation agent within 30
seconds, but in a manner/stream/flow that does not physically damage the inner container,
thereby causing premature C02 generation and inflation. The activation agent is preferably
pure water, or a solution containing up to 50 % concentration of anhydrous citric acid at 200C,
or the equivalent thereof at varying solution temperatures based on solubility of anhydrous
citric acid. Preferably, the system is configured to have an occupyable void space in the
central lumen of the balloon when in compacted form in the outer container of from about 0.3
ml to about 4.5 ml, such that a corresponding volume of activation agent can be injected into
the void space.
[0110]      In one embodiment, prior to folding, the free-floating inner container with inflation
agent for C02 generation is preferably vertically aligned with the self-sealing valve system such
that the septum/inoculation spacer is placed directly above the tip of the capsule. The balloon
contains an inner container. A self-sealing valve system is adhesively adhered to the interior
of the wall of the balloon, and the inverted configuration of the balloon is provided by inversion
through a hole sealed with a patch. The top approximate 1%of the balloon wall is folded over
the inner capsule, and the pleats where the capsule is are creased similar to the pleats formed
in the second step of making a paper airplane, then folded over to the left or to the right. The
bottom approximate % of the sphere is then accordioned using no more than 2 creases and
folded over the capsule. The left half is then folded over the right half of the capsule or vice
versa so that the wings touch. Then the material is rolled over until it creates a tight roll. The
device is then placed inside the outer container.
[0111]      In a self-inflating configuration, the balloon is folded so as to form a pocket around
the inner capsule, to insure that the liquid injected through the self-sealing valve system is

                                                  -21
contained in an area less than 10% of the entire balloon surface area. It is not necessary to
provide a pocket in the inflatable configuration, as no inner capsule is provided. The balloon is
folded such that the number of total folds is minimized so as to minimize possible damage to
the outer material or compromise of barrier properties. The number of total folds is preferably
less than 10 folds. The balloon material is rolled when at all possible such that the number of
creases required to fit the balloon in an outer container is minimized. This is done in effort to
also to prevent lumen material damage. The self-sealing valve is also preferably constructed
off-center of the balloon so as to minimize the number of folds that layer on top of each other.
[0112]     In the self-inflating configuration, the material forming the wall of the balloon is
processed and folded to maximize reaction efficiency by localizing the initiation agent injected
into the balloon so that it is maintained proximal to the reactants within the inner container.
The balloon is folded such that once the reaction initiates and the outer container separates,
the balloon unfolds in a manner that creates the largest possible surface area, which prohibits
the balloon from readily passing through the pyloric sphincter. The ratio of reactants in the
inflation agent and activation agent are selected such that the pH of any remnant liquid inside
the lumen of the balloon is acidic, with a pH of less than 6, such that any balloon leakage or
breach that allows stomach acid to enter does not cause additional C02 generation and
resulting unintentional re-inflation.
[0113]     In a self-inflating configuration, an inflation agent is compressed, formed or otherwise
held in a shape which provides good surface area availability for the reactants for C02
generation, while minimizing the space and/or volume sufficient to hold the inner container.
Preferably, the inner container has a length (longest dimension) of from about 0.748 inches
(1.9 cm) to 1.06 inches (2.7 cm) and a diameter or width of from about 0.239 inches (0.6 cm)
to about 0.376 inches (1 cm). The volume of the inner container is preferably from about 0.41
ml to about 1.37 ml. The inner container is preferably in the form of a standard push-fit gelatin
capsule but a gelatin tape may be used in lieu of a push-fit capsule. The container is
preferably relied upon for containing the inflation agent; however, additional sealing or other
encapsulation can be employed to control timing of inflation. Gelatin is particularly preferred
for use as the inner container; however other materials can also be suitable for use, e.g.,
cellulose. In order to minimize the internal volume of the system, it is generally preferred to
include only a single inner container; however, in certain embodiments two or more internal
containers can advantageously be employed. Timing of self-inflation is selected based on a
normal esophageal transit time and a normal time of gastric emptying of large food particles,
such that the balloon does not inflate to a size that can block the esophageal passageway or

                                                 - 22
prematurely pass through the pyloric sphincter. Timing is also controlled by compacting the
balloon such that the activation agent is substantially localized in the balloon next to the inner
capsule, creating an efficient C02 self-inflation method. Balloon inflation is initiated by the
liquid activation agent causing degradation of the inner container, such that the inflation agent
in the inner container contacts the liquid activation agent, thereby initiating the gas generation
reaction.
Inflation assembly
[0114]       In certain preferred embodiments, the volume-occupying subcomponent is filled with
a fluid using tubing which is subsequently detached and pulled away from the volume
occupying subcomponent. One end of the volume-occupying subcomponent has a port
connected to tubing of sufficient length that when unwound can span the entire length of the
esophagus, from mouth to stomach. This tubing is connected to the volume-occupying
subcomponent with a self-sealable valve or septum that can tear away from the volume
occupying subcomponent and self-seal once the volume-occupying subcomponent is inflated.
A physician or other health care professional secures one end of the tubing as the patient
swallows the device. Once the device is residing within the stomach, the physician uses the
tube to transmit a fluid, such as air, nitrogen, other gas(es), saline solution, pure water, or the
like, into the volume-occupying subcomponent and thereby inflate it. After the volume
occupying subcomponent is fully inflated, the tubing is released and can be pulled out from
inside the patient.
[0115]      The tube may be released in a number of manners. For example, the tubing may be
detached by applying a gentle force, or tug, on the tubing. Alternatively, the tubing may be
detached by actuating a remote release, such as a magnetic or electronic release.
Additionally, the tubing may be released from the volume-occupying subcomponent by an
automatic ejection mechanism. Such an ejection mechanism may be actuated by the internal
pressure of the inflated volume-occupying subcomponent. For example, the ejection
mechanism may be sensitive to a specific pressure beyond which it will open so as to release
any excess pressure and simultaneously release the tube. This embodiment provides a
desirable feature through combining release of the tubing with a safety valve that serves to
avert accidental over inflation of the volume-occupying subcomponent in the patient's stomach.
[0116]      This automatic release embodiment also provides the benefit that the device inflation
step may be more closely monitored and controlled. Current technology allows for a self
inflating intragastric volume-occupying subcomponent which generally begins to inflate in a

                                                   - 23
four minute timeframe after injection with an activation agent such as citric acid. In this
approach, the volume-occupying subcomponent may, in some instances, begin to inflate prior
to residing within the stomach (e.g., in the esophagus), or, in patients with gastric dumping
syndrome or rapid gastric emptying, the volume-occupying subcomponent may end up in the
small intestine prior to the time that inflation occurs. Accordingly, in certain embodiments it
can be desirable to inflate the volume-occupying subcomponent on command, once it is
ascertained that the volume-occupying subcomponent is residing in the correct location.
[0117]      In certain embodiments, it may also be advantageous for the volume-occupying
subcomponent to inflate gradually or in several steps over time. For example, if gas escapes
the volume-occupying subcomponent prior to the desired deflation time, it can be beneficial for
the device to re-inflate in order to preserve it in its expanded state.
Outer container
[0118]     The balloon is preferably provided in a deflated and folded state in a capsule or other
retaining, containing or coating structure ("outer container"). The outer container is preferably
in the form of a standard push-fit gelatin capsule, with the push-fit relied upon for containing
the deflated/folded balloon; however, a gelatin wrap can advantageously be employed in
certain embodiments. Gelatin is particularly preferred for use as the outer container; however
other materials can also be suitable for use, e.g., cellulose, collagen, and the like. Preferably,
the outer container has a length (longest dimension) of from about 0.95 inches (2.4 cm) to 2.5
inches (6.3 cm) and a diameter or width of from about 0.35 inches (0.9 cm) to about 0.9 inches
(2.4 cm). The volume of the inner container for the self-inflatable version is preferably from
about 1.2 ml to about 8.25 ml. In the self-inflating configuration, the outer container is
preferably configured with one or more holes, slits, passageways or other egresses, preferably
on each end, which can act as vents such that any gas created due to inflation agent exposure
to condensation or other ambient moisture present during processing does not cause
premature separation or degradation of the inner container prior to 30 seconds after
inoculation of the liquid activation agent, which may have an undesirable effect on reaction
efficiency. Such egresses can also expedite dissolution of the outer container to prepare the
balloon for inflation in the inflatable configuration. The process of the outer capsule degrading
(e.g., separates, dissolves, or otherwise opens) is expedited by pressure build up caused by
inflation (self-inflation or inflation via catheter) of the balloon. The outer capsule can be dipped
in water for a brief time to soften the materials but not release the balloon prior to swallowing to
minimize the time lapse between swallowing and balloon inflation. In the inflatable
configuration, the outer container is provided with a hole to house the inflation tube needle

                                                  - 24
assembly, wherein the diameter of the catheter needle housing is mechanically compatible
with the diameter of the outer container hole such that the needle can be inserted into the self
sealing valve while maintaining therein the housed balloon to facilitate pushing or swallowing
of the balloon assembly. In a preferred embodiment, the outer container is a capsule. The
distal half of the capsule may be flared to prevent abrasion of the balloon materials by the
leading edge of the capsule as the compacted balloon is inserted into the capsule. The
capsule can also comprise two parts held together with a gel band and encompassing the
folded balloon that allows for quicker separation of the capsule so that inflation can take place
more expeditiously. The outer capsule degrades (e.g., separates, dissolves, or otherwise
opens) due to contact with ingested fluid ingestion (e.g., water intake) and preferably degrades
within 5 minutes or less, more preferably within 2 minutes or less, so as not to cause
discomfort to the patient while the balloon/catheter tube is in place.
[0119]      In a preferred embodiment, the device is fitted into a standard sized gelatin capsule.
The capsule may be formed of a material that has a known rate of degradation such that the
device will not be released from the capsule or otherwise deployed prior to entry into the
stomach. For example, the capsule materials may include one or more polysaccharide and/or
one or more polyhydric alcohols.
[0120]     Alternatively, the device, in its delivery state, may be coated in a substance that
confines the device in its delivery state while also facilitating swallowing. The coating may be
applied by a dipping, sputtering, vapor deposition, or spraying process which may be
conducted at an ambient or positive pressure. The balloon may also be encapsulated by
wrapping gelatin tape around the balloon and then placing the wrapped balloon in a capsule, if
so desired.
[0121]      In certain preferred embodiments, the encapsulated or coated device is lubricated or
otherwise treated so as to facilitate swallowing. For example, the encapsulated or coated
device may be wetted, heated, or cooled, prior to swallowing by the patient. Alternatively, the
encapsulated or coated device may be dipped in a viscous substance that will serve to
lubricate the device's passage through the esophagus. Examples of possible coatings can be
any substances with lubricious and/or hydrophilic properties and include glycerine,
polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), petroleum jelly, aloe vera, silicon-based materials (e.g. Dow 360)
and tetrafluoroethylene (TFE). The coating may also be applied by a sputtering, vapor
deposition or spraying process.

                                                 - 25
[0122]      In additional embodiments the coating or capsule is impregnated or treated with one
or more local anesthetics or analgesics to ease swallowing. Such anesthetics may include
anesthetics in the amino amide group, such as articaine, lidocaine and trimecaine, and
anesthetics in the amino ester group, such as benzocaine, procaine and tetracaine. Such
analgesics may include chloraseptic.
[0123]      In certain embodiments, the capsule may be weighted at a certain end in order for it
to be oriented appropriately when it is administered, as it travels down the esophagus, and/or
when it is in the stomach. The weighting components may include polymer materials or
inflation reactants.
[0124]      The swallowable, self-inflating intragastric balloon is provided with mechanisms to
reliably control timing of self-inflation such that premature inflation while in the esophagus
during swallowing is avoided and sufficient inflation once in the stomach so as to prevent
passage through the pyloric sphincter is ensured. Normal esophageal transit time for large
food particles has been documented as 4-8 seconds, and gastric emptying of large food
particles through the pylorus does not occur for at least 15-20 minutes.        The outer container
is preferably configured to separate, dissolve, degrade, erode, and/or otherwise allow the
deflated/folded balloon to begin unfolding not less than 60 seconds but not more than 15
minutes after inoculation with liquid activation agent. The inner container is preferably
configured chemically, mechanically or a combination thereof to retard the initial C02
generating chemical reaction such that sufficient C02 to begin inflating the balloon is not
available earlier than 30 seconds after inoculation with the liquid activation agent, but to permit
generation of sufficient C02 such that at least 10% of the occupyable volume of the balloon is
filled within 30 minutes, at least 60% of the occupyable volume of the balloon is filled within 12
hours, and at least 90% of the occupyable volume of the balloon is filled within 24 hours. This
timing allows for injection of the activation agent into the outer container by the medical
professional, passing the device to the patient, and swallowing by normal peristaltic means by
the patient. This timing also prohibits potential passing of an uninflated balloon into the
duodenum by the balloon being inflated to a sufficient size such that gastric emptying of the
balloon cannot be easy, as objects more than 7 mm in diameter do not readily pass.
Delivery components
[0125]      It certain embodiments, it may be advantageous for an administrator of the device to
use a delivery tool for delivering the device to the mouth or facilitating its passage through the
esophagus in the optimal orientation. A delivery tool may enable the device administrator to

                                                 - 26
inject the device with one or more inflation agents as the device 10 is being administered to the
patient. In a preferred embodiment, such injection may be accomplished in the same
mechanical action(s) of the administrator that are employed to release the device from the
delivery tool into the mouth or esophagus. For example, the delivery tool may include a
plunger, a reservoir having a liquid, and an injection needle. The administrator pushes the
plunger which, either in sequence or approximately simultaneously, forces the injection needle
into the device and thereby injects the liquid contained in reservoir into the device.
Subsequent application of force to the plunger pushes the device out of the delivery tool and
into the desired location within the patient. Furthermore, the delivery tool may also include a
subcomponent that administers an anesthetic or lubricant into the patient's mouth or
esophagus to ease the swallowability of the device.
Balloon
[0126]      The volume-occupying subcomponent ("balloon") of the preferred embodiments is
generally formed of a flexible material forming a wall which defines an exterior surface and an
interior cavity. Various of the above-described subcomponents may be either incorporated into
the wall or interior cavity of the volume-occupying subcomponent. As shown, volume
occupying subcomponent can vary in size and shape according to the patient's internal
dimensions and the desired outcome. The volume-occupying subcomponent may be
engineered to be semi-compliant, allowing the volume-occupying subcomponent to stretch or
expand with increases in pressure and/or temperature. Alternatively, in some embodiments, a
compliant wall offering little resistance to increases in volume may be desirable.
[0127]      Spherical or ellipsoidal volume-occupying subcomponents are preferred in certain
embodiments. Alternatively, the volume-occupying subcomponent may be constructed to be
donut-shaped, with a hole in the middle of it, and may be weighted and shaped in such a way
that it orients in the stomach to cover all or part of the pyloric sphincter, similar to a check
valve. The hole in the middle of the volume-occupying subcomponent can then serve as the
primary passage for the contents of the stomach to enter the small intestine, limiting the
passage of food out of the stomach and inducing satiety by reducing gastric emptying.
Volume-occupying subcomponent may be manufactured with different-sized donut-holes
according to the degree that gastric emptying is desired to be reduced. Delivery, inflation and
deflation of the volume-occupying subcomponent may be accomplished by any of the methods
described above.

                                                - 27
[0128]      It is advantageous in certain embodiments for the volume-occupying subcomponent
wall to be both high in strength and thin, so as to minimize the compacted volume of the device
as it travels the esophagus of the patient. In certain embodiments, the volume-occupying
subcomponent wall materials are manufactured with a biaxial orientation that imparts a high
modulus value to the volume-occupying subcomponent.
[0129]      In one embodiment, the volume-occupying subcomponent is constructed of a
polymeric substance such as polyurethane, polyethylene terephthalate, polyethylene
naphthalate, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), Nylon 6, Nylon 12, or polyether block amide (PEBA).
The volume-occupying subcomponent may be coated with one or more layers of substances
that modify (increase, reduce, or change over time) gas-barrier characteristics, such as a
thermoplastic substance.
[0130]      Preferably, the gas-barrier materials have a low permeability to carbon dioxide or
other fluids that may be used to inflate the volume-occupying subcomponent. The barrier
layers should have good adherence to the base material. Preferred barrier coating materials
include biocompatible poly(hydroxyamino ethers), polyethylene naphthalate, polyvinylidene
chloride (PVDC), saran, ethylene vinyl alcohol copolymers, polyvinyl acetate, silicon oxide
(SiOx), acrylonitrile copolymers or copolymers of terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid with
ethylene glycol and at least one diol. Alternative gas-barrier materials may include polyamine
polyepoxides. These materials are commonly acquired as a solvent or aqueous based
thermosetting composition and are generally spray-coated onto a preform and then heat-cured
to form the finished barrier coating. Alternative gas-barrier materials which may be applied as
coatings to the volume-occupying subcomponent include metals such as silver or aluminum.
Other materials that may be used to improve the gas impermeability of the volume-occupying
subcomponent include, but are not limited to, gold or any noble metal, PET coated with saran,
conformal coatings and the like, as listed, for example, in Tables 1a-b.
[0131]      In certain preferred embodiments, the volume-occupying subcomponent is injection,
blow or rotational molded. Either immediately following such molding, or after a period of
curing, the gas-barrier coating may be applied if not already applied within the composite wall.
[0132]      In another embodiment, the intragastric volume-occupying subcomponent is formed
using a Mylar polyester film coating silver, aluminum or kelvalite as a metallicized surface, to
improve the gas impermeability of the volume-occupying subcomponent.

                                                - 28
[0133]     In the event that the volume-occupying subcomponent's wall is composed of multiple
layers of materials, it may be necessary to use certain substances or methods to connect,
attach or hold together such multiple layers. Such substances can include a solvent or an
ether-based adhesive. Such multiple layers may also be heat-bonded together. Once such
layers are attached together to form (for example) a sheet of material to be made into a
volume-occupying subcomponent, it may also be necessary to apply additional treatment steps
to such material to allow it to seal together (for example, by application of a certain degree of
heat and pressure) in order to be made into a volume-occupying subcomponent. Accordingly,
it may be advantageous to include as an additional layer in the volume-occupying
subcomponent certain materials that seal. For example, a volume-occupying subcomponent
comprised of a combination of PET and SiOx layers, which impart favorable mechanical and
gas impermeability characteristics to the volume-occupying subcomponent, may be sealed by
including a layer of sealable polyethylene in such volume-occupying subcomponent.
[0134]     According to another embodiment of the preferred embodiments, the functionality of
the volume-occupying subcomponent and the deflation component is combined either in part
or in whole. For example, the volume-occupying subcomponent may be formed of a
substance that is degraded within the stomach over a desired period of time. Once the
degradation process has formed a breach in the wall of the volume-occupying subcomponent,
the volume-occupying subcomponent deflates, continues to degrade and passes through the
remainder of the digestive tract.
[0135]     Preferably, an automated process is employed that takes a fully constructed volume
occupying subcomponent, evacuates all of the air within the interior cavity and folds or
compresses the volume-occupying subcomponent into the desired delivery state. For
example, the evacuation of air from the volume-occupying subcomponent may be actuated by
vacuum or mechanical pressure (e.g. rolling the volume-occupying subcomponent). In certain
embodiments, it is desirable to minimize the number of creases produced in the volume
occupying subcomponent when in the delivery state.
[0136]     In another embodiment, deflation of the volume-occupying subcomponent may be
achieved through one or more injection sites within the wall of the volume-occupying
subcomponent. For example, two self-sealing injection sites can be incorporated at opposite
sides of the volume-occupying subcomponent. The volume-occupying subcomponent may be
positioned within a fixture that employs two small-gauge needles to evacuate the air from the
volume-occupying subcomponent.

                                                 - 29
[0137]      In one embodiment, the self-sealing injection sites may further be used to insert
chemical elements of the inflation subcomponent into the interior of the volume-occupying
subcomponent. After injection of the chemical elements into the volume-occupying
subcomponent, the same needles may be used to perform evacuation of the volume
occupying subcomponent.
[0138]      It may be desirable that the volume-occupying subcomponent is packed into the
delivery state under, for example, a negative vacuum pressure or under a positive external
pressure.
[0139]      The volume-occupying subcomponent wall materials may also be engineered to,
once they are initially punctured or torn, tear relatively easily from the point of such puncture or
tear. Such properties can, for example, be advantageous if deflation of the volume-occupying
subcomponent were initiated by a tearing or puncturing of the volume-occupying
subcomponent wall, since such initial tear or puncture may then increase in scope, hastening
and/or maximizing the deflation process.
[0140]      The volume-occupying subcomponent may also be coated by a lubricious substance
that facilitates its passage out of the body following its deflation. Examples of possible
coatings can be any substances with lubricious and/or hydrophilic properties and include
glycerine, polyvinylpyrrolidone (PVP), petroleum jelly, aloe vera, silicon-based materials (e.g.
Dow 360) and tetrafluoroethylene (TFE). The coating may be applied by a dipping, sputtering,
vapor deposition or spraying process which may be conducted at an ambient or positive
pressure.
[0141]      The balloon composite wall materials can be of similar construction and composition
as those described in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2010-0100116-Al, the contents of which is
hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The materials are able to contain a fluid,
preferably in compressed or non-compressed gas form, such as, e.g., N2, Ar, 02, C02, or
mixture(s) thereof, or atmospheric air (composed of a mixture of N2 , 02, Ar, C02, Ne, CH 4, He,
Kr, H2 , and Xe) that simulate gastric space concentrations. In certain embodiments, the
balloon is able to hold the fluid (gas) and maintain an acceptable volume for up to 6 months,
preferably for at least 1 to 3 months after inflation. Particularly preferred fill gases include non
polar, large molecule gases that can be compressed for delivery.

                                                  - 30
[0142]     Prior to placement in the outer container, the balloon is deflated and folded. In the
inverted configuration in a deflated state, the balloon is flat, with the inverted seam extending
around the perimeter of the balloon. The self-sealing valve system is affixed to the inner wall
of the lumen close to the center of the deflated balloon, with the inner container positioned
adjacent to the self-sealing valve system. The walls of the balloon are then folded. As part of
the balloon design, the self-sealing valve system is manufactured in a manner such that it can
be and is preferably placed "off center" to minimize the number of folds upon themselves (e.g.,
doubling or tripling up) required to fit the balloon in the outer container. For example, the self
sealing valve system can advantageously be placed % r          1/4 r from the center of the balloon,
wherein r is the radius of the balloon along a line extending from the center of the balloon
through the septum.
Tracking and visualization subcomponent
[0143]     It may also be beneficial to implement tracking and visualization functionality into
devices according to the present inventions. Due to the non-invasive nature of the present
device, physicians may desire to determine, or confirm, the location and orientation of the
device prior to inflation or during the course of treatment.
[0144]     A radiographic marker may be applied to the volume-occupying subcomponent when
the volume-occupying subcomponent is in a creased or folded state such that when the
volume-occupying subcomponent is in its deflated state the marker appears concentrated
when viewed on visualization equipment, and when the volume-occupying subcomponent is
inflated the marker appears less concentrated when viewed on visualization equipment.
Alternatively, a marker may be applied or incorporated into the volume-occupying
subcomponent at multiple positions so as to facilitate identification and location of the various
subcomponents of the device, such as a valve, head, or weight. The marker may be printed or
painted onto a surface of the volume-occupying subcomponent or between layers of the
material forming the volume-occupying subcomponent. Alternatively, a metal coating as
described below may be used as a marker to identify and/or locate the volume-occupying
subcomponent. Metal coatings for visualizing the volume-occupying subcomponent may
include silver, gold, tantalum or any noble metal. Alternatively, the marker may be applied to
an elastomeric sleeve that covers all or part of the volume-occupying subcomponent.
[0145]     In another embodiment, the volume-occupying subcomponent incorporates a
subcomponent that changes mechanically upon inflation of the volume-occupying
subcomponent, which mechanical change can be visualized using x-ray or other visualization

                                               - 31
equipment. For example, a mechanical portion of the volume-occupying subcomponent
containing a visualization marker may elongate upon an increase in pressure in the volume
occupying subcomponent.
[0146]     Alternatively, a marker may be formed using a metallized mesh located between
layers of the material from which the volume-occupying subcomponent is constructed. The
pattern or patterns formed by the imbedded marker will appear when the volume-occupying
subcomponent is in an inflated, deployed state.
[0147]     It is envisioned that marker materials may be incorporated into the volume-occupying
subcomponent to facilitate various visualization techniques such as, for example, MRI, CT and
ultrasound.
[0148]     The volume-occupying subcomponent may also contain a dye or marker that is
released upon deflation to indicate that the volume-occupying subcomponent cavity has been
breached. Such dye or marker may, for example, be apparent in the patient's urine as an
indication that the volume-occupying subcomponent has begun to deflate.
[0149]     In yet further embodiments, microchips and other components employing electronic
modalities may be used to locate and identify a device. Microchips analogous to those utilized
for the identification of pets may be used to communicate device specific information and its
approximate location. For example, a Wheatstone or other bridge circuit may be incorporated
into the device and, together with RF "ping and listen" technology may be used as part of a
system to determine the device's approximate location and measure and communicate device
specific information. Such device specific information can include internal volume-occupying
subcomponent pressure, which can indicate the degree of inflation of the volume-occupying
subcomponent.
[0150]     In yet further embodiments, mechanical, chemical, visual and other sensors may be
included as part of the device to measure, record and/or transmit information relating to the
device and/or the patient's internal environment. For example, the device may contain a
camera or any of the other imaging and transmission components of a Pillcam device. As an
additional example, the device may contain sensors that measure, record and/or transmit
information relating to stomach pH, stomach pressure, hormone levels, organ health, and
organ safety.

                                                  - 32
Valve System
[0151]      In preferred embodiments, a self-sealing valve system is attached to the balloon
(e.g., on its inside surface) that is "universal" or compatible with the swallowable catheter and a
physician-assisted catheter. The valve system serves to allow for balloon inflation using a
miniature catheter that includes a needle assembly and also provides a mechanism for
detachment of the catheter after inflation has been completed.
[0152]      FIGS. 1A-D depict views representing a design of a self-sealing valve system which
contains a self-sealing septum housed within a metallic concentric cylinder. In the inflatable
configuration, the self-sealing valve system is preferably adhered to the underside of the
balloon material such that only a portion of the valve protrudes slightly outside of the balloon
surface to ensure a smooth surface. The valve system for the inflatable configuration can
utilize the same self-sealing septum designed for the self-inflating configuration. The septum
preferably consists of a material possessing a durometer of 20 Shore A to 60 Shore D. The
septum is inserted or otherwise fabricated into the smaller cylinder of the concentric metallic
retaining structure (FIGS. 2A-D) that is preferably cylindrical in shape. The smaller cylinder
within the larger cylinder controls alignment of the catheter needle sleeve/needle assembly
with the septum, provides a hard barrier so that the catheter needle does not pierce the
balloon material (needle stop mechanism), and provides compression such that the
valve/septum re-seals after inflation and subsequent needle withdrawal.
[0153]      The concentric valve system can also provide radio opacity during implantation and
is preferably titanium, gold, stainless steel, MP35N (nonmagnetic, nickel-cobalt-chromium
molybdenum alloy) or the like. Non-metallic polymeric materials can also be used, e.g., an
acrylic, epoxy, polycarbonate, nylon, polyethylene, PEEK, ABS, or PVC or any thermoplastic
elastomer or thermoplastic polyurethane that is fabricated to be visible under x-ray (e.g.,
embedded with barium).
[0154]      The septum can be cone shaped, so that the compressive forces are maximized for
self-sealing after inflation. The self-sealing septum allows air to be evacuated from the balloon
for processing/compacting and insertion into the outer container, and allows for piercing by an
inflation agent syringe needle (self-inflating configuration) or inflation catheter needle (inflatable
configuration), and then subsequent withdrawal of the inflation agent syringe needle or
detachment of the inflation catheter and withdrawal of the catheter needle significantly limiting
gas leakage outside of the balloon during the inflation process and needle withdrawal/catheter
detachment.      The septum is inserted into the valve using a mechanical fit mechanism to

                                                  - 33
provide compression. An additional ring (FIGS. 3A-C) can be placed at the distal end of the
inner cylinder to provide additional compression to ensure the septum material is pre-loaded
so as to re-seal itself. The ring is preferably metallic in nature, but can also be a non-metallic
polymeric material such as an acrylic, epoxy, or thermoplastic elastomer or thermoplastic
polyurethane. The ring material is preferably the same material as the cylinder, titanium, but
can also be gold, stainless steel, MP35N or the like.
[0155]      In an inflatable configuration, a larger, outer cylinder (FIGS. 4A-D) of the concentric
valve housing contains a slightly harder durometer material than the inner cylinder (50 Shore A
or greater), but is also preferably silicone. The purpose of using a harder durometer material
is to ensure sealing when connected to the needle sleeve for inflation. The silicone located in
the outer ring of the concentric valve is adhered to the balloon from the inside surface. The
entire outer cylinder is filled and a small circular lip of this same material is provided that is
slightly larger than the diameter of the inner cylinder and extends to the outside surface of the
balloon. The lip is compatible with the bell shaped needle sleeve and provides sealing to
enhance connection of the valve to the catheter to withstand the inflation pressures applied
and also increases the ejection distance or attachment force of the catheter. This silicone lip
preferably does not protrude past the balloon surface more than 2 mm to ensure that the
balloon surface remains relatively smooth and does not cause abrasion or ulcerations of the
mucosa. It is designed to provide compressive forces against the needle sleeve of the
catheter for inflation and detachment whereby when connected to the needle sleeve of the
inflation catheter, the connection coupling can preferably withstand a pressure of 35 PSI during
inflation. The seal is then broken during detachment using hydraulic pressure that is
preferably more than 40 PSI but less than 200 PSI to separate the coupling. An additional
retaining ring (FIGS. 5A-C) preferably made of the same material as concentric valve, can be
included in the valve system to further enhance the seal between the metal and the valve
silicone and provide additional mechanical support to ensure proper mechanical fit and are
intended to disrupt slippage of the silicone material from the hard (metallic) valve system
(causing an increase in tensile force).
[0156]      The valve structure for the inflatable configuration uses a mechanical fit mechanism
to provide the functions of the self-sealable valve for inflation by the catheter and subsequent
catheter detachment; however, primer and/or adhesive may be used to provide additional
support in construction of the assembly. The configuration can be modified by modifying the
surfaces of the metal components, making them more sticky or slippery e.g. more or less
conducive to adhesion, to provide the desired mechanical/interference fit. The interference fit

                                                   - 34
between the valve and the catheter can be modified to change the pressure requirements for
inflation and/or detachment. Additional assemblies can include overmolding the metallic
portions or the concentric system in silicone such that additional support rings to ensure the
mechanical fit and the tensile strength and forces required to sustain the assembly during
catheter inflation and detachment can be omitted.
[0157]      The total valve diameter in the inflatable configuration is designed to fit a miniature
catheter system that does not exceed 8 French (2.7 mm, 0.105 inches) in diameter. The total
diameter does not exceed 1 inch (2.54 cm) and is preferably less than 0.5 inches (1.27 cm), to
facilitate swallowing. Additional valves can be added, if desired; however, it is generally
preferred to employ a single valve so as to maintain the volume of the deflated/folded balloon
(and thus the outer container dimensions) as small as possible. The valve system is
preferably attached to the balloon and bonded such that a shear force greater than 9 lbs (40 N)
is required to dislodge the valve system.
[0158]      In a self-inflating configuration, the valve system can be attached to the balloon (e.g.,
on its inside surface) without the use of an opening, orifice, or other conduit in the wall of the
balloon. The valve system can utilize a septum with a durometer of 20 Shore A to 60 Shore D.
The valve can be inserted or otherwise fabricated into a retaining structure that has a higher
durometer, e.g., 40 Shore D to 70 Shore D or more. The retaining structure can be fabricated
from a silicone, rubber, soft plastic or any suitable non-metallic polymeric material such as an
acrylic, an epoxy, a thermoplastic elastomer, or thermoplastic polyurethane. Preferably, a
structure, such as a ring, that can be metallic or non-metallic but radio opaque (e.g., barium)
and visible under X-ray, can be embedded in the retaining structure. Using a mechanical fit
mechanism of two structures of different durometers, one softer (septum) with a large
diameter, can be inserted into a snug, a higher durometer structure creates compressive
forces in the once open orifice to enable C02 retention and reduce susceptibility for C02 gas
leaks. The metallic ring for radio-opacity also helps to support compressive forces on the
septum. The self-sealing septum allows air to be evacuated from the balloon for
processing/compacting and inserting in the outer container, and also allows for the inflation
agent to be injected into the outer container for inflation initiation. Additional septums can be
provided, if desired; however, it is generally preferred to employ a single septum so as to
minimize the volume of the deflated/folded balloon (and thus the outer capsule) to as small as
possible. The valve system is preferably attached to the inside of the balloon such that a
shear force greater than 9 lbs (40 N) is required to dislodge the valve system. A silicone head

                                                 - 35
and radio opaque ring of a self-sealing valve system can be employed, as can a wedge
shaped septum.
[0159]     In the self-inflating configuration, an inoculation spacer is preferably incorporated to
guide a needle into the self-sealing valve for injection of liquid activation agent into the lumen
of the balloon and to prevent the needle from penetrating the wall of the deflated/folded balloon
elsewhere such that pressure within the lumen of the balloon cannot be maintained. The
inoculation spacer also facilitates preventing liquid activation agent from penetrating the inner
container or the folded balloon material, thereby focusing the activation agent in an appropriate
manner to properly mix the reactants for C02 generation according to the criteria described
above. The inoculation spacer is generally in the form of a tube or cylinder. The inoculation
spacer is preferably attached to the inner container and/or the self-sealing valve system with
an adhesive or other fixing means; however, in certain embodiments the inoculation spacer
can be "free-floating" and maintained in position by the folding or rolling of the walls of the
balloon. The inoculation spacer can comprise any suitable material that can be passed after
separation, erosion, degradation, digestion, and/or dissolution of the outer container; however,
preferable materials include non-metallic materials with a minimum Shore D durometer of 40 or
more, any metallic material, or a combination thereof. A cupped needle stop (inoculation
spacer) can be employed in preferred embodiments.

                                                 - 36
Balloon
[0160]       In a preferred embodiment, a self-inflating balloon is fully sealed 360 degrees
around. In the self-inflating configuration, with injection of an inflation agent by needle syringe,
there are preferably no external openings or orifices to the central lumen. In the inflatable
configuration, a valve structure (either protruding, recessed, or flush with the surface of the
balloon) is provided for providing an inflation fluid to the central lumen. The balloon can have a
"noninverted", "inverted", or "overlapped" configuration. In a "noninverted" configuration, the
seams or welds and seam allowance, if any, are on the outside of the inflated balloon. In an
"overlapped" configuration, layers are overlapped, optionally with one or more folds, and
secured to each other via welds, a seam, adhesive, or the like, resulting in a smooth external
surface. In an "inverted" configuration, the balloon has a smooth external surface with seams,
welds, adhesive bead, or the like inside the inflated balloon. In order to create a balloon with
an inverted configuration, e.g., a balloon with no external seam allowance (no wall material
between the edge of the balloon and the weld, seam, or other feature joining the sides
together), two balloon halves are joined together in some fashion (e.g., adhered using
adhesive or heat or the like based on the balloon material used). One of the balloon halves
encompasses an opening to allow for the balloon to be pulled through itself after adherence of
the two halves and to have the seams of the balloon on the inside. The opening created is
preferably circular but can be any similar shape, and the diameter of the opening preferably
does not exceed 3.8 cm; however, in certain embodiments a larger diameter may be
acceptable. A patch of material is adhered (adhesively, heat welded, or the like, based on the
material used) to cover the original balloon-half opening. The inversion hole thus created that
is subsequently patched is small enough that the forces exerted during inflation do not
compromise the material used to maintain fluid in the balloon. The preferred shape for the
inflated balloon in final assembly is ellipsoid, preferably spheroid or oblate spheroid, with
nominal radii of from 1 inch (2.5 cm) to 3 inches (7.6 cm), a nominal height of from 0.25 inches
(0.6 cm) to 3 inches (7.6 cm), a volume of from 90 cm3 to 350 cm3 (at 370C and at internal
nominal pressure and/or full inflation), an internal nominal pressure (at 370C) of 0 psi (0 Pa) to
15 psi (103421 Pa), and a weight of less than 15 g. The self-inflating balloon is configured for
self-inflation with C02 and is configured to retain more than 75% of the original nominal volume
for at least 25 days, preferably for at least 90 days when residing in the stomach. The
inflatable balloon is configured for inflation with an appropriate mixture of gases so as to
deliver a preselected volume profile over a preselected time period (including one or more of
volume increase periods, volume decrease periods, or steady state volume periods).

                                                   - 37
[0161]     The preferred shape for the inflated balloon in final assembly is ellipsoid, preferably
spheroid or oblate spheroid, with nominal radii of from 1 inch (2.5 cm) to 3 inches (7.6 cm), a
nominal height of from 0.25 inches (0.6 cm) to 3 inches (7.6 cm), a volume of from 90 cm3 to
350 cm3 (at 370C and at internal nominal pressure and/or full inflation), an internal nominal
pressure (at 370C) of 0 psi (0 Pa) to 15 psi (103421 Pa), and a weight of less than 15 g. In
certain embodiments wherein a stable volume over the useful life of the device is preferred, the
balloon is configured to maintain a volume of at least 90% to 110% of its original nominal
volume. In other embodiments, it can be desirable for the balloon to increase and/or decrease
in volume over its useful life (e.g., in a linear fashion, in a stepwise fashion, or in another non
linear fashion).
Inner container
[0162]     The inner container for the self-inflating balloon is contained within the lumen of the
balloon and contains the C02 generator for balloon self-inflation. The C02 generator
comprises an inflation agent mixture housed within the container. Preferably, from about 10 %
to about 80 % of the total inflation agent used comprises powdered citric acid, with the
remainder comprising powdered sodium bicarbonate. Sufficient inflation agent is provided
such that upon completion of the C02 generating reaction, the balloon achieves inflation at the
nominal inflation pressure described above. Preferably, a total of from about 0.28 to 4 grams
inflation agent mixture is employed, depending upon the balloon size to be inflated; preferably
up to 1.15 grams of sodium bicarbonate is used with the remainder being powdered citric acid
to generate 300 cm3 of C02 at nominal pressure.
Inflation assembly
[0163]     An intragastric balloon system that is manually inflated by a miniature catheter can
be employed in certain embodiments. The system preferably remains "swallowable." The
balloon for delivery is in a compacted state and is attached to a flexible, miniature catheter,
preferably no larger than 4 French (1.35 mm) in diameter. The catheter is designed such that
a portion of the catheter can be bundled or wrapped upon itself for delivery with the
encapsulated balloon, allowing the patient to swallow both catheter and balloon for delivery to
the stomach. The balloon can contain a self-sealable valve system for attachment of the
catheter and inflation of the balloon once it reaches the stomach cavity. The proximal end of
the catheter can be left just outside of the patient's mouth, permitting connection to an inflation
fluid container that can house the preferred inflation fluid (gas or liquid). After inflation the
catheter can be detached from the balloon valve and pulled back through the mouth. This

                                                - 38
method allows for the intragastric balloon to maintain its swallowability but allow for inflation by
a fluid source or a mixture of fluid sources via the catheter. Alternatively, a more rigid,
pushable system can be employed wherein the balloon valve is compatible with either the
swallowable, flexible catheter or the pushable, rigid catheter assembly.
[0164]     The inflation catheters (swallowable or administrator-assisted pushable) described
herein are configured to deliver the balloon device orally and without any additional tools. The
administration procedure does not require conscious sedation or other similar sedation
procedures or require endoscopy tools for delivery. However, other versions of the device can
be used in conjunction with endoscopy tools for visualization or can be adapted such that the
balloon device can be delivered nasogastrically as well.
[0165]     In operation, the proximal end of the inflation catheter is connected to a valve or
connector that allows for connection to the inflation source or the disconnect source, this is
preferably a connector or inflation valve (FIG. 6 and FIG. 7, respectively). The connector
materials may consist of polycarbonate or the like and can connect to a single or multi-lumen
catheter tube. The distal end of the inflation catheter is connected to the universal balloon
valve of the balloon that has been compacted and housed within a gelatin capsule or
compacted using gelatin bands (FIG. 8A-B).        The catheter tube is preferably from 1 French
(0.33 mm) to 6 French (2 mm) in diameter. The catheter is preferably long enough to extend
out past the mouth (connected to the inflation connector or valve) and transverse the
esophagus down to at least the middle of the stomach - approximately 50-60 cm.
Measurement ticks can be added to the tubing or catheter to aid in identifying where the end of
the tube is located. Timing for inflation can be initiated by having the tube contain a pH sensor
that determines a location difference between the esophagus (pH 5-7) and the stomach (pH 1
4) based on the different pH between the two anatomical sources, or can be derived or verified
from the expected pressure in a contained (i.e., esophagus) versus a less-constrained space
(i.e., stomach). The tube can also contain nitinol that has a tunable transmission to the body
temperature, taking into account the timing for swallowing.     The tube can also be connected to
a series of encapsulated or compacted balloons on a single catheter. Each can be inflated
and released separately. The number of balloons released can be tune-able to the patient's
needs and desired weight loss.
[0166]     In certain embodiments, a catheter with the balloon at the distal end (inflated with air)
is employed to temporarily and firmly hold the balloon in place. A small deflated balloon
catheter can be positioned through the head of the gastric balloon (e.g., a "balloon within the

                                                - 39
balloon"), and then inflated with air during delivery to firmly hold the capsule and balloon in
place and prevent spontaneous detachment of balloon from the catheter. This balloon catheter
can incorporate a dual channel that can also allow the bigger gastric balloon to be inflated (by
gas or liquid). Once the gastric balloon has been satisfactorily inflated, the small air balloon
catheter can be deflated and pulled out of the valve (allowing the valve to self-seal), and out of
the body, leaving the inflated gastric balloon in the stomach.
[0167]     In other embodiments, the catheter may be coated to enhance swallowability or is
impregnated or treated with a flavored version and/or one or more local anesthetics or
analgesics to ease swallowing. Such anesthetics may include anesthetics in the amino amide
group, such as articaine, lidocaine and trimecaine, and anesthetics in the amino ester group,
such as benzocaine, procaine and tetracaine. Such analgesics may include chloraseptic.
Dual Lumen Catheter
[0168]     In a preferred embodiment, a swallowable dual lumen catheter is provided. The dual
lumen catheter (FIGS. 9A-C) has two lumens with a diameter of the complete assembly no
larger than 5 French (1.67 mm), preferably no larger than 4 French (1.35 mm). The inner
lumen preferably does not exceed 3 French (1 mm) and functions as the inflation tube, and the
outer lumen preferably does not exceed 5 French (1.67 mm) and functions as the
disconnection tube. The catheter assembly is connected to a needle assembly, described in
more detail below, at the distal end and to a dual port inflation connector at the proximal end.
The tubing that the catheter assembly employs is flexible for swallowability, is kink resistant,
can withstand body temperature, is resistant to acid, and is biocompatible as the tube
transverses the alimentary canal into the stomach cavity. The tube materials are preferably
soft and flexible and have moderate tensile strength and a significant amount of hoop strength
to handle applied pressures. The lumens are preferably round and co-axial and free-floating
so as to provide flexibility. The dual lumen assembly also preferably requires no adhesive or
glue. Alternative lumen configurations can include two D-lumens or a combination of a D
lumen and round lumen, and can be used in stiffer configurations of the final catheter
assembly. Preferred materials for the tubing include a thermo-resistant polyethylene tubing
such as PEBAX@ or a thermo resistant polyurethane tubing such as PELLETHANET M , PEEK
or Nylon. The tubing can also be manufactured out of bioresorbable materials such as
polylactic acid (PLA), poly-L-aspartic acid (PLAA), polylactic/glycolic acid (PLG),
polycaprolactone (PCL), DL-lactide-co--caprolactone (DL-PLCL) or the like, wherein the tube
can be released after inflation and detachment and swallowed as normal.

                                                  - 40
[0169]     At the distal end of the catheter assembly, the inner lumen or inflation tube is
attached to the needle assembly that is used to puncture the balloon's self-sealing valve,
preferably located at one of the apexes of the balloon housed inside of a gelatin capsule as
outer container. The outer lumen is connected to the needle sleeve and provides connection
force between the catheter assembly and balloon providing the tensile strength to withstand
starting inflation pressures of preferably up to 10 psi and preferably no more than 35 PSI while
maintaining the assembly together. The needle sleeve is configured to mechanically couple
with the balloon valve assembly. The needle is preferably made of metal, preferably stainless
steel or the like, with a maximum size of 25 gauge (0.455 mm), preferably no smaller than 30
gauge (0.255 mm) for inflation timing purposes. The needle sleeve is preferably a soft material
such as nylon or the like, or can also be polycarbonate, polyethylene, PEEK, ABS or PVC.
The needle sleeve covers the length of the needle in its entirety, such that the body is
protected from the needle and the needle can only pierce the balloon septum. Preferably the
needle sleeve is flush or extends out slightly more than the needle length. The needle is
inserted into the balloon septum prior to swallowing and maintains a retention force of
approximately 0.5 lb when coupled to the silicone area of the balloon valve. The needle sleeve
is preferably slightly bell shaped (FIGS. 10A-D) or contains a circular relief or lip so that when
inserted into the silicone area of the valve a lock and key mechanism is created to increase the
tensile strength of the assembly and enhance the sealing for inflation.
[0170]     At the proximal end, the catheter assembly is connected to a Y-adapter assembly
preferably made of polycarbonate. The y-adapter is "keyed" so that the inflation gas and
connection fluid are connected to the catheter assembly appropriately and travel down the
correct lumen.
[0171]     Prior to inflation, priming of the disconnection lumen may be employed using a liquid.
For example, the outer lumen is first flushed with 2 cm3 of water, saline, DI water or the like
prior to balloon inflation. Thereafter, the inflation source container is attached to the connector
leading to the inner lumen. The inflation source container works on the premise of the ideal
gas law and a pressure decay model. For a given compressed gas formulation, the device is
designed to equalize such that a higher starting pressure is used to inflate the balloon than is
the resulting end pressure of the balloon. The starting pressure and volume are dependent
upon the gas formulation selected, as well as the length of the catheter and the starting
temperature (typically ambient temperature) and ending temperature (typically body
temperature).

                                                 -41
[0172]     After inflation, the balloon is detached from the catheter assembly using hydraulic
pressure. A syringe filled with water, DI water, or preferably saline is attached to the female
end of the Y-assembly. The syringe contains 2 cm3 of liquid and when the syringe plunger is
pushed in, enough hydraulic pressure is exerted such that the needle is ejected from the
balloon valve.
Single Lumen Catheter
[0173]     To further reduce the diameter of the inflation catheter, thereby increasing
swallowability comfort of the balloon capsule and catheter, a single lumen catheter (FIG. 11A
C) can be employed that does not exceed 3 French (1.0 mm) in diameter (0.033 inches).
[0174]     The needle/needle sleeve assembly is similar in design to that of the dual lumen
catheter described herein. However, with the single lumen system, the distal end of the
catheter lumen connects to the needle sleeve only and there is no second catheter inside.
Instead, a single thread attached to a needle hub runs co-axially the length of the catheter to
aid in tensile strength for detachment and overall flexibility.
[0175]     The needle sleeve is slightly bell shaped or contains a circular relief or lip so that
when inserted into the silicone head of the valve a lock and key mechanism is created to
increase the tensile strength of the assembly, enhance the sealing for inflation, and since this
is a single lumen assembly, the lip increases the force required to remove the needle from the
valve so this does not occur haphazardly during the inflation process.
[0176]     The proximal end of the catheter is connected to an inflation valve (FIG. 7),
preferably a 3-way valve, or any valve that allows for using a method of exclusion for inflation
and detachment of the balloon. The distal end of the catheter contains the needle sleeve,
which is made of nylon or other similar source. The needle is metallic and preferably stainless
steel.
[0177]     The tubing that the catheter assembly employs is flexible for swallowability, is kink
resistant, can withstand body temperature, is resistant to acid, and is biocompatible as the
tube transverses the alimentary canal into the stomach cavity. The tube materials are
preferably soft and flexible and resistant to necking or buckling or kinking. For a single lumen
system, the catheter tubing is preferably made of PEBAX or PELLETHANE (an ether
based polyurethane elastomer), but can also comprise bioresorbable materials such as PLA,
PLAA, PLG, PCL, DL-PLCL or the like, wherein the tube can be released after inflation and

                                                - 42
detachment and swallowed as normal. The threadlike wire (FIG. 11 B) inside the catheter
tubing attached to the needle is preferably a nylon monofilament, but Kevlar or nitinol wire or
other suitable materials can also be used.
[0178]     To inflate the balloon, the distal end of the catheter is attached to the balloon capsule
where the needle protrudes through the self-sealable valve (FIG. 11C). The container is
swallowed and a portion of the inflation catheter remains outside of the mouth. The inflation
source container is connected to the proximal end of the inflation valve, where the port for
inflation gas is chosen by excluding the other ports. The inflation fluid (preferably compressed
nitrogen gas or a mixture of gases) travels down the single catheter lumen, whereby the
inflation gas selects the path of least resistance, or more specifically through the needle cavity
and into the balloon. The balloon is preferably inflated in less than 3 minutes.
[0179]     To detach and withdraw the needle from the balloon valve, 2 cm3 or other suitable
volume of water or other liquid is injected into the catheter at a high pressure. Since water has
a high surface tension and viscosity, it occludes the needle pathway and the pressure is
transferred to the outside needle sleeve, thereby breaking the fit between the needle sleeve
and the balloon valve.
[0180]     If it is desired to place a substance inside the balloon, such as water or acid or any
alternative liquid, it can be done by using a lower pressure to inject the liquid.
Miniature Stiff-bodied Inflation Catheter
[0181]     In certain embodiments, a stiff-bodied inflation catheter can be employed, which can
be placed orally or trans-nasally. This system can be from 1 French (0.33 mm) to 10 French
(3.3 mm), preferably 8 French (2.7 mm) in diameter. A larger diameter is typically preferred to
enhance pushability, with wall thickness also contributing to pushability and kink resistance.
The length of the tube can be approximately 50-60 cm. As discussed above, measurement
ticks can be added to the tubing to identify where the end of the tube is located, or a pH or
pressure sensor on the catheter can be employed to detect location of the balloon.
[0182]     This system for inflation/detachment is similar to the dual lumen system described
above, but with a larger needle sleeve to accommodate the larger diameter tube (FIGS. 12A
D). Materials that can be used in the lumen include, e.g., expanded polytetrafluoroethylene
(EPTFE) for the outer lumen and polyetheretherketone (PEEK) for the inner lumen. To also
enhance pushability, a strain relief device can be added to the distal and proximal ends. It is

                                                  - 43
particularly preferred to have strain relief at the distal end, e.g., 1 to 8 inches, preferably 6
inches, to ensure the catheter bypasses the larynx and follows into the esophagus. The
proximal end can have strain relief as well, e.g., to ensure fit of the connector. The preferred
material for the strain relief is a polyolefin. The method for inflation/detachment is the same
method as for the dual lumen configuration where the outer lumen connects to the needle
sleeve and the inner lumen connects to the needle. Stiffening members are strategically
placed along the length of the catheter shaft to provide the correct amount of flexibility and
pushability to properly place the device in the patient. As part of the procedure, the patient
can swallow water or other suitable liquid so as to distend esophageal tissue for smooth
passage down of the device. Patients can also be administered an anesthetic at the back of
the throat to numb the area and lessen the gag reflex.
[0183]     The tube can also be connected to a series of encapsulated or compacted balloons
on a single catheter such that a total volume of up to 1000 cm3 or more can be administered,
as necessary. Each can be inflated and released separately. The number of balloons
released can be tunable to the patient's needs and desired weight loss.
[0184]     In addition, a catheter can be used for administering a gastric balloon that is similar
to balloon catheters used in angioplasty termed "over-the-wire" or rapid exchange catheters
(FIG. 13). In this case where the patients attempts to swallow the catheter but fails so the stiff
catheter - or physician assisted catheter can slide over the flexible catheter and the balloon
can be pushed down in the same manner as the physician-assisted catheter. Different
materials can be used to provide the varying degrees of flexibility or one material that is
fabricated with different diameters across the length to vary the degree of stiffness can be
used.

                                                 - 44
Inflation Fluid Container
[0185]      The inflation fluid container is employed to control the amount or volume of fluid
placed inside of the balloon. The inflation fluid container can be in the form of a canister made
of, e.g., a polymeric material such as polyvinylchloride (PVC), tin coated steel, stainless steel,
aluminum, aluminum alloy, brass, or other suitable material. The container can also be in
syringe form. The materials employed are able to contain a fluid, preferably in gas form, e.g.,
compressed or non-compressed N2 , Ar, 02, C02, or mixture(s) thereof, or compressed or non
compressed atmospheric air (a mixture of N2 , 02, Ar, C02, Ne, CH 4, He, Kr, H2 , and Xe). The
balloon composite wall materials and respective diffusion gradients and gas permeability
characteristics are used to select a fluid for inflation of the intragastric balloon. The inflation
fluid container materials are selected to ensure there is no diffusion or leakage of the fluid
before it is connected to the connector or valve of the inflation catheter. The inflation fluid
container system (FIGS. 14A-C) includes a connector (FIG. 14B) to the catheter and a
pressure gauge (FIG. 14C). The inflation fluid container can be fabricated from any suitable
material, e.g., stainless steel (FIG. 15). It can also contain a smart chip that notifies the
healthcare professional of whether inflation is successful or if the balloon should be detached
due to an error in the system.
[0186]      In some embodiments, for example, in FIGS. 16A and 16B, the inflation fluid
container is in the form of a canister or container (flexible or stiff-bodied), squeezable bag,
compliant balloon-like tube or the like.     As with other embodiments described above, the
canister or container has walls formed of stainless steel, pure aluminum, aluminum alloy,
brass, or other suitable barrier material. The walls surround and define an inner reservoir or
cavity. The canister may include an actuator which enables a delivery system to be activated
to provide the gas, a valve cup configured to retain valve components in an arrangement, a
spring, a stem connecting the actuator and the spring, a stem gasket that seals the opening
around the valve stem, a tube or straw which extends from the valve to the bottom of the can,
allowing the gas under pressure to flow out of the canister, and a housing which holds the
spring and connects the tube or straw to the valve assembly. An aperture is typically disposed
within one of the walls, providing an opening into the inner reservoir. The canister includes a
cap (FIG. 16A) configured to seal the aperture to prevent fluid from escaping the inner
reservoir during storage. When the cap is removed, a straw is visible (FIG. 16B). A portion of
the straw protrudes externally from the canister; the remainder of the straw extends through
the aperture and into the inner reservoir. The straw may be formed of polypropylene,
polyethylene, nylon, or other suitable polymeric material. The canister of some embodiments

                                                 - 45
is configured to release an inflation fluid from the inner reservoir via the straw when a low
pressure gradient fluid path is opened toward the balloon.
[0187]      In some embodiments, it is desirable to inflate the intragastric balloon using an
inflation fluid container having a known internal pressure or quantity of gas. For example, in
some embodiments, it is desirable to begin with an inflation fluid container configured to have a
volume of, e.g., 50 cm3 or less to 400 cm3 or more, or from 100 cm 3 to 200 cm3 or 300 cm3 , or
from 125 cm3 to 175 cm3 , or approximately 150 cm3 . In other embodiments, other volumes of
gas may be selected. In some embodiments, the inflation fluid container is filled at the site of
the procedure, for example, by connecting the inflation fluid container to a tank of compressed
gas prior to the procedure and filling the inflation fluid container until a desired volume or
pressure is reached. The pressure can be monitored using a pressure gauge. In other
embodiments, the inflation fluid container comes prefilled with the desired amount of fluid. In
such embodiments, a location's altitude (and resultant atmospheric pressure) should be taken
into account in order to provide an inflation fluid container having the desired volume of gas.
Inflation fluid containers may be designed with different sizes, colors, or other distinctive
marking indicating the altitude range for which each is tailored.
[0188]      To maintain "swallowability" of the balloon and to ensure comfort of the patient during
the procedure, it is preferred to minimize the amount of time the catheter is placed in the
mouth/esophagus. Timing of inflation can be selected so as to minimize time in place. The
outer container-catheter assembly, once swallowed, takes approximately 3 to 120 seconds to
reach the stomach. Once in the stomach, the inflation fluid container can be attached to a
valve or port of the catheter system. Inflation timing can be controlled by selecting the length
of catheter, diameter of the catheter tube, the starting temperature, and the starting pressure.
Using the Ideal Gas Law for nitrogen and Boyle's Law (P1V1        = P2V 2 ) the amount of starting
volume/pressure can be derived, where starting pressure takes into account the final target
pressure at body temperature. It is desired to have an inflation time after swallow of less than
5 minutes, and preferably 2-3 minutes, before balloon detachment and catheter withdrawal.
The inputs use to derive inflation of the balloon (preferably in less than 3 minutes) include
inflation container volume, type of inflation fluid (preferably a compressed gas or compressed
gas mixture), starting pressure, catheter length and diameter, and desired end volume and
pressure of the balloon. Thus, due to differences in diameter, a smaller 1 French or 2 French
diameter catheter system requires a lower starting pressure to achieve the same target balloon
volume and pressure in the same time frame as a larger 4 or 5 French diameter catheter,

                                                 - 46
assuming use of the same compressed gas formulation. In general, it is understood that
starting with a lower pressure with the same flow rate/volume can increase the inflation time.
[0189]     The inflation source container can provide feedback to the end user based on a
pressure decay system. Where there is an expected starting pressure and expected ending
pressure to indicate whether the balloon is inflated properly, there is no need for endoscopic
visualization (see FIG. 17). Each scenario of expected pressure outputs depicted in FIG. 17
can have its own tolerances around it to reduce possibilities of false positives, and the inflation
fluid container can provide feedback based on these tolerances as to the status of balloon
inflation and detachment. The inflation container contains additional low volume bolus of
pressure that is released to determine device location and then is followed by a second, larger
bolus intended to inflate the balloon. The gas release could be done in 1, 2, 3 or a plurality of
bolueses based on the events intended to be detected. This is derived based on the Ideal Gas
Law, where there is an expected end pressure based on the fixed volume of the balloon. If the
pressure remains high and doesn't decay as expected, this can indicate a failure in the system
(e.g., the balloon container did not dissolve, the balloon is expanding in the esophagus
because there is, e.g., a kink in the tube or other failure in the catheter system). For example,
for a successful decay using nitrogen only as the inflation fluid, the starting pressure is 22-30
PSI to inflate a balloon to 250 cm3 and 1-2.5 psi (0.120 kg/cm 2) for a nylon-based material. To
indicate successful balloon inflation, a math chip can be added to the inflation source container
that provides at least one of a visual, audible, or tactile notification, or otherwise transmits a
notification to a healthcare professional or administrator of whether inflation is successful or if
there is an error in the system based on the pressure curve and a set of predetermined
pressure tolerances and expected timing of inflation.
[0190]     Alternatively, the balloon can be filled based on a starting pressure by using a spring
mechanism, a balloon-within-balloon mechanism, or other pressure source. These
mechanisms can potentially result in more predictable/consistent pressure decay curves, and
again can have accompanying, predetermined tolerances for feedback back to the end user.
FIG. 18 depicts the expected decay curve for these methods of pressure sources, and again
would have accompanying, predetermined tolerances for feedback back to the end user.
Inflation Fluid Dispenser
[0191]      In some embodiments, a canister, such as the canister of FIGS. 16A and 16B, is
coupled to an inflation fluid dispenser in order to deliver an inflation fluid to the intragastric
balloon or other inflatable intragastric device. One such inflation fluid dispenser is shown in

                                                  - 47
FIGS. 19A and 19B. The inflation fluid dispenser includes a housing configured to couple to
the canister. Some embodiments have a securement latch, a receiving space fitted to receive
an canister, a threaded engagement feature, and/or other features configured to securely
couple the housing to the aerosol canister.
[0192]      The housing may also include a spring positioned to contact the straw of the aerosol
canister when the aerosol canister is in its secured position within the housing. In such
embodiments, as the canister is brought into the secured position, the spring applies a force
onto the straw in the direction of the canister, causing a preliminary quantity of inflation fluid to
be released from the canister. In some embodiments, the release of a preliminary quantity of
inflation fluid is designed to lower the inflation fluid within the aerosol canister to a desired
starting volume or pressure. In some embodiments, the material, size, and strength of the
spring are selected such that the amount of force exerted by the spring, and the resultant
preliminary quantity of inflation fluid released, are predetermined. The material, size, and
strength of the spring can be selected according to the elevation and average atmospheric
pressure of the location in which the inflation fluid dispenser will be used. In this manner, the
inflation fluid dispenser can be calibrated for use in particular regions or elevation ranges, and
a canister of a standard size and fill volume can be used regardless of location.
[0193]      The housing may also have an inner wall defining a channel, which extends at least
partially through the housing. In such embodiments, a proximal inlet of the channel is
positioned around the straw of the canister when the canister is securely coupled to the
housing. The spring, if present, may be disposed within the proximal inlet. A distal outlet of
the channel is positioned at a distal end of the inflation fluid dispenser and is configured as a
port to which a catheter or other flexible tubing can be connected. In various embodiments, a
valve is disposed in the channel between the proximal inlet and distal outlet and is configured
to transition between a closed position and an open position. In the closed position, the valve
blocks the flow of fluid between the proximal inlet and the distal outlet. In the open position,
the flow of fluid is not blocked. Accordingly, in the open position, an inflation fluid can flow
from an inner reservoir of the aerosol canister, through the straw of the canister and the
channel of the inflation fluid dispenser, and out the distal outlet to a catheter, intragastric
device, and/or other component coupled to the port.
[0194]      In some embodiments, the inflation fluid dispenser includes a lever disposed on an
outer surface of the housing and mechanically coupled to the valve. A medical professional
can move the lever between a first and a second position to transition the valve between the

                                                  - 48
open and closed positions. In other embodiments, the inflation fluid dispenser may include a
button, key, toggle, or switch disposed on an outer surface of the housing and electrically
coupled to the valve. When manipulated by a medical professional, the button, key, toggle, or
switch may send an electrical signal to the valve to open or close. In still other embodiments,
any suitable valve control mechanism configured for manipulation by a user may be present in
the inflation fluid dispenser.
[0195]      In some embodiments, a pressure gauge is coupled to the housing and configured to
detect the gauge pressure within the channel between the valve and the distal outlet. In some
such embodiments, the pressure gauge includes a digital display; in other embodiments, the
pressure gauge has a card and mechanical dial indicator.
[0196]      In some embodiments, the inflation fluid dispenser and canister (or other inflation
fluid container) form part of a larger inflation system used to deliver the inflation fluid to the
inflatable intragastric device. One example of an inflation system is provided in FIG. 20. In
some such embodiments, flexible tubing and a substantially encapsulated intragastric device
are coupled to the inflation fluid dispenser and inflation fluid container. The flexible tubing may
include a catheter, a synthetic rubber extension tube, or other bendable, elongated device
having an inner lumen. In some embodiments, the flexible tubing includes both an extension
tube and a catheter connected via spokes of a stopcock having a three-way valve. A syringe
may be connected to a third spoke of the three-way valve. Each of these components of the
system is described in detail above.
[0197]      In one method of delivering an inflatable intragastric device into a patient's stomach,
the inflation fluid dispenser is first coupled to the inflation fluid container. In some
embodiments, this coupling is performed with the dispenser's valve in an open position. The
inflation fluid dispenser may contain a barometric pressure compensation valve that accounts
for temperature, altitude, starting pressure; where based on the current altitude settings
adjusts for the final starting gas number of moles required to inflate a balloon to its target
pressure (constant, but can range from 1-5 psi). This compensation is done at coupling and
may cause a preliminary amount of inflation fluid to be vented from the distal outlet of the
channel when the inflation fluid container comes into contact with, and experiences a force
from, a spring positioned in the proximal inlet of the channel based on differences in the
environment of the manufacturing settings and the current environment the device is being
utilized in (e.g, altitude). In some embodiments having a pressure gauge, when the valve is
open, the pressure of the inflation fluid container can be monitored. In some embodiments, it

                                                  - 49
is desired for inflation fluid to be vented from the inflation fluid container until the pressure
within the container reaches 250kPa, 300kPa, or any value therebetween. In other
embodiments, the desired pressure within the inflation fluid container is between 257 and 297
kPa, inclusive of said values. Once the inflation fluid container is securely coupled to the
dispenser and the desired pressure has been reached, the valve may be closed.
[0198]      In some embodiments, the extension tube, stopcock, catheter, syringe, and the at
least partially encapsulated intragastric device are attached to each other, and a proximal end
of the extension tube is attached to the port on the distal end of the dispenser. With the three
way valve of the stopcock in a position which allows for fluid connection between the extension
tube and the catheter, fluid will flow between the channel of the dispenser (downstream from
the dispenser's valve), the extension tube, the catheter, and the encapsulated intragastric
device until an equilibrium is reached. The reading of the pressure gauge should be generally
reflective of the pressure within the intragastric device.
[0199]      In some methods of delivering the inflatable intragastric device into a patient's
stomach, the patient swallows the substantially encapsulated intragastric device in order to
deliver it to the stomach. In various embodiments, the catheter remains connected to the
intragastric device and extends from the stomach, through the esophagus, and at least into the
patient's mouth. In some embodiments, the swallowing and positioning of the intragastric
device is monitored using a radiographic imaging method, such as, for example, fluoroscopy.
[0200]      Once in the stomach, the capsule surrounding the intragastric device of various
embodiments begins to dissolve. In some embodiments, the capsule dissolves in less than ten
minutes. In some embodiments, the capsule dissolves within thirty seconds to four minutes.
In some embodiments, the detected pressure will drop to below 10 kPa when the capsule
dissolves. In some embodiments, the detected pressure will drop below 7kPa upon
dissolution. In various embodiments, the process of filling the inflatable intragastric device can
begin upon dissolution of the capsule. In order to fill the inflatable intragastric device with an
inflation fluid, the valve of the dispenser is transitioned to an open position. Inflation fluid will
flow substantially from the relatively high-pressured inner reservoir of the inflation fluid
container to the relatively low-pressured inner cavity of the inflatable intragastric device until an
equilibrium pressure is achieved in the system. In some embodiments, approximately 150 cm3
of a gas in unconstrained atmosphere that is constrained to 28 psi or approximately 450 cc at
atmospheric pressure. For example, N2 , will be transferred into the intragastric device. In
some embodiments, the intragastric device will achieve a final volume within the stomach of

                                                  - 50
approximately 250cc. In other embodiments, the intragastric device will achieve a final volume
within the stomach of 50 to 400cc, and preferably 90 to 300cc, or any individual value or range
therebetween. The intragastric device of some embodiments will achieve a final pressure of
5kPa, 20 kPa, or any value therebetween. In a preferred embodiment, the final pressure within
the intragastric device is between 8.3kPa and 17.2kPa, and more preferably, the final pressure
of the intragastric device is 13.8kPa. The intragastric device of some embodiments reaches a
desired final pressure in less than five minutes. In some embodiments, the final pressure is
reached in approximately two minutes.
[0201]       In some embodiments of the method, once the pressure of the system has stabilized
and reached an equilibrium, the catheter can be separated from the intragastric device and
removed from the patient. In some embodiments, the syringe is used to separate the catheter
from the intragastric device. The three-way valve is moved into a position in which the syringe
is in fluid connection with the catheter and intragastric device. The syringe's plunger is pushed
rapidly to expel a fluid from the syringe into the inner cavity of the balloon at a force sufficient
to dislodge the catheter from the intragastric device (as described in more detail above).
Composite Wall
[0202]      The materials selected for the composite wall of the balloon may be optimized to
maintain the original inflation gas without significant diffusion, or may also allow for diffusion of
the gases located in the gastric environment, e.g., C02, 02, argon, or N2 to diffuse through the
wall of the balloon to inflate, partially or wholly, once the balloon is placed in the stomach.    A
fluid (a liquid or gas) can also be added inside of the balloon using the inflation catheter(s)
described herein to change diffusion direction of the balloon composite wall and when it
reaches stasis based on the internal and external environment.
[0203]      A gastric balloon inflated by nitrogen, C02 gas, a single fluid (gas) or a mixture of
gasses employs a composite wall that provides barrier properties (fluid retention), properties
imparting resistance to pH and moisture conditions in the gastric environment or the
environment within the central lumen of the balloon, and structural properties to resist gastric
motility forces, abrasion of the balloon wall in vivo, and damage during manufacturing and
folding of the balloon. Certain materials employed in the balloon materials are able to
withstand a hostile gastric environment designed to break down foreign objects (e.g., food
particles). Some of the variables that the gastric environment encompasses are as follows:
gastric liquid pH of from 1.5-5; temperature of approx. 370C; a relative humidity of 90-100%;
ingress of gastric space gas content; and constant gastric motility external pressures of from 0-

                                                 - 51
4 psi at variable frequencies and cycle times based on the fed state of the stomach. The
external pressure imparted by gastric motility can also cause abrasions on the surface of the
balloon. The inside of the balloon lumen may contain moisture from a solution injected in the
balloon for timing of auto-deflation or any moisture that has transferred across the membrane
due to the external humid environment. In addition to these environmental stresses the wall
materials meet biocompatibility requirements and are constructed such that the total thickness
of the wall (barrier material) is thin enough to be compacted and placed inside of a
swallowable-sized container ("outer container") without significant damage or lodging. The
outer container is small enough to transcend the esophagus (which has a diameter of
approximately 2.5 cm). The wall or barrier material is also heat formable and sealable for
balloon construct and maintains a bond strength that can contain internal gas pressures of up
to 10 psi generated by the initial inflation pressure as well as pressure due to the ingress of
gas molecules from the stomach cavity until the system's gas environment reaches stasis.
The film properties that are evaluated to determine suitability for use in the composite wall of
the balloon include pH resistance, water vapor transmission rate, gas barrier properties,
mechanical strength/abrasion properties, temperature resistance, formability, flex-crack
(Gelbo) resistance, surface energy (wettability) compliance, and heat bond potential.
[0204]     The various layers in the composite wall can impart one or more desirable properties
to the balloon (e.g., fluid retention, resistance to moisture, resistance to acidic environment,
wettability for processing, and structural strength). A list of polymer resins and coatings that
can be combined into a multi-layer preformed system ("composite wall") is provided in Tables
1a-b. These films can be adhesively bonded together, co-extruded, or adhered via tie layers
or a combination thereof to obtain the desired combination of properties for the composite wall,
as discussed below. The materials identified as film coatings in Tables 1a-b are provided as
coatings applied to a base polymer film, e.g., PET, Nylon, or other structural layer.

                                             - 52
                                          Table 1a.
                                         Film Resins
                                                   Characteristics
                                 Good                  Good Fluid           Good
                    Structural/Behavior/Mechanical      Retention  Manufacturability/Surface
                         Strength/Compliance             Barrier      Energy Properties
                                                        Properties
FILM RESINS
Polyethylene                       X                        X
Terephthalate (PET)
Polytrimethylene
Terephthalate (PTT)
Liquid Crystal                     X                        X
Polymer (LCP)
Polytrimethylene                   X                        X
naphthalate (PTN)
Polyethylene                       X                        X
naphthalate (PEN)
Polyimide (PI)                    X                        X
Linear Low Density                                                           X
Polyethylene
(LLDPE)
Ethylene Vinyl                                             X
Alcohol (EVOH)
Polyamide: Nylon                                           X                 X
(PA) and Nylon-6
(PAG) /Nylon 12
High Density                                                                 X
Polyethylene
(HDPE)
Polypropylene (PP)                                                           X
Polyurethane                                                                 X
PVDC (Saran)                                               X                 X
Polyether Block                                                              X
Amide (Pebax)
Polyvinyl Alcohol                                          X
(PVOH)
Silicone                          X                                          X

                                                             - 53
                                                           Table 1b.
                                                       Film Coatings
                                                                  Characteristics
                                          Good                         Good Fluid               Good
                         Structural/Behavior/Mechanical                Retention      Manufacturability/Surface
                              Strength/Compliance                        Barrier           Energy Properties
                                 ___________________________           Properties _____________
FILM COATINGS                                                          P
Silicone Dioxide                                                           X
(Si02)
Aluminum Oxide                                                             X
(A1203)
Nanopolymers                                                               X
(Nano/Clay)
External Organic                                                           X
Coatings (e.g.,
epoxy amine)
Inorganic Coatings                                                         X
(e.g., Amorphous
Carbon)
Oxygen                                                                     X
Scavengers            I                                              I
Parylene C            II                                                   X
Fluid Retention Layers
[0205]       In preferred embodiments, a blended polymer resin using multiple layers is employed
to maintain the inflated balloon's shape and volume by retaining the inflation fluid for the
duration of the intended use. Certain barrier films, widely used in the food packaging and
plastic bottling industries, can advantageously be employed for this purpose in the composite
wall of the balloon. Preferably, the barrier materials have a low permeability to carbon dioxide
(or other gases, liquids, or fluids that are alternatively or additionally used to inflate the volume
occupying subcomponent). These barrier layers preferably have good adherence to the base
material. Preferred barrier coating materials and films include polyethylene terephthalate
(PET), linear low density polyethylene (LLDPE), ethylene vinyl alcohol (EVOH), polyamides
such as Nylon (PA) and Nylon-6 (PA-6), polyimide (PI), liquid crystal polymer (LCP), high
density polyethylene (HDPE), polypropylene (PP), biocompatible poly(hydroxyamino ethers),
polyethylene naphthalate, polyvinylidene chloride (PVDC), saran, ethylene vinyl alcohol
copolymers, polyvinyl acetate, silicon oxide (SiOx), silicon dioxide (SiO 2 ), aluminum oxide
(Al2O 3 ), polyvinyl alcohol (PVOH), nanopolymers (e.g., nanoclay), polyimide thermoset film,
EVALCA EVAL EF-XL, Hostaphan GN, Hostaphan RHBY, RHB MI, Techbarrier HX (SiOx
coated PET), Triad Silver (silver metallized PET), Oxyshield 2454, Bicor 84 AOH, acrylonitrile
copolymers, and copolymers of terephthalic acid and isophthalic acid with ethylene glycol and
at least one diol. Alternative gas-barrier materials include polyamine-polyepoxides. These

                                                 - 54
materials are typically provided as a solvent-based or aqueous-based thermosetting
composition and are typically spray-coated onto a preform and then heat-cured to form the
finished barrier coating. Alternative gas barrier materials that can be applied as coatings to the
volume-occupying subcomponent include metals such as silver or aluminum. Other materials
that may be used to improve the gas impermeability of the volume occupying subcomponent
include, but are not limited to, gold or any noble metal, PET coated with saran, and conformal
coatings.
[0206]       One method that is used in the packaging industry to delay diffusion of the inflation
fluid is to thicken the material. Thickening the material is generally not preferred, as the total
composite wall thickness preferably does not exceed 0.004 inches (0.010 cm) in order for the
balloon to be foldable into the desired delivery container size for swallowing by a patient.
[0207]      A multilayer polymer film that is able to withstand the gastric environment over the
course of the usable life of the balloon includes linear low density polyethylene (LLDPE)
adhesively bonded to a Nylon 12 film. Alternatively, an additional film layer with barrier
properties, such as PVDC can be added to the composite wall.
[0208]      The layers providing gas barrier properties are preferably situated as inner layers in
the composite wall as they are less mechanically robust than resins that are considered
"structural" such as Nylon and the like.
Structural Layers
[0209]       Layers such as polyurethane, Nylon, or polyethylene terephthalate (PET) can be
added to the composite wall for structural purposes, and are preferably placed as outermost
(proximal to the gastric environment or proximal to the central lumen of the balloon) layers,
provided that the pH resistance of such layers can withstand the acidic environment of the
stomach or the central lumen of the balloon.
Fabrication of the Composite Wall
[0210]      The various layers of the composite wall, including the gas barrier layers, need not
be situated in any particular order, but those of superior resistance to acidity, temperature,
mechanical abrasion, and superior biocompatibility profile are preferably employed as layers
contacting the gastric environment. Those with superior resistance to, e.g., acidity and
temperature, are preferably employed as layers contacting the central lumen of the balloon.

                                                - 55
[0211]     The various layers of the wall can include a single layer or up to 10 or more different
monolayers; however, a film thickness of from 0.001 inches (0.0254 cm) to 0.004 inches
(0.010 cm) thick is desirable such that the resulting balloon compacted to fit into a swallowable
capsule. The resulting composite wall preferably has good performance specifications with
respect to each category listed in Tables 1a-b.
[0212]     Films that are co-extruded are advantageously employed, as some adhesives may
contain leachables that are undesirable from a biocompatibility perspective. In addition,
coextrusion allows for better blending such that the materials maintain their original properties
when combined in this fashion and are less likely to be subject to delamination when exposed
to gastric motility forces.
[0213]     Combining films with similar properties, e.g., two film layers with excellent gas barrier
properties, in a composite wall is advantageous for use in a gastric balloon containing nitrogen,
oxygen, C02 or a mixture thereof as the inflation gas or where the external environment the
product is to be placed in, contains a mixture of gases including C02, e.g., the stomach. A
primary advantage of such composite films is that restrictions on film thickness can be
observed without sacrifice of gas barrier properties. Such a configuration also contributes to
reducing the effects of processing damage (e.g., manufacturing and compacting) and damage
due to exposure to in vivo conditions (e.g., gastric motility forces).
[0214]     In a particularly preferred embodiment, the composite wall includes a plurality of
layers. The first layer is an outer protective layer that is configured for exposure to the gastric
environment. This layer is resistant to mechanical forces, exposure to water (vapor), abrasion,
and high acidity levels. Nylon or more specifically, Nylon 12 is particularly preferred for the
layer exposed to the gastric environment, and is especially resistant to mechanical forces.
[0215]     In an alternative embodiment, polyurethane is RF welded to saran to yield a 6-7 mil
thick composite wall. In another embodiment, a five layer system is provided comprising a
layer of saran sandwiched between two polyurethane layers. Between the saran layer and
each of the polyurethane layers is a tie layer. The layers can be welded together, co-extruded
or adhered using an adhesive. This tri-layer is then co-extruded to Nylon on each side, and
then a final sealing layer (polyethylene or the like) is added to one of the nylon layers for the
total composite wall. A representative example of material combinations that are commercially
available or manufacturable is provided in Table 2. The orientation of the layers (innermost - in

                                                - 56
contact with the central balloon lumen, or outermost - in contact with the gastric environment)
is also indicated if more than two layers are described to support a suggested composite wall.
[0216]     Most of the film resins listed in Table 2 provide some degree of gas barrier
properties. Therefore, many can be used solely to form the balloon wall as a monolayer film;
however they can also be used in conjunction with other film resins to meet the desired gas
retention and mechanical specifications for the useful life of the balloon based on the inflation
gas and external environment the balloon is to be placed in. These film resins can also be
coated with gas barrier coatings listed in Tables la-b. Additional film layers can be added to
form the total composite wall. While such additional layers may not impart substantial barrier
properties, they can provide structural and/or mechanical properties, protection for the other
layers of the composite wall that are susceptible to water vapor, humidity, pH, or the like, or
other desirable properties. The film layers can be assembled using various adhesives, via co
extrusion, via lamination, and/or using tie layers and such to create a composite wall that
meets the requirements of an intragastric balloon suitable for use for at least 25 days, or up to
90 days or more, with the specified gas retention properties. Table 2 provides a list of layers
and layer combinations suitable for use in composite walls for an intragastric balloon. The
composite description, resin abbreviation, configuration (single layer, bilayer, trilayer, or the
like) and trade name of commercially available combinations are listed. The number of layers
indicated does not include any adhesive layers or tie layers used to fabricate the composite
wall, such that a 6-layer composite wall may, for example, have two or three adhesive layers
and/or tie layers that make up the total composite wall, and therefore the total number of layers
can be eight or nine in final form.    The term "layer" as used herein is a broad term, and is to
be given its ordinary and customary meaning to a person of ordinary skill in the art (and is not
to be limited to a special or customized meaning), and refers without limitation to a single
thickness of a homogenous substance (e.g., a coating such as SiOx, or a layer such as PET),
as well as to a supporting layer having a coating thereon (wherein a "coating" is, e.g., a
material typically employed in conjunction with substrate that provides structural support to the
coating layer). For example, a PET-SiOx "layer" is referred to herein, wherein a layer of Si-Ox
is provided on a supporting PET layer.

                                            - 57
                                           Table 2.
Example Film Composite                    Abbreviation              Trade name
Walls*
polyethylene terephthalate                     PET                      Mylar
metallized oriented polyethylene        metallized OPET                Custom
terephthalate
polyvinyl alcohol coated               PVOH coated OPP                  Bicor
oriented polypropylene
metallized biaxially oriented           metallized OPA6                Custom
nylon 6
Biaxally oriented Nylon/ethylene        OPA/EVOH/OPA             Honeywell Oxyshield
vinyl alcohol/biaxally oriented                                          Plus
Nylon
Nylon/ethylene vinyl                   Nylon/EVOH/LDPE                 Custom
alcohol/Low Density
Polyethylene
polyvinylidene chloride coated            PVDC/ OPET                    Mylar
oriented polyethylene
terephthalate
polyvinylidene chloride coated             PVCD/OPP                    Custom
oriented polypropylene
polyvinylidene chloride coated             PVCD/OPA6             Honeywell Oxyshield
biaxally oriented Nylon 6
high density                               HDPE/EVOH                   Custom
polyethylene/ethylene vinyl
alcohol
polypropylene/ethylene vinyl                PP/EVOH                    Custom
alcohol laminate
polyethylene                                PET/EVOH                   Custom
terephthalate/ethylene vinyl
alcohol
metallized oriented                      metallized OPP                Custom
polypropylene
sealable PVDC coated oriented           PVDC coated PP                 Custom
polypropylene
polyvinylidene fluoride                        PVDF                    Custom
Polyvinyl chloride                             PVC                     Custom
polyvinyl fluoride                             PVF                     Tedlar
polychlorofluoroethylene                      PCTFE             ACLAR UltRx, SupRx,
                                                                          Rx
amine-based epoxy coated               epoxy coated PA6               Bairocade
Nylon
polyvinyl chloride-polyvinylidene          PVC-PVDC                    Custom
chloride copolymer
medium density polyethylene                   MDPE                     Custom
Nylon/Polypropylene                    Nylon/PP laminate               Custom
Nylon-High Density                    Nylon-HDPE laminate              Custom
Polyethylene
Nylon 12/Ethyl Methyl                Co-extruded Nylon 12-       Custom Co-extruded
Acrylate/Polyvinylidene           encapsulated PVDC-Nylon 12-           blend
Chloride/ Ethyl Methyl Acrylate           LLDPE+LDPE
/Nylon 12/Linear Low Density
Polyethylene+Low Density
Polyethylene
Multi-layer Nylon 12/ Linear Low  Co-extruded multi-layer Nylon  Custom Co-Extruded
Density Polyethylene+Low                12-LLDPE+LDPE                   Blend
Density Polyethylene

                                         -  58
Example Film Composite                 Abbreviation        Trade name
Walls*
acetylene plasma coating on                 PET/A            Custom
polyester
difluoroethylene coating on                PET/DA            Custom
polyethylene terephthalate
oriented polypropylene                       OPP             Custom
cast propylene                               CPP             Custom
high density polyethylene                   HDPE             Custom
cyclic olefin copolymer                      COC             Custom
oriented polystyrene                         OPS             Custom
Fluorinated Ethylene Propylene               FEP             Custom
difluoroethylene coating on low            LDPE/D            Custom
density polyethylene
difluoroethylene coating on                  PP/D            Custom
polypropylene
acetylene plasma coating on                  PP/A            Custom
polypropylene
acetylene plasma coating on                LDPE/A            Custom
low density polyethylene
polybutylene terephthalate                 TPC-ET             Hytrel
polyether glycol copolymer
polyether block amide TPE                   PEBA              Pebax
oxide coated biaxally oriented        oxide coated PA  Honeywell Oxyshield
Nylon                                                          Ultra
Nanoclay/ nylon                       MXD6/Nanoclay    Imperm/ Aegis OXCE
Polyethylene                             PET/SiOx      BestPET/ TechBarrier
Terephthalate/Silicone Dioxide
Polyethylene                        PET+02 Scavengers       MonoxBar
Terephthalate/Oxygen
scavengers
Modified Polyethylene                  Modified PET       DiamondClear
Terephthalate
Polyethylene                             PET/MXD6             HP867
Terephthalate/Nylon 6
Amorphous polyvinyl alcohol          Amorphous PVOH     Nichigo G-Polymer
Nylon 6/ Ethyl vinyl               Nylon 6/ EVOH/LLDPE       Custom
alcohol/Linear Low Density
Polyethylene
Ethyl vinyl alcohol/ Poly-            EVOH/PP/EVOH           Custom
Propylene/ Ethyl vinyl alcohol
Ethyl vinyl alcohol/Nylon               EVOH/Nylon           Custom
Polyethylene/ Ethyl vinyl              PE/EVOH/PE            Custom
alcohol/Polyethylene
Polyethylene/ Ethyl vinyl              PE/EVOH/PET           Custom
alcohol/ Polyethylene
Terephthalate
Silicon dioxide-coated                       PET-            Custom
Polyethylene                     SiOx/LLDPE/EVOH/LLDPE
Terephthalate/Linear Low
Density Polyethylene/ Ethyl
vinyl alcohol/Linear Low Density
Polyethylene
Aluminum Oxide-coated                PET-A1203/LLDPE         Custom
Polyethylene
Terephthalate/Polyethylene
Polyethylene/ Ethyl vinyl            PE/EVOH/LLDPE           Custom

                                                -  59
   Example Film Composite                     Abbreviation              Trade name
   Walls*
   alcohol/Linear Low Density
   Polyethylene
   Polyethylene Terephthalate/             PET/PE/OEVOH/PE                Custom
   Polyethylene/ Polyethylene/ Bi
   axially oriented Ethyl vinyl
   alcohol
   Polyethylene Terephthalate/        PET/PE/EVOH/EVOH/EVOH/              Custom
   Polyethylene/Ethyl vinyl alcohol/                 PE
   Ethyl vinyl alcohol/ Ethyl vinyl
   alcohol/ Polyethylene
   Polyethylene Terephthalate/        PET/PE/Nylon 6/EVOH/Nylon           Custom
   Polyethylene/Nylon 6/Ethyl vinyl                 6/PE
   alcohol/ Nylon 6/ Polyethylene
   Silicone dioxide-coated              PET-SiOx/ PE/EVOH/PE              Custom
   Polyethylene Terephthalate/
   Polyethylene/ Ethyl vinyl
   alcohol/ Polyethylene
   Polyethylene/Ethyl vinyl                 PE/EVOH/PVDC                  Custom
   alcohol/polyvinylchloride
   Polyethylene Terephthalate/         PET/LLDPE/EVOH/LLDPE               Custom
   Linear Low Density
   Polyethylene/Ethyl vinyl alcohol/
   Linear Low Density
   Polyethylene
   Kurrarister C-coated                     PET-Kurrarister-C             Custom
   Polyethylene Terephthalate                 /PE/EVOH/PE
   /Polyethylene/ Ethyl vinyl
   alcohol/Polyethylene
   Polyethylene Terephthalate/        PET/PE/Nylon 6/EVOH/Nylon           Custom
   Polyethylene/Nylon 6/Ethyl vinyl                 6/PE
   alcohol/Nylon 6/Polyethylene
   Nylon 6/Ethyl vinyl alcohol/        Nylon 6/EVOH/ PVDC/Nylon           Custom
   Polyvinylchloride/Low Density                  6/LDPE
   Polyethylene
   Polyimide                                         P1                   Custom
   Polyimide/Li near Low Density                PI/LLDPE                  Custom
   Polyethylene
   Polyimide/Polyvinylchloride                    PI/PVdC                 Custom
   Polyimide/Polyvinylchloride/              PI/PVdC/LLDPE                Custom
   Linear Low Density
   Polyethylene
[0217]     In particularly preferred embodiments, the composite wall has a thickness of 0.005
inches or less (5.0 mil or less); however, in certain embodiments a thicker composite wall may
be acceptable. Generally it is preferred that the composite wall have a thickness of no more
than 0.004 inches (4.0 mil).

                                                 - 60
Fabrication of the Balloon
[0218]      To ensure good mechanical strength of the balloon, the balloon is preferably formed
and sealed such that the edges of the pieces used to form the balloon are overlapping. This
can be accomplished by any suitable method. For example, two flat sheets of material can be
placed in a frame with magnetized edges to hold the two sheets in place. Slack can be added
to the piece of film to orient the material such that it maintains its properties after the forming
process. The frame can be placed over a mold that represents a hemisphere the balloon. The
material, with slack put in it prior to pressure being applied, re-orients the material such that it
is more evenly distributed around the hemisphere shape. The material is preferably thickest in
the middle and is made thinner on the sides where it will be welded to a second piece to create
a sphere or ellipsoid having a substantially uniform wall thickness. For example, starting with a
0.0295" film, the middle of the film or subsequent apex has an ending film thickness of 0.0045"
and the edges have an ending thickness of 0.0265" for subsequent overlapping during the
welding process.
[0219]      The valve can be adhered to the (e.g., polyethylene, PE) side of one of the
hemispheres and protrude out of the opposite (e.g., nylon) side. One hemisphere typically
consists of Nylon as the outermost layer and the second hemisphere typically has polyethylene
(sealing web) as the outermost layer. The edges of the two hemispheres are preferably
aligned such that they overlap by at least 1 mm and no more than 5 mm. Alignment and
overlay of the two hemispheres is done to compensate for the thinning at the edges during the
thermoforming process, which in turn inhibits seam bursts in vivo. Each half of the spheroid is
placed on a fixture and the excess from the forming process is trimmed. On a multi-layer film,
the sealing layer, a PE or similar layer is bonded to the sealing layer of the second film half.
To do this the film of the hemisphere that has the nylon exposed to the external environment is
folded up along the edges of the sphere on one half (see FIGS. 21A-B) such that it can be
bonded to the hemisphere with the polyethylene on the outermost layer.
[0220]      The two film pieces are then sealed using a roller bonder or a band heater. In the
roller bonder, a pneumatic cylinder provides the compression, the heater provides the sealing
heat, and a motor that moves the bonder around the area controls the time that is required to
ensure proper sealing. In the band heater, there is a heating element, an expandable plug that
provides the compression, and a timer. The band is a metal, preferably copper and a spool
like fixture provides the compression needed. Using film layers of different melt temperatures
helps ensure integrity of the barrier layers of the final balloon configuration. If two similar
materials are welded, then an insulator can be employed.        In a preferred embodiment, one

                                                - 61
sphere is provided with the Nylon layer facing out and the second sphere has a PE layer facing
out.
Balloons with Resistance to Spontaneous Deflation
[0221]     The largest percentage of intragastric balloon malfunctions is due to spontaneous
deflations. Spontaneous deflations can occur due to (1) external puncture of the intragastric
balloon due to gastric motility forces, (2) over inflation of the balloon due to increased internal
pressure of the balloon from uptake of the gastric environment of the gasses and water vapor
and (3) under inflation of the balloon that leads to fatiguing of the excess material and
subsequent puncture of the balloon. By managing these two variables and tuning these
variables to withstand the dynamic gastric environment, the balloon system can be tailored to
ensure it remains inflated throughout its useful life. Instances of spontaneous deflation in this
intragastric balloon can be minimized by selection of the starting inflation gas in conjunction
with selection of the composite wall materials and construction. Selection of the permeability
characteristics with respect to water vapor transmission and gas permeability of the composite
wall so as to take advantage of the properties of the gastric space contents can enable the rate
of diffusion of gases into and out of the balloon to be controlled. This method allows for a
tunable method for prevention of under inflation and over inflation.
[0222]     Another phenomenon seen with gastric balloons and obesity in general is stomach
accommodation. In the process of stomach accommodation, the stomach grows to
accommodate the space occupying device or excess food that is ingested.            In the process of
stomach accommodation, the volume of a stomach containing an intragastric balloon grows
over time, such that the patient becomes hungrier. However, by controlling gas diffusion and
water vapor transmission across the balloon wall over time, the balloon size can also be
increased over time by selecting the starting inflation gas(es) and water and other in vivo gas
permeability characteristics of the film so as to maintain weight loss. In addition to
spontaneous deflations, selecting the permeability characteristics of the composite wall in
conjunction with the starting gases and utilizing the transfer of gases and water inside of the
balloon from the gastric environment, the balloon can be designed to grow over its useful life in
response to stomach accommodation.
[0223]     Experiments were performed wherein various starting inflation gases were selected
in conjunction with varying external gas environments that mimic the stomach gas and water
environment in vivo. The stomach environment consists of water, acid (hydrochloric acid), a
mixture of gases, and chyme (the semifluid mass of partly digested food expelled by the

                                                   - 62
stomach into the duodenum). Stomach gas usually arises from swallowing air during eating.
The composition of air is nitrogen (N2) 78.084%; oxygen        (02) 20.9476%; argon (Ar) 0.934%;
carbon dioxide (C02) 0.0314%; neon (Ne) 0.001818%; methane (CH 4) 0.0002%; helium (He)
0.000524%; krypton (Kr) 0.000114%; hydrogen (H2 ) 0.00005%; and xenon (Xe) 0.0000087%.
[0224]      Five gases constitute greater than 99% of the gases in gastrointestinal system: N2 ,
02, C02,    H2 and methane, with nitrogen predominating. Gastric pC02 closely parallels local
(splanchnic) arterial and draining venous blood pC02 values. Neutralization of stomach acid
can also generate gas. For example, when the stomach acid reacts with bicarbonates (e.g., as
are present in certain antacids) in the digestive juices, the chemical process creates C02,
which is normally absorbed into the blood stream. Digestion of food in the intestines, mainly
through fermentation by colonic bacteria, generates C02, H2, and methane. Microbes appear
to be the sole source of all of the hydrogen and methane produced in the intestine. These arise
from fermentation and digestion of nutrients (polysaccharides from fruits and vegetables are
not digested in the small intestines). Small quantities of a few other gases, including hydrogen
sulfide, indoles, and ammonia can also be generated.
[0225]      Controlled self-inflation of the intragastric balloon in the in vivo environment can be
achieved by using a semi-permeable or permeable composite wall in the balloon and initially
filling the balloon with a preselected single gas, such as N2 or 02. The balloon utilizes
differences in concentrations of gases and water concentration differences between the
internal balloon environment and the external environment in vivo (GI/stomach) to increase
and/or decrease the volume and/or pressure over time. To achieve a controlled decrease in
volume and/or pressure, a wall can be employed that has a relatively higher permeability to the
single gas used to inflate the balloon than to other gases present in the in vivo gastrointestinal
environment. For example, if nitrogen gas is employed as the inflation gas, over time in the in
vivo environment, the volume and/or pressure in the balloon will decrease as nitrogen diffuses
out into the in vivo environment through the oxygen permeable wall. Similarly, if oxygen gas is
employed as the inflation gas, over time in the in vivo environment, the volume and/or pressure
in the balloon will decrease as oxygen diffuses out into the in vivo environment through the
oxygen permeable wall. The differential in partial pressure of the single gas in the balloon
(higher) versus the in vivo environment (lower) will drive the process until equilibrium or
homeostasis is reached. To achieve a controlled increase in volume and/or pressure, a wall
can be employed that has a relatively lower permeability to the single gas used to inflate the
balloon than to other gases present in the in vivo gastrointestinal environment. For example, if
nitrogen gas is employed as the inflation gas, over time in the in vivo environment, the volume

                                                    - 63
and/or pressure in the balloon will increase as C02, etc. diffuses into the balloon through the
C02    permeable wall.     The differential in partial pressure of the permeable gas in the balloon
(lower) versus the in vivo environment (higher) will drive the process until equilibrium is
reached.
[0226]       In addition, maintaining and/or controlling inflation of the balloon can also be done
using the differences in concentrations between the internal balloon environment and external
gastric environment in which the balloon volume/pressure can be increased or decreased as
needed to extend the useful life of the product. One reason to decrease the pressure can be to
first inflate the balloon with a large, but highly diffusible/soluble gas molecule such as C02 in
addition to a more inert gas like nitrogen to pre-stretch the balloon, with the soluble gas
diffusing out of the balloon and other gases not originally present in the balloon migrating in to
fill the balloon.
[0227]       Inflation gases can be selected to start with the majority of the gas in the balloon
comprising a large, inert gas or a gas that has low diffusivity through the selected composite
wall. An inert gas in conjunction with a less inert gas(es) that are more soluble in the gastric
environment, can be combined to comprise the starting balloon inflation gas composition.
Patient diet and medications can also affect/control balloon inflation status - primarily by C02
concentration effects produced in the gastric environment. In addition, gastric pH also affects
C02    concentration. This particular method can also allow for a greater degree of tuning of the
device's useful life based on the composite wall material, e.g., barrier/non-barrier and whether
the gas that diffuses in is maintained longer in the balloon if it has a barrier wall versus a non
barrier wall. This particular form of self-inflation can be employed using a self-inflating gastric
balloon (e.g., initially inflated by a gas generating reaction in the balloon initiated after
swallowing), or an inflatable gastric balloon (e.g., inflated using a catheter, with or without
endoscopic assistance, delivered naso-gastrically or any other delivery method). The method
can be used with any gastric balloon, including swallowable balloons and balloons placed in
the stomach by, e.g., endoscopic methods. The method is particularly preferred for use in
connection with intragastric devices; however, it can also be applied to use in, e.g., pulmonary
wedge catheters and urinary incontinence balloon devices. The advantages to this technology
include the ability to compensate for stomach accommodation, allowing the balloon to adapt to
a stomach that may increase in volume over time, thereby maintaining patient satiety. It also
permits starting with a smaller amount of inflation gas constituents for a self-inflating balloon. It
can prevent spontaneous deflations by utilizing diffusion gradients between gastric balloon
systems and the in vivo gastric environment.

                                                  - 64
[0228]      In a particularly preferred embodiment, used in connection with N2 (with or without
C02)   as the inflation agent, a multi-layer co-extruded blend for the wall layers is employed. A
particularly preferred configuration is Nylon 12/Ethyl Methyl Acrylate/Polyvinylidene Chloride/
Ethyl Methyl Acrylate /Nylon 12/Linear Low Density Polyethylene+Low Density Polyethylene
(also referred to as co-extruded Nylon 12-encapsulated PVDC-Nylon 12-LLDPE+LDPE
multilayer). Another particularly preferred configuration is a co-extruded multi-layer Nylon
12/Linear Low Density Polyethylene+Low Density Polyethylene. Selection of the resins for the
composite wall construction (as well as selection of using a coextrusion method or adhesives)
can be varied to control compliance (stretchiness), puncture resistance, thickness, adhesion,
sealing bond strength, orientation, acid resistance, and permeability characteristics to gasses
and water vapor to achieve a particular effect.
Automatic deflation of intragastric balloon systems
[0229]      The self-inflating (also referred to as automatic inflating) or inflatable (also referred to
as manually inflating) intragastric balloon is provided with mechanisms to reliably control timing
of deflation. In preferred embodiments, the balloon auto-deflates and passes through the
stomach, through the lower gastrointestinal tract, and out of the body at the end of its pre
determined useful life (non-spontaneous), preferably between 30 and 90 days but can be
timed to deflate within 6 months. In the preferred embodiments described below, the timing of
deflation can be accomplished via the external gastric environment (by conditions of
temperature, humidity, solubility, and/or pH, for example) or via the environment within the
lumen of the inflated balloon. It is preferable for consistency to control the initiation of the self
deflation process by manipulating the internal balloon environment.
[0230]      In other embodiments, the patch applied to allow for inverted seams as described
above and/or one or more additional patches or other structures added to the balloon
construction are made out of an erodible, degradable, or dissolvable material (natural or
synthetic) and are incorporated into the wall of the balloon. The patch(s) are of sufficient size
to ensure opening of a sufficient surface area to cause rapid deflation, and to prevent re
inflation by seepage of stomach fluid into the balloon. The balloon patch(s) comprise materials
that can be applied to the balloon such that a substantially smooth surface is maintained, and
preferably comprise a single layer or multi-layered material. The patch(s) are constructed
using an erodible, disintegrable, degradable or other such material that is preferably tissue
compatible and degrades into non-toxic products or is a material that slowly hydrolyzes and/or
dissolves over time (e.g., poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), poly(lactide-co-glycolide) (PLG),
polyglycolic acid (PGA), polycaprolactone (PCL), polyesteramide (PEA), polyhydroxyalkanoate

                                                 - 65
(PHBV), polybutylene succinate adipate (PBSA), aromatic copolyesters (PBAT), poly(lactide
co-caprolactone) (PLCL), polyvinyl alcohol (PVOH), polylactic acid (PLA), poly-L-lactic acid
PLAA, pullulan, polyethylene glycol (PEG), polyanhydrides, polyorthoesters,
polyaryletherketones (PEEK), multi-block polyetheresters, poliglecaprone, polydioxanone,
polytrimethylene carbonate, and other similar materials). These erodible, disintegrable, or
degradable materials can be used alone, or in combination with other materials, or can be cast
into/co-extruded, laminated, and/or dip coated in conjunction with non-erodible polymers (e.g.,
PET or the like) and employed in the construction of the balloon. Degradation/erosion occurs,
is initiated by, and/or is controlled by the gastric environment (e.g., by conditions of
temperature, humidity, solubility, and/or pH, for example), or is controlled within the lumen of
the balloon (e.g., by conditions of humidity and/or derived pH, for example) based on what the
patch is exposed to. Thickness of the polymer as well as environment which affects
degradation and time of exposure can also facilitate degradation timing. Degradation/erosion
are timed such that they occur once the pre-determined balloon useful life is completed (e.g.,
inflation is maintained for from 25 to 90 days in vivo in the stomach before degradation/erosion
results in formation of an opening permitting deflation). As an alternative to (or in connection
with) using an degradable material for the patch, the patch can comprise a similar fluid
retention barrier film or the same film as the remaining wall of the balloon which is adhered to
the balloon using a weak adhesive, or welded or adhered such that after a specified amount of
time the patch delaminates from the applied area and allows for an opening for inflation fluid
release for deflation. Or if deemed necessary for rapid deflation the entire balloon composite
wall can be made of the erodible material.      The mechanism of using an erodible material or a
material that mechanically fails after a pre-specified time is be similar for all embodiments for
deflation mechanisms described below as well. The timing of degradation or erosion can be
controlled using the external gastric environment (e.g., by conditions of temperature, humidity,
solubility, and/or pH, for example) and/or can be controlled by conditions within the lumen of
the balloon (e.g., by conditions of humidity and/or pH of residual liquid in the balloon).
[0231]      In other embodiments, a plug or plugs (optionally in conjunction another degradable
retaining structure) can be incorporated into the balloon construction and can consist, all or in
part, of an erodible, disintegrable, or otherwise degradable synthetic or natural polymer similar
to those described above (e.g., PLGA, PLAA, PEG, or the like). The plug can be formed into
various shapes (e.g., cylinder shape or radial shape, as depicted in FIGS. 22A-D) to achieve
various surface-to-volume ratios so as to provide a preselected and predictable bulk
degradation pattern for the erodible polymer. The plug can incorporate a releasing mechanism
that can be chemically initiated after degradation/erosion begins, such that the septum or plug

                                                - 66
material pops out of the balloon or falls inside of the balloon, thereby creating a passageway
for fluid release and subsequent deflation of the balloon. Mechanical additions that can be
used in conjunction with a plug include a degradable/erodible/disintegrable material that holds
a plug (e.g., of a non-degradable or degradable material) in place or a compressed spring
housed within the retaining structure or plug structure. More specifically one preferred
embodiment to achieve deflation can comprise a housing, a radial seal, a solid eroding core,
and a protective film attached to the external surface of the eroding core (FIGS. 22A-B). The
inside of the eroding core is exposed to the internal balloon liquid. The core creates a
compressive force that holds the seal against the housing. As the core erodes, the
compression between the housing and the radial seal is reduced until there is clearance
between the housing and the seal. Once there is clearance, gas can move freely from the
inside of the balloon to the outside environment (FIG. 24A). The seal can fall out of the
housing and into the balloon. The diameter, length, and material types can be adjusted in order
to create the deflation at a desired time point. Example materials for each component used to
achieve this deflation mechanism can be as follows. Housing - biocompatible structural
material, capable of withstanding enough radial force to form an air tight seal. Materials can
include polyethylene, polypropylene, polyurethane, UHMWPE, titanium, stainless steel, cobalt
chrome, PEEK, or nylon. Radial Seal - composed of a biocompatible elastic material, capable
of providing liquid and gas barrier to acidic environments. Materials can include silicon,
polyurethane, and latex. Eroding Core - a material capable of breaking down at a predictable
rate at given environmental conditions. Materials can include PLGA, PLA, or other
polyanhydrides that are capable of losing integrity over time or any materials listed above that
provide erodible characteristics.
[0232]      For the spring mechanism, once the material degrades, the spring is released and/or
the plug/septum is pulled into the balloon or pushed out of the balloon, thus releasing fluid
once an orifice has been created by release of the spring mechanism and pushing out or
pulling in of the plug (FIG. 24B).
[0233]      Deflation mechanisms utilizing a septum and moisture absorbing expansion material
and a moisture eroding material. The eroding materials slowly erode away when exposed to
moisture, eventually exposing the moisture absorbing expansion material. When the moisture
expanding material begins to absorb moisture, the expansion pulls the septum out of position
in the head by pushing against a septum lip or a ring attached to the septum. Pulling the
septum out of position causes an immediate deflation of the balloon (FIG. 24C). In order to
protect the expanding material from moisture until a desired timepoint, the expanding material

                                                 - 67
can be sheathed in water blocking materials, such as parylene, as well as slowly water
degrading materials. The moisture contact can be controlled by small inlet ports. The inlet
ports can be small holes, or a wick material that draws moisture in a controlled manner. The
desired deflation time is achieved through a combination of eroding materials, blocking
materials, and inlet port sizing.
[0234]     In certain embodiments, the balloon can incorporate one or more plugs in the wall of
the balloon that contain a compressed pellet (FIGS. 25A-B) or gas releasing pellet. The pellet
can be comprised of any combination of constituents that, when activated, emit C02 gas (e.g.,
sodium bicarbonate and citric acid, or potassium bicarbonate and citric acid, or the like). The
pellet can be in tablet or rod form protected by an erodible, disintegrable, or degradable
material that is preferably tissue-compatible and degrades into non-toxic products or that
slowly hydrolyzes and/or dissolves similarly to the plugs and patches described above (e.g.,
poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), polyvinyl alcohol (PVOH), polylactic acid (PLA), poly-L
lactic acid PLAA, Pullulan, Polyethylene Glycol, polyanhydrides, polyorthoesters,
polyaryletherketones (PEEK), multi-block polyetheresters, poliglecaprone, polydioxanone,
polytrimethylene carbonate, and other like materials). Degradation/erosion of the plug initiates
the reaction of the two chemicals in the pellet and subsequently leads to formation of gas (e.g.,
C02).   As sufficient gas is trapped or built up, sufficient pressure is eventually generated to
push out the softened polymer material and create a larger channel for the C02 gas in the
balloon to escape. External pressure applied by the stomach to the balloon (e.g., squeezing)
can contribute to the process of creating a larger channel. Dimensions and properties of the
plug (diameter, thickness, composition, molecular weight, etc.) comprised of the polymer drives
the timing of degradation.
[0235]     In other embodiments, plugs or patches of different shapes or sizes similar to those
of the plugs described above can be employed within the balloon lumen in a multi-layer
configuration including a semi-permeable membrane to facilitate balloon deflation. The plug or
patch is made of similar degradable/erodible/dissolvable material as described above (e.g.,
poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA), polyvinyl alcohol (PVOH), polylactic acid (PLA), PLAA,
pullulan, and other like materials) and contains a compartment enclosed by a semi-permeable
membrane (impermeable to an osmolyte) that contains a concentrated solution of a solute or
osmolyte (such as glucose, sucrose, other sugars, salts, or combination thereof). Once the
plug or patch begins to degrade or erode, the water molecules move by osmosis down the
water gradient from the region of greater water concentration to the region of lower water
concentration across the semi-permeable membrane into the hypertonic solution in the

                                                - 68
compartment. The compartment containing the osmolyte swells and eventually bursts,
pushing the membranes and the degraded plug or patch out, thereby allowing rapid gas loss
through the newly created channels or areas.
[0236]      In certain embodiments, a balloon composed of a septum, moisture eroding material
inside an inlet port, and moisture absorbing expansion material is employed. The eroding
materials slowly erode away when exposed to moisture, eventually exposing the moisture
absorbing expansion material. When the moisture expanding material begins to absorb
moisture, the expansion pulls the septum out of position in the head by pushing against a
septum lip or a ring attached to the septum. Pulling the septum out of position causes an
immediate deflation of the balloon. In order to protect the expanding material from moisture
until a desired time point has been reached, the expanding material can be sheathed in water
blocking materials, such as parylene, as well as slowly water degrading materials. The
moisture contact can be controlled by small inlet ports. The inlet ports can be small holes, or a
wick material that draws moisture in a controlled manner. The desired deflation time is
achieved through a combination of eroding materials, blocking materials, and inlet port sizing.
[0237]     Another mechanism for self-deflation is to create a forced de-lamination scheme,
which can provide a larger surface area to ensure rapid deflation. In, e.g., a balloon having a
tri-layer wall, the outermost layer is substantially strong enough to hold the inflation fluid (e.g.,
polyethylene terephthalate (PET) or the like), the middle layer is comprised entirely of an
erodible material (e.g., PVOH or the like) while the inner layer is comprised of a weaker
material (e.g., polyethylene (PE) or the like). The PET or outermost layer is "scored" or
hatched with erodible material to create small channels that erode over time (FIG. 23). This
creates channels such that the gastric fluid seeps into the balloon layers and starts degrading
the fully erodible material. When the erodible layer degrades or dissolves, the material that
composes the innermost layer also erodes, degrades or dissolves since it is not strong enough
to withstand the gastric forces/environment on its own. The balloon then collapses on itself and
eventually passes through the lower gastrointestinal tract. Having an erodible layer
sandwiched between a strong and weak layer facilitates timing of erosion by creating a longer
path length than an erodible plug or patch affected by the gastric environment. The distance
between scores or openings can also be selected so as to provide a desired deflation rate.
[0238]      In another embodiment providing abrupt deflation of the balloon after a desired
period of time has elapsed, the composite wall of the entire balloon or a section of the
composite wall (patch) includes several material layers that are slowly penetrated by water that

                                                 - 69
has been injected inside the balloon during the manufacturing process or during the inflation
process (FIGS. 27A-E). This water penetrates through the layers, eventually reaching a
material that substantially expands, rupturing a thin external protective later, and creating a
large hole (FIG. 27D) for gas to escape and the balloon to deflate. The water expanding
material is protected from liquid via a coating or sheath, such as parylene, which allows a
controllable amount of moisture exposure. Once water reaches the expansion material, it
exerts a force on the protective outer layer, causing it to rupture. The outer layer may be
created with a weakened bonding area (FIG. 27E), a partially scored area, or other methods of
ensuring a desired rupture location and to facilitate desired timing for auto-deflation to take
place. There can be any number of layers between the moist environment and the moisture
expanding center. Each material layer can have different erosion rates (e.g., fast or slow) and
can be selected by the predetermined time deflation is desired to occur (e.g., after 30 days, 60
days, or more). By varying the number, thickness, and rate of each of the circumferential
layers, the time to deflation can be accurately controlled.
[0239]      Alternatively a pressure sealing button that is adhesively bonded over a perforation
in the balloon material can be provided for deflation (FIG. 28A and B). The adhesive bonding
the button erodes over time when it comes into contact with moisture derived from the gastric
fluid or that has been injected inside the balloon. Once the adhesive can no longer bond and
create an airtight seal between the adhesive and the button, the balloon will rapidly deflate. By
controlling the hole size and moisture exposure of the adhesive, the erosion time can be
accurately predicted.
[0240]      Deflation can also be facilitated by creating a series of connecting ports within the
septum or on another similar structure attached to the balloon composite wall. The ports can
be constructed using a water-dissolving or acid-dissolving, biologically compatible, low
permeability substance, such as gelatin (FIG. 29A-B). The diameter of the hole, number of
holes, channel width, and channel length can all be adjusted to control the dissolving
parameters. Once the material in the ports and channel is dissolved, there is a clear path for
gas trapped in the balloon to escape, eventually resulting in a deflated balloon. The water can
be gastric fluid or controlled internally by including water inside the balloon at assembly or
during the inflation process. There can be a plurality of port openings to guarantee gas
transmits. Additionally, there are several variables that can be adjusted to control dissolution
time: size of the port openings; number of port openings; the length of the internal channel; the
width of the internal channel; and the rate of material dissolution. The port/channel layout
design can ensure that only a small amount of surface area is exposed to moisture at any

                                                 - 70
particular time, thereby controlling the rate of erosion and ultimately deflation.      In an
alternative embodiment, depicted in FIGS. 29D-E, an expandable material is employed to
displace a push out component so as to initiate deflation.
[0241]       A preferred embodiment of manually inflated balloon that also possesses a
mechanism for self-deflation would be a port that encompasses an inflation and deflation
mechanism in the same location (See FIG. 30A). The device comprises a catheter needle
sleeve, e.g., of nylon or plastic that seals to silicon parts, that is attached to inflation tube when
filling. It further comprises a silicon head which seals to the needle sleeve, allowing for
inflation and detachment from the catheter. The silicon head also seals to part # 6 until
pushed out of position by expanding part #7. The needle, e.g., fabricated from stainless steel,
inflates the balloon. A compression Seal between part #6 and #2 vents internal gas when
displaced. An insert, e.g., of titanium, provides imaging visibility (FIG. 30B), and provides rigid
support for parts #2 and #4, and interference locks, sliding fits, and press fits to part #6. A
septum, e.g., of silicon, seals to part #3 during inflation. The casing, e.g., PEEK or hard
plastic, bonds to the balloon outer film and provides a sealing surface to part #2. It contains
vents from inside the balloon to outside the balloon after part #7 expands. The expanding
device, e.g., polyacrylamide in a binder material surrounded by a controlled moisture vapor
transmission rate material (assorted blends of polyurethanes in varying thicknesses) uses the
moisture available inside the balloon to uptake and swell in size. The press fit between parts
#5 and #6 holds the parts firmly in position until part #7 begins to expand from moisture
uptake.
[0242]       In preferred embodiments, the invention includes a self-sealing valve that is
compatible with an inflation catheter that contains a needle and needle sleeve. The self
sealing valve is sealed to the needle sleeve during the inflation process. Distal to the self
sealing valve is a titanium, stainless steel, MP35N, or any other radio-opaque rigid material
insert that provides imaging visibility as well as mechanical support during the inflation
process. Beneath the insert is the deflation mechanism that consists of an expanding device.
The expanding device consists of a solute material, i.e. polyacrylamide material or the like
encased in a binder material surrounded by moisture limiting material that has a defined
moisture vapor transmission rate (MVTR). Moisture rate limiting material examples include but
are not limited to assorted blends of polyurethanes in varying thicknesses. A hard plastic
casing, such as PEEK, encompasses the self-sealing valves, the radio-opaque insert, the
expanding material, and the moisture rate limiting material. The hard plastic case contains
vents that would allow fluid to flow between the inside and outside of the balloon if the outer

                                                  - 71
seal were not in position. The radio-opaque insert is coupled to the hard plastic casing via
mechanical means, such as a press fit, that allow for linear movement but do not allow it to
expel from the hard plastic casing. A second outer sealing valve creates an airtight seal to the
hard plastic casing, blocking the casing vents, and moves linearly as the expanding device
gains volume. Moisture placed inside of the balloon is absorbed by the expanding device as
well as contributing moisture from the external gastric environment. Once the moisture
transfers, the expanding material develops enough pressure such that the outer sealing valve
is pushed linearly past the lip of the casing. This opens a vent pathway that allows the internal
inflation fluid to quickly decompress and deflate the balloon. A deflated balloon allows for
passing through the pylorus and through the remainder of the alimentary canal. One or
multiple inflation/deflation ports on the surface of the balloon can be employed.
[0243]      An alternative embodiment where the inflation port and deflation port are separate
entities is depicted in FIG. 31.     The device comprises a seal, e.g., of Buna rubber or similar
sealing material, to provide an airtight seal between parts #1 and #3. It slides along the surface
of part #3 until airtight seal fails and allows internal air out. The vent allows gas to flow from
the balloon once the seals displaces. Also included are a titanium plunger, a water retainer
(cotton or sponge-like material that is capable of retaining water and holding it against the
surface of part #4 in order to maintain a constant moisture environment) and a casing of PEEK
or other hard material that seals via adhesive to the balloon film and provides rigid containment
for parts #1, 2, 4, and 5. The design also allows venting between internal and external balloon
environment, and water ingress to part #4 which forces part #4 to expand in one direction. An
expanding device, polyacrylamide in a binder material surrounded by a controlled moisture
vapor transmission rate material (assorted blends of polyurethanes in varying thicknesses)
uses the moisture available inside the balloon to uptake The device can include a hard outer
casing made of hard plastic or metal, an expanding device consisting of a super absorbent
core surrounded by a moisture vapor transmission rate limiting membrane, and an airtight seal
that is able to move linearly while the moisture expanding device grows in volume. The
expanding device expands at a given rate based on how much moisture is available to it. In
order to control the rate of expansion, a membrane, such as polyurethane, is used to control
the desired moisture vapor transmission rate that is available to the super absorbent device.
The moisture vapor transmission rate can be tuned by material formulation or material
thickness. In order to maintain constant moisture contact to the moisture vapor limiting
membrane, a sponge like material, such as cotton, can be used as a moisture reservoir for the
expanding device. Once the expanding device pushes the seal past the lip of the hard outer
casing, fluid can vent from inside the balloon to the external environment, causing the balloon

                                                 - 72
to deflate and pass through the pylorus and the remainder of the alimentary canal. The
balloon can have at least one deflation port but may have as many as deemed necessary to
deflate the balloon such that it completely deflates and no residual inflation fluid remains that
would cause a bowel obstruction (i.e., partial deflation).
[0244]      A mechanism to facilitate passing involves an erosion mechanism that allows for the
balloon to be broken down into a size that has a higher probability of predictably passing
through the lower gastrointestinal system. Preferably, the size of the balloon as deflated is
less than 5cm long and 2 cm thick (similar to various foreign objects of similar size that have
been shown to pass predictably and easily through the pyloric sphincter). This can be
accomplished by providing the balloon with "erodible seams." One seam that breaks the
balloon open into (at a minimum) two halves, or more seams are provided so that a plurality of
smaller balloon pieces is produced in the dissociation reaction (FIG. 18). The number of
seams used can be selected based on the original surface area of the balloon and what is
required to dissociate the balloon into pieces that are of a size that can predictably pass
through the gastrointestinal tract more easily. The rate of seam erosion can be controlled by
using a material affected by, e.g., the external gastric environment pH, liquid, humidity,
temperature, or a combination thereof. Seams can be single layer consisting of only erodible
material, or multi-layer. The timing of self-deflation can be further controlled by the design of
the seam layers, e.g., making the reaction and/or degradation of the seam material dependent
on the internal environment of the balloon instead of the external environment. By
manipulating the reaction such that erosion or degradation is initiated by the internal
environment (e.g., the balloon's internal pH, humidity, or other factors), any impact of person
to-person gastric variability (pH, etc.) that can affect erosion timing is minimized. The internal
balloon environment can be manipulated by adding excess water at injection to create a more
humid internal environment, or the amount of constituents added can be varied to manipulate
the pH, etc.
Example
[0245]      A disposable Nitrogen Fill System and Procedure Canister devices are provided as
accessories to the Obalon Gastric Balloon (OGB). In use, the cap is removed from the valve
of a disposable Nitrogen Fill System. This disposable Nitrogen Fill System is inserted into a
Procedure Canister and the lever is closed to engage the valve on the disposable canister. A
lack of a fluid path of a lower pressure gradient keeps the fluid from expelling. The Procedure
Canister is attached to an Accessory Kit via a luer fitting. A 3-port, 2 position valve on the
Accessory Kit is confirmed closed before opening the 900 valve. Appropriate pressure is

                                                - 73
confirmed via the digital gauge, then a standard OGB System inflation procedure commences
and the fluid path is opened to the balloon in the body. After the procedure, the disposable
Nitrogen Fill System is removed from Procedure Canister and properly disposed of. The
Procedure Canister is re-used and can have a useful life, e.g., of at least 1 year.
[0246]      The Nitrogen Fill System is an appropriate size to fit into the canister dispenser, e.g.,
a major outer diameter of the non-valved canister is 45  1mm. The Nitrogen Fill System is an
appropriate size to fit into the canister dispenser     , e.g., a height of the non-valved canister is
115  1mm. The Nitrogen Fill System is pressure resistant, e.g., having an 18 bar pressure
resistance. The internal volume of the Nitrogen Fill System is adequate to fill a Balloon Kit at
appropriate fill pressure, e.g., a brimful volume of non-valved canister is 161  3 cm3. The
Nitrogen Fill System is accurately pressurized, e.g., sampling direct pressure measurement are
within 1 psi or 7 Kpa. The assembled Nitrogen Fill System is bubble tight, e.g., a
pressurized disposable canisters is tested visually for leaks via a water bath bubble detection
test. A volume of the canister allows for enough air at a pressure that is not great enough to
rupture the catheter, .e.g, a pressure of fully pressurized canister is not to exceed 75 psi. The
Procedure Canister has the ability to connect to the Balloon Kit. The Procedure Canister
contains a luer fitting that connects to a swallow catheter. The Procedure Canister has an
effective valve for inflation.   The Nitrogen Fill System has a    1/4 turn valve. The valve is
designed for gas and has an operational pressure range which includes 1 to 75 psi. The
Procedure Canister precisely displays pressure. The Procedure Canister contains a digital
gauge with 0.01 psi resolution or 0.1 KPA resolution.      The Pressurized Nitrogen Fill System is
bubble tight, e.g., no bubbles per bubble leak test in 130'F water bath for 1.5 minutes. The
Nitrogen Fill System fills the balloon to proper pressure, e.g., 2.0 +/-.5 psi at sea level. The
pressure is retained by the assembled Nitrogen Fill System effectively enough to not place
balloon fill pressures outside of specification. The mass of contained gas is not to drop more
than <5 psi over the course of 1 year. The Procedure Canister is reliable for at least 1 year,
and the Procedure Canister is good for at least 1000 actuation cycles. The Procedure
Canister is compatible with the Nitrogen Fill System. The Dynamic components of the
Procedure Canister can cycle through intended range of motion with the disposable canister
inserted.
[0247]      The Procedure Canister opens the disposable canister valve when the receiver is
closed. The Procedure Canister is capable of dispensing contents of the Nitrogen Fill System
to support a total system procedure time goal of 5-10 minutes. The Fully pressurized Nitrogen
Fill System can be dispensed within 30 seconds. The Procedure Canister's digital gauge

                                                 - 74
provides advance notification of a low battery level. The digital gauge contains a low battery
indicator. Procedure Canister's digital gauge battery life shall be useful for the service life of
the device. The digital gauge battery life is rated at least 2000 hours. The batteries are
standard and replaceable in the field as needed. The digital gauge preserves the battery when
not in use, e.g., by automatically shuting off 60 minutes from last button press. The Procedure
Canister seals to the Nitrogen Fill System in such a way to prevent leaks. The Nitrogen Fill
System engaged in the Procedure Canister does not leak more than 0.1 psi over 5 minutes.
The Procedure Canister's Digital Pressure Gauge is electromagnetically compatible. The
Procedure Canister's gauge readings are easy to read, e.g., the gauge size is at least 3"
diameter with a digital display. The Procedure Canister's pressure gauge is intuitive to
operate, e.g., the gauge has one touch on and off button that is clearly labeled. The actuator
on Procedure Canister for inflation of the balloon is intuitive, e.g., a colored valve lever with
only on and off positions is used for initial balloon fill from the Procedure Canister. The
Nitrogen Fill System is easily inserted into the Procedure Canister, e.g., the Procedure
Canister opening is large and obviously apparent.
[0248]       The mass of nitrogen contained by Nitrogen Fill System is appropriate to attain a
desired final balloon pressure, e.g., the Nitrogen Fill System sample is weighed before and
after filling to assure .52  .01 grams of gas. The Procedure Canister has a digital gauge with
adequate accuracy to ensure final balloon pressure is attained           , e.g., the Procedure
Canister's digital gauge has an accuracy of 0.25% of Full Scale. The Procedure Canister has
a digital gauge that maintains accuracy over its useful life, e.g., the Procedure Canister's digital
gauge has an accuracy of 0.25% of Full Scale after 1000 cycles of 0 psi to 30 psi or 0 KPa to
26 Kpa. The Nitrogen Fill System is preferably operated under reasonable environmental
conditions, e.g., temperatures of from -18'C to 55'C and relative humidities of from 30% to
85%. The altitude classification system is used in altitude of a < 2000m (61 to 101 Kpa).
[0249]       The Obalon Gastric Balloon System (the "System" or OGB) is designed to assist
weight loss by partially filling the stomach and inducing satiety. The System consists of up to 3
intragastric balloons that are placed non-invasively in the stomach (via a catheter-capsule
assembly) and reside in the stomach for up to 3 months (12 weeks). For administration, each
balloon is contained within a medical-grade porcine gelatin capsule, which is attached to a
miniature catheter. The balloon capsule delivers the balloon in the same manner that a
medicinal capsule delivers pharmaceuticals. The catheter comes pre-attached to the
compacted Balloon's radio-opaque, re-sealing valve. For administration of the device
(placement), the catheter/capsule is swallowed by the patient. The catheter is then attached to

                                                  - 75
a Procedure Canister that contains a disposable Nitrogen Fill System that is used to fill the
balloon. After the patient swallows the balloon capsule, radiography is done to ensure the
balloon is in the stomach after swallow (visualized by the radio-opaque marker). The preferred
radiographic method is fluoroscopy since it provides a real-time picture of the balloon using low
levels of radiation. A fully inflated single balloon is an ellipsoide with a volume of
approximately 250cc. When 3 balloons are placed the total balloon volume is 750cc. The
administration procedure requires no sedation. After inflation is complete, the catheter is
manually ejected from the balloon valve and retrieved by the physician; leaving the balloon
free-floating in the patient's stomach for up to 3 months.
[0250]      Balloon use can employ the concurrent use of Proton Pump Inhibitors for the
duration of use, e.g., 40 mg/day of pantoprazol or an equivalent dosage of similar
medications. It is likely an effective treatment for undiagnosed pre-existing esophagitis and
gastritis which should enhance tolerability of the devices in residence. Antiemetic and
spasmolytic agents can be given immediately following balloon placement and given as
needed while the balloon(s) are in the stomach.
[0251]      Clinical trials have shown that it is preferred to place one balloon initially and
subsequent balloons be placed later in the 3 month period (FIG. 32). Determination of whether
a patient requires additional volume should be made based on patient weight loss progress
and reported satiety levels. Additional balloons are placed in the same manner as the first
balloon placement; requiring only radiography for placement.
[0252]      The balloon helps the patient eat less food at each sitting. The selection of less
calorie dense foods in addition to the balloon(s) will only help facilitate weight loss. The
balloons are intended to remain in the stomach for 3 months (12 weeks) from the time of
placement of the first balloon. All balloons placed are removed at the end of three months
using standard endoscopic methods. The device(s) are removed by a trained healthcare
professional proficient in gastroscopy.
[0253]      The health care setting in which the device is to be used has access to fluoroscopy
or digital x-ray at the time the device is administered, to ascertain the balloon/capsule
placement in the stomach prior to inflation. In addition, the prescribing physician has
immediate access to an endoscopy unit and personnel proficient in gastroscopy and foreign
object retrieval should problems arise during administration. Gastroscopy equipment and
persons trained in foreign object retrieval are employed for device removal.

                                                   - 76
[0254]      The Obalon Gastric Balloon System (the "System") is indicated for temporary use for
weight loss in overweight and obese adults with a BMI of 27 or greaterwho have previously
failed a supervised weight control program. The Obalon Gastric Balloon system is intended to
be used in conjunction with a diet and behavior modification program. Up to 3 Obalon Gastric
Balloons may be placed in the stomach across a 3-month (12-week) period based on the
individual's weight loss progress and satiety levels. The maximum placement period for the
Obalon Gastric Balloon(s) is 3 months (12-weeks) and all balloons must be removed at that
time or earlier.
[0255]      All components are supplied non-sterile. The System can include the following: a
Placebo Capsule Assembly including a capsule of the same material, size, shape and weight
as the actual device but that does not contain a balloon or catheter. The capsule is filled with
food-grade sugar to simulate device weight; an Obalon Gastric Balloon Assembly including
one folded balloon contained in a swallowable Gelatin Capsule and attached to 1 disposable,
flexible Catheter Delivery System (FIG. 33); an Accessory Kit including two 3 cm3 Syringes, an
extension tube and stopcock with a 3-way valve (FIG. 34), and a 60 cm3 syringe; a Procedure
Canister which is a reusable component and is used in conjuction with the disposable Nitrogen
Fill System with the Digital Pressure Gauge attached (FIG. 35); two AAA Batteries; and a
Nitrogen Fill System filled with 150 cm3 of nitrogen. Other items that can be used in
conjuntion with administering and/or removing the System include a small clean bowl, bottled
water, timer / clock, digital X-Ray or fluoroscope, vacuum aspiration source, gastroscope,
gastroscope Injection Needle (minimum length can be 6 mm and minimum needle gauge size
can be 23) compatible with the working channel of the gastroscope, and a rat tooth with
alligator jaws grasping forceps (minimum opening width can be 15 mm) or other commercially
available endoscopy retrieval tools such as two-prong graspers, compatible with the working
channel of the gastroscope.
[0256]      The Procedure Canister is prepared for use by first ensuring that the Procedure
Canister is correct for the altitude of the facility or contains a barometric pressure
compensation valve to adjust the starting pressure to ensure proper balloon end pressure.
Failure to use the correct Procedure Canister can result in a deflated or over inflated balloon.
The Procedure Canister valve is in the open position (FIG. 36). The "ON" button is pressed to
turn on the Procedure Canister Gauge. The extension tube and stopcock with 3-way valve is
removed from the Accessory Kit packaging. The luer lock plug is removed from the end of the
Procedure Canister Gauge (FIG. 37). The luer lock plug is saved and put back on the
Procedure Canister after the procedure is complete to keep the Procedure Canister free of

                                                 - 77
debris. The proximal end of the luer connector of the extension tube (from the Accessory Kit)
is connected to the Procedure Canister (FIG. 38) with valve open. The stop cock valve is in
the closed position to stop the flow of gas (FIG. 39). The cap is removed from the Disposable
Canister. The canister is configured to not fit into the Canister Dispenser if this cap is not
removed (FIG. 40). With the lever in the 'open' position, the disposable Nitrogen Fill System is
inserted straight down into the Canister Dispenser (FIG. 41). The lever is set to the 'closed'
position to secures the disposable Nitrogen Fill System in place (FIG. 42). The initial reading
on the gauge is confirmed to be between 257 kpa and 297 kpa, to ensure proper balloon
inflation. The valve on the Procedure Canister is closed by rotating the valve clockwise (to the
right) (FIG. 43). The Procedure Canister valve is in the closed position before proceeding to
next steps to ensure the proper positioning and status of the balloon capsule prior to
proceeding to the balloon fill step. The 3 cm3 syringe is removed from its packaging and filled
with 1.5ml of room temperature water and set aside. A small clean bowl half-way with water.
The Obalon Gastric Balloon Capsule and Catheter Delivery System are removed from their
packaging.
[0257]      Prior to the patient swallowing the functioning device, it is recommended that they
first swallow the placebo capsule. The purpose of this procedure is to determine which patients
will and will not be good candidates to have the actual device placed. The placebo capsule
should go down easily. If the patient swallows the placebo capsule without problem it is
recommended that they procede with the Balloon therapy.
[0258]      The Obalon Balloon capsule is administered to tha patient using a normal pill
swallowing method. Endoscopy is not required for placement. Fluoroscopy (or digital x-ray) is
employed during the placement procedure to verify placement of the balloon in the stomach
prior to inflation of the device. Any existing balloons are also imaged to confirm their integrity
prior to swallowing another capsule. The total placement time is less than 15 minutes for each
balloon placed.
[0259]      Should a patient have a strong gag reflex, a topical anesthetic may be applied
immediately before capsule administration. To place the balloon, it is preferred that the patient
has no lipstick, gloss, or emollients on their lips that could affect the administration process.
The patient preferably stands or sits upright, and three large gulps of water are administered to
prepare for capsule administration.     The patient can be instructed not to bite down on the
catheter, to close his/her mouth on catheter, to hold onto the catheter by hand, or to grab the
catheter. The Capsule/Catheter is wet by submerging into the bowl of water for no more than

                                                 - 78
10 seconds. Within 1 minute of submerging the capsule in the water, the patient is handed the
capsule/catheter and instructed to place the capsule immediately in the mouth and swallow the
capsule with another large glass of water. The Proximal Catheter Port is held outside of the
patient's mouth. The time of placement of the capsule/catheter in the mouth for swallow is
documented. The patients is given additional water or juice (at least 100 ml) after swallow.
The patient remains in an upright sitting or standing position the entire time. The patient is
asked to continually drink water or juice to facilitate peristalsis of the capsule/catheter if the
balloon has not visibly passed into the stomach. Once swallowed, the proximal end of the
capsule/catheter assembly remains outside of the patients' mouth until after the balloon is
filled. The catheter may have markings that are to be used as a reference guide to help
determine how far the catheter has traveled after swallow or to be used with or without the
radiography verification and with or without measurement provided by the digital gauge. When
the 'bull's-eye' marking is at the patient's teeth, this indicates that the balloon is approximately
45 cm down the esophagus and fluoroscopy is used at this time to determine if the balloon is in
the stomach (FIG. 44). The preferred method to confirm proper balloon placement prior to
inflation is with radiography (fluoroscopy/digital x-ray). The catheter markings can be used for
additional reference as to when to properly perform the radiography or could be used alone to
verify the length traveled into the stomach.
[0260]      The Procedure Canister with the extension tube from the Accessory Kit is connected
to the balloon catheter by connecting the catheter to the male luer port on the 3-way stopcock
of the extension line previously connected to the Procedure Canister (FIG. 45). The lure
fittings are tightened snugly with fingers. The valve on the Procedure Canister is in the closed
position before proceeding to next steps to ensure the proper positioning and status of the
balloon capsule prior to proceeding to the balloon fill.
[0261]      Approximately 1-2 minutes after swallow, digital x-ray or fluoroscopy is performed
with the patient standing or sitting upright, to determine location of the radio-opaque balloon
marker in the stomach.     At least 3-5 minutes after swallow, a second verification of device
location is performed using the Procedure Canister. This is accomplished by turning the
Procedure Canister Digital Gauge on by pressing the "ON" button, turning on the Gauge
Backlight, pressing the "ON" button on again, and turning the 3-way valve on the stopcock
counterclockwise 90 degrees until the valve stops to open the flow of gas from extension
tubing to the balloon (FIG. 46). The pressure initially drops on the pressure gauge by
approximately 20 kPa and then proceeds to below 7 kPa when the capsule dissolves. This
takes approximately 45 seconds but no longer than 4 minutes. If the pressure remains above

                                                  - 79
7 kPa, then the capsule has not dissolved sufficiently or the catheter is kinked. Having the
patient drink more liquid may facilitate capsule dissolution. The pressure is monitored for up to
4 minutes. If after this time the pressure has not dropped to less than 7.0 kPa then the
capsule has not dissolved or there is a kink in the catheter. Balloon fill steps are not initiated
until the radio-opaque balloon valve is visualized in the stomach and the Procedure Canister
pressure gauge reads less than 7.0 kPa. During inflation, if there is indication of inflation in a
constrained space (by pressure readings or patient symptoms) shut off the gas flow by closing
the valve on the Procedure Canister, detach the catheter from the Procedure Canister, and
evacuate the gas from the balloon with a 60 cm3 syringe. The balloon can then be removed
endoscopically. If the gauge reads less than 7.0 kPa, then the balloon can be filled. The
balloon is not disconnected from the catheter prior to balloon fill completion.    In the event of a
premature disconnect, the catheter is retrieved by pulling it out and then the balloon is
endoscopically punctured and removed.
[0262]      The Disposable Nitrogen Canister contains 150 cm3 of nitrogen that is transferred
into the balloon to fill a single balloon to 8.3-17.2 kPa and 250 cm3 of volume. When the
gauge remains steady after decreasing from the initial set inflation pressure, the balloon is
filled to the desired volume of 250 cm3 at the desired pressure of 13.8 kPa in approximately 2
minutes. To fill the balloon, the Procedure Canister valve is turned to the on/open position
(FIG. 47). Equilibrium is observed about 2 minutes after opening the valve (inflation time).
The final readout pressure on the Procedure Canister's digital gauge is verified as stable and
reading 8.3-17.2 kPa. If the pressure is outside of the specified range, endoscopic removal of
the balloon is performed. The pre-filled Syringe is attached to the Stopcock with a 3-way
Valve. The Stopcock with a 3-way Valve is rotated back 90 degrees to close the flow of gas
from the Procedure Canister (FIG. 48). The 3 way stopcock valve is not rotated until attached
to the pre-filled syringe so as to avoid reducing the final starting pressure in the balloon such
that the balloon may not maintain its volume for the 3 month period. The gauge is not zeroed
by holding the zero button while pressure is being transferred, to avoid the need to then
remove the balloon endoscopically.
[0263]      The catheter is retrieved by pushing the 1.5 cm3 filled Syringe plunger in one rapid
and deliberate motion, so as to detach the catheter from the balloon valve in the stomach. If
the catheter does not detach after the first attempt, the second 1.5 cm3 water filled syringe can
be used to again attempt to remove the catheter. On the second attempt, it is ensured that the
catheter is straight (there are no kinks) and that the plunger is pressed in a rapid and
deliberate motion. Force is used when pushing the Syringe, and the step is not performed

                                                 - 80
slowly to avoid the catheter not ejecting properly. If catheter remains attached to the balloon,
a second 3 ml syringe can be half way filled with water, and detachment can again be
attempted. To facilitate detachment, the patient lifts his/her chin up to help reduce any gag
reflex, then the catheter is slowly pulled out of the patient's mouth. The catheter and the
needle inside the needle sleeve are visualized (white protective hub that came attached to the
capsule device) to ensure the needle is intact. If the needle is not inside the needle sleeve,
then the balloon is removed. The catheter is separated from the Stopcock with a 3-way Valve
by unscrewing the luer lock. The location of the balloon can be reverified using X-ray or
fluoroscopy.
[0264]      The disposable Nitrogen Fill System can be removed from the Procedure Canister
and discarded. To remove, the Procedure Canister lever is moved to the 'open' position, and
the Nitrogen Fill System is pushed up from the opposite side of the Procedure Canister, or the
Procedure Canister is flipped upside down and the disposable Nitrogen Fill System naturally
falls out. The Procedure Canister is reused for the next balloon placement.
[0265]      The patient can be advised to drink liquids for the first 24 hours and then transition to
soft solids for the next 24 hours (in the first 48-hours after placement). Patients are instructed
not drink alcohol, sodas or other "fizzy" or carbonated drinks. After 3 days patients are able to
return to solid foods and follow the diet and behavior modification program provided to them by
their physician.
[0266]      While placement of the balloon does not require endoscopy; it can be desirable that
a trained endoscopist be readily available should there be a problem with swallow of the
balloon or an undiscovered swallowing disorder is detected during the procedure.         The
following should be considered if a patient is unsuccessful at his/her first placement attempt. If
the device does not pass the pharynx in the patient's mouth after 30 seconds of attempting
swallow, the capsule is removed from the mouth. A new wetted balloon capsule/catheter
assembly is used. If the patient fails two attempts, this issue is discussed with the patient and
it is determined if the patient remains a good candidate for the therapy. If the failure to swallow
is due to anxiety, standard methods to reduce the patient's anxiety can be used. Esophageal
transit of the device can be facilitated by use of clear carbonated beverages.
[0267]      Patients are advised to report a change in satiety (i.e. increased hunger), and/or
weight gain as this may be a sign that an additional balloon for therapy might be warranted. If
multiple balloons have been placed and the patient reports a change in satiety levels (i.e.

                                                 - 81
reduced early satiety), this may be a sign of balloon deflation. Balloon deflation can be
evaluated using radiography (film x-ray, digital x-ray, or fluoroscopy) and gastroscopy as
appropriate. Patients are advised to contact their physician if the frequency of adverse events
experienced is more than anticipated or becomes intolerable.       Concurrent use of Proton Pump
Inhibitors can be desirable for the duration of use, e.g., 40 mg/day of pantoprazol or an
equivalent dosage of similar medications, in that it is likely an effective treatment for
undiagnosed pre-existing esophagitis and gastritis which may enhance tolerability of the
devices in residence. Antiemetic and spasmolytic agents can be given immediately following
balloon placement and given as needed while the balloon(s) are in the stomach.
[0268]      After 12 weeks of use the balloon or balloons are removed from the patient.     The
procedure is conducted using a working length endoscope less than 1200 mm and the inner
diameter is compatible with the accessory tools suggested for puncture and retrieval of the
balloon. Suggested tools include a needle instrument, e.g., an injector needle in a Teflon
Sleeve 23G     x 6 mm or similar having a lumen for suction, a Rat Tooth Grasper with Alligator
Jaws or Two Jaw Grasping Forceps (with a minimum opening width of 15 mm); or a two prong
graspers with same minimum opening. Other retrieval tools may be acceptable for retrieving
the balloons. Retrieval procedures in general are conducted per the gastroscope
manufacturer's instructions for retrieving foreign objects. The endoscopy procedure performed
is similar to that of an interventional or therapeutic procedure, however tailoring the endoscopic
approach according to the unique product features is recommended, e.g., balloons should only
be punctured once, so that the maximum amount of gas can be aspirated (via vacuum) from
them, and a lesser degree of stomach inflation (less air insufflation) allows for easier puncture
of the balloon. A typical capsule may include as ingredients porcine gelatin, water,
methylparaben, propylparaben, and sodium lauryl sulfate. A typical balloon may be
constructed from nylon and polyethylene (as wall materials), silicone (in the valve), and
titanium (as a radioopaque component). The procedure canister is typically constructed of
Stainless Steel, 6061 AL, Brass, Acetal, and Silicone. The Nitrogen Fill System contains 150
cm 3 of Nitrogen at 18 barr.
[0269]      Preferably, patients are fasted at least 24 hours or per hospital protocol for
gastroscope procedures to ensure the stomach is empty and the balloon(s) are therefore
easily visible. The patient is anesthetized per hospital and physician recommendations for
gastroscope procedures. The gastroscope is inserted into the patient's stomach, and a clear
view of the filled balloons is obtained through the gastroscope. The needle instrument is
inserted down the working channel of the gastroscope. The valve of the balloon is located and

                                                - 82
the balloon is punctured with the needle only once (at the opposite end of the valve if possible
for easier removal). Suction is applied and balloon gas is aspirated using a large syringe
(60cc) or aspiration tube. The needle is removed from the working channel, and the graspers
are insterted through the working channel. The balloon is grabbed with the graspers at the
opposite end of the valve. With a firm grasp on the balloon, the balloon is slowly extracted up
through the esophagus, removing the balloon through the mouth. The removal procedure is
repeated for the remainder of the balloons, if any.
[0270]      The present invention has been described above with reference to specific
embodiments. However, other embodiments than the above described are equally possible
within the scope of the invention. Different method steps than those described above may be
provided within the scope of the invention. The different features and steps of the invention
may be combined in other combinations than those described. The scope of the invention is
only limited by the appended patent claims.
[0271]      All references cited herein are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. To
the extent publications and patents or patent applications incorporated by reference contradict
the disclosure contained in the specification, the specification is intended to supersede and/or
take precedence over any such contradictory material.
[0272]      To the extent publications and patents or patent applications incorporated by
reference herein contradict the disclosure contained in the specification, the specification is
intended to supersede and/or take precedence over any such contradictory material.
[0273]      Unless otherwise defined, all terms (including technical and scientific terms) are to
be given their ordinary and customary meaning to a person of ordinary skill in the art, and are
not to be limited to a special or customized meaning unless expressly so defined herein.
[0274]      Terms and phrases used in this application, and variations thereof, unless otherwise
expressly stated, should be construed as open ended as opposed to limiting. As examples of
the foregoing, the term 'including' should be read to mean 'including, without limitation' or the
like; the term 'comprising' as used herein is synonymous with 'including,' 'containing,' or
'characterized by,' and is inclusive or open-ended and does not exclude additional, unrecited
elements or method steps; the term 'example' is used to provide exemplary instances of the
item in discussion, not an exhaustive or limiting list thereof; adjectives such as 'known',
'normal', 'standard', and terms of similar meaning should not be construed as limiting the item

                                                    - 83
described to a given time period or to an item available as of a given time, but instead should
be read to encompass known, normal, or standard technologies that may be available or
known now or at any time in the future; and use of terms like 'preferably,' 'preferred,' 'desired,'
or 'desirable,' and words of similar meaning should not be understood as implying that certain
features are critical, essential, or even important to the structure or function of the invention,
but instead as merely intended to highlight alternative or additional features that may or may
not be utilized in a particular embodiment of the invention. Likewise, a group of items linked
with the conjunction 'and' should not be read as requiring that each and every one of those
items be present in the grouping, but rather should be read as 'and/or' unless expressly stated
otherwise. Similarly, a group of items linked with the conjunction 'or' should not be read as
requiring mutual exclusivity among that group, but rather should be read as 'and/or' unless
expressly stated otherwise. In addition, as used in this application, the articles 'a' and 'an'
should be construed as referring to one or more than one (i.e., to at least one) of the
grammatical objects of the article. By way of example, 'an element' means one element or
more than one element.
[0275]      The presence in some instances of broadening words and phrases such as 'one or
more', 'at least', 'but not limited to', or other like phrases shall not be read to mean that the
narrower case is intended or required in instances where such broadening phrases may be
absent.
[0276]      All numbers expressing quantities of ingredients, reaction conditions, and so forth
used in the specification are to be understood as being modified in all instances by the term
'about.' Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the numerical parameters set forth
herein are approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be
obtained. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of
equivalents to the scope of any claims in any application claiming priority to the present
application, each numerical parameter should be construed in light of the number of significant
digits and ordinary rounding approaches.
[0277]      Furthermore, although the foregoing has been described in some detail by way of
illustrations and examples for purposes of clarity and understanding, it is apparent to those
skilled in the art that certain changes and modifications may be practiced. Therefore, the
description and examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the invention to the
specific embodiments and examples described herein, but rather to also cover all modification
and alternatives coming with the true scope and spirit of the invention.

                                                - 84
[0278]    This application is a divisional application of Australian patent application number
2013381897, whose specification as originally filed is hereby incorporated by reference in its
entirety.

                                                  - 85
Claims:
1.          An inflation fluid dispenser system for inflating an inflatable intragastric device,
comprising:
            a housing with an inner surface defining a channel having a proximal inlet configured
to be coupled to an inflation fluid container aperture and a distal outlet positioned at a distal
end of the inflation fluid dispenser, wherein the channel is configured to be in fluid connection
with a lumen of a catheter coupled to a proximal aperture of an inflatable instragastric device
having an inner cavity,
            a valve disposed in the channel and configured to transition between a closed state
and an open state,
            a valve control coupled to the valve and configured for manipulation by a user to
transition the valve between the closed state and the open state,
            a pressure gauge configured to measure pressure within the channel between the
valve and distal outlet, and
            a barometric pressure compensation valve configured to release a portion of the
inflation fluid from the inflation fluid container through a vent to achieve a target starting volume
within the inflation fluid container.
2.          The system of Claim 1, wherein the catheter is sized and shaped for placement
within a patient's esophagus.
3.          The system of Claim 1 or 2, wherein the inner cavity of the inflatable intragastric
device is defined by an ellipsoidal wall of the inflatable intragastric device.
4.          The system of any of Claims 1-3, wherein the inflatable intragastric device is at least
partially disposed in a dissolvable capsule configured for swallowing by a patient.
5.          The system of any of Claims 1-4, wherein the inflation fluid container is disposable.
6.          The system of any of Claims 1-5, wherein the inflation fluid is pure nitrogen.
7.          The system of any of Claims 1-6, wherein the target starting volume is selected to
achieve an internal volume of 90 to 300cc within the inflatable intragastric device upon
inflation.

                                                  - 86
8.          The system of any of Claims 1-7, wherein the barometric pressure compensation
valve receives inputs for a current temperature, a current altitude, a current atmospheric
pressure, or a combination thereof and releases a portion of the inflation fluid based on the
inputs.
9.          A system for inflating an inflatable intragastric device, comprising:
            an inflation fluid container having an inflation fluid container aperture and a reservoir
holding an inflation fluid;
            an inflation fluid dispenser securely coupled to the inflation fluid container and
comprising:
            a housing with an inner surface defining a channel having a proximal inlet coupled to
the inflation fluid container aperture and a distal outlet positioned at a distal end of the inflation
fluid dispenser,
            a valve disposed in the channel and configured to transition between a closed state
and an open state,
            a valve control coupled to the valve and configured for manipulation by a user to
transition the valve between the closed state and the open state,
            a pressure gauge configured to measure pressure within the channel between the
valve and distal outlet, and
            a barometric pressure compensation valve configured to release a portion of the
inflation fluid from the inflation fluid container through a vent to achieve a target starting volume
within the inflation fluid container;
            an inflatable intragastric device having an inner cavity and a proximal aperture; and
            a catheter coupled to the inflatable intragastric device, the catheter having a lumen
positioned between, and in fluid connection with, the channel of the inflation fluid dispenser
and the proximal aperture of the inflatable intragastric device.
10.         The system of Claim 9, wherein the catheter is sized and shaped for placement
within a patient's esophagus.
11.         The system of Claim 9 or 10, wherein the inner cavity of the inflatable intragastric
device is defined by an ellipsoidal wall of the inflatable intragastric device.
12.         The system of any of Claims 9-11, wherein the inflatable intragastric device is at
least partially disposed in a dissolvable capsule configured for swallowing by a patient.

                                                  - 87
13.        The system of any of Claims 9-12, wherein the inflation fluid dispenser is a durable
medical equipment product.
14.        The system of any of Claims 9-13, wherein the inflation fluid container is disposable.
15.        The system of any of Claims 9-14, wherein the inflation fluid is pure nitrogen.
16.        The system of any of Claims 9-15, wherein the target starting volume is selected to
achieve an internal volume of 90 to 300cc within the inflatable intragastric device upon
inflation.
17.        9.    The system of any of Claims 9-16, wherein the barometric pressure
compensation valve receives inputs for a current temperature, a current altitude, a current
atmospheric pressure, or a combination thereof and releases a portion of the inflation fluid
based on the inputs.
18.        A method of delivering an inflatable intragastric device into a patient's stomach,
comprising:
           providing an inflation system, comprising:
           an inflation fluid container having an inflation fluid container aperture and an internal
reservoir holding an inflation fluid,
           an inflation fluid dispenser having an inner surface defining a channel, the channel in
fluid communication with the reservoir of the inflation fluid container, and having a valve
disposed in the channel configured to transition between a closed position and an open
position,
           an inflatable intragastric device having an inner cavity and a proximal aperture, the
inflatable intragastric device at least partially encased by a capsule, and
           a catheter coupled to the inflatable intragastric device, the catheter having a lumen
positioned between, and in fluid connection with, the channel of the inflation fluid dispenser
and the proximal aperture of the inflatable intragastric device;
           with the valve in the closed position, delivering the inflatable intragastric device and
the capsule into the patient's mouth and towards a patient's stomach;
           monitoring a first pressure value of the inflatable intragastric device, wherein the first
pressure value provides feedback to an end user indicative of a current location of the
inflatable intragastric device;

                                                 - 88
           transitioning the valve to the open position when a first target pressure value is
reached, wherein transitioning the valve to the open position causes the inflation fluid to flow
from the reservoir of the inflation fluid container to the cavity of the inflatable intragastric
device;
            monitoring a second pressure value of the inflatable intragastric device, wherein the
second pressure value provides feedback to an end user indicative of a successful inflation or
a failed inflation; and
            removing the catheter from the patient.
19.        The method of Claim 18, further comprising separating the catheter from the
inflatable intragastric device.
20.        The method of Claim 18, wherein the proximal aperture of the inflatable intragastric
device self seals upon separation from the catheter.
21.         13. The method of any of Claims 18-19, wherein a first pressure value of 7.OkPa or
less indicates that the inflatable intragastric device is located in a patient's stomach and is
ready for inflation.
22.         14. The method of any of Claims 18-20, wherein a second pressure value between
8.3kPa and 17.2kPa indicates that inflation of the inflatable intragastric device was successful.
23.        A method of treating obesity, comprising:
           the method of Claim 18, and
            maintaining the inflatable intragastric device within the patient's stomach for a
treatment duration.
24.        The method of Claim 23, wherein the treatment duration is between 30 days and 90
days.
25.        The method of Claim 23 or 24, further comprising prescribing a prescription drug for
periodic administration throughout the treatment duration, the prescription drug selected from
the group consisting of a proton pump inhibitor, an antiemetic, and a spasmolytic agent.
26.        The method of any of Claims 23-25, further comprising removing the inflatable
intragastric device endoscopically when the treatment duration is complete.

                                                 - 89
27.        The method of any of Claims 23-26, further comprising delivering an additional
inflatable intragastric device into the patient's stomach during the treatment duration.

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       4/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      10/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      11/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       12/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      13/62
                       12/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      14/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       15/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       16/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       18/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     19/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      20/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     21/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      22/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      23/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      24/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      25/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      26/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       27/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   28/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                   29/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       30/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           31/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      32/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       33/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       34/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      35/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       36/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      37/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      38/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     39/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           40/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      41/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      42/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       43/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      44/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      45/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    46/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       47/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      48/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       49/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     50/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      51/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      52/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     53/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     54/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           55/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                      56/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       57/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           58/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       59/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       60/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       61/62

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           62/62

