A syringe assembly comprising a first cap and a second cap connected to the respective proximal end
and the distal end of a syringe barrel with their interior surface having a plurality of tortuous path rings to
ensure sterilisation of a fluid path inside a syringe barrel without the need for external packaging are
described. The first cap and the second cap are radiation and gas permeable. Also described are
methods of sterilising the fluid path of such syringe assembly

0
       NC
  ICIA
   3Dn
  rnN

      PACKAGELESS SYRINGE ASSEMBLY WITH STERILIZABLE FLUID PATH
                                           TECHNICAL FIELD
    [00011       The present invention relates to syringe assemblies, and more particularly to
    syringe assemblies in which the fluid path can be maintained in sterile condition without the
  5 presence of external packaging surrounding the syringe assembly.
                                             BACKGROUND
    [0002]       Clean or sterile articles particularly useful for medical applications are packaged
    to preserve their sterility. The packaging for these articles is intended to provide a barrier to
  0 prevent microorganisms from entering inside the packaging to contaminate its contents. In
    most instances, the packaging is opened immediately prior to using the sterile article, such as
    with a blister pack housing a syringe assembly, so as to minimize the time period in which
    the sterile article is exposed to unsterile conditions.
    [0003]       When the packaging used to protect sterile articles such as syringe assemblies is
  5 opened and the syringe assembly is removed, the packaging then needs to be discarded,
    leading to an increase in the amount of waste material produced in a hospital or other
    medical setting. Additionally, when packaging is used to contain each individual syringe
    assembly or a number of syringe assemblies, the cost of providing the packaging contributes
    significantly to the cost of each syringe assembly product.          It is desired that a syringe
 .0 assembly be manufactured at as low a cost as possible, thus reducing the price at which the
    syringe assembly can be sold.
    [00041       In addition to the costs associated with external packaging, packaging used to
    protect sterile articles tends to be bulky and, consequently, consumes more storage space per
    unit than is desirable.     Thus, the use of packaging to contain the syringe assembly adds
25  additional and unnecessary bulk to each individual syringe assembly. This additional bulk
    significantly detracts from valuable storage space in a hospital or other medical storage area.
    [0005]       It would be advantageous to provide a syringe assembly consisting of the usual
    components that does not provide packaging surrounding the syringe assembly, but is able to
    maintain a sterile fluid path prior to use.
30
                                                      1

                                             SUMMARY
    [00061      Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a packageless syringe
    assembly. Syringe assemblies according to a first aspect of the present invention include a
    plunger rod, a syringe barrel, and a first and second cap that permit sterilization of a portion
  5 of the fluid path by radiation or a gas. The features providing for sterilization of the fluid
    path allow the fluid path to remain sterile without the need for external packaging material
    surrounding the syringe assembly.
    [0007]      In one or more embodiments, the barrel includes a side wall having an outside
    surface and an inside surface defining a chamber for retaining fluid, an open proximal end,
  0 and a distal end including a distal wall, the chamber, distal end and proximal end defining a
    fluid path.
    [0008]      In one or more embodiments, the plunger rod includes a stopped disposed within
    the barrel.
    [0009]      In one or more embodiments, the first cap has a proximal end having a first
  5 segment that is radiation and gas permeable and is in flow communication with the fluid
    path and permitting sterilization of a portion of the fluid path by radiation or a gas, and an
    open distal end affixed to the proximal end of the barrel, wherein the first cap proximal end
    is optionally covered by a first permeable material. In one or more embodiments, the first
    permeable material comprises Tyverk@ or a medical grade material with a porosity of 8-400
 .0 seconds/100 mL. In one or more embodiments, the proximal end of the first cap includes a
    circumferential lip defining a recess containing a first permeable material.       In a specific
    embodiment, the first cap includes an interior surface having a plurality of tortuous path
    rings.
    [00101      In one or more embodiments, the second cap is affixed to the distal end of the
25  barrel, and the second cap has a proximal end and a closed distal end having a segment that
    is radiation and gas permeable and is in flow communication with the fluid path and
    permitting sterilization of a portion of the fluid path by radiation or a gas. In one or more
    embodiments, the second cap includes an interior surface having a plurality of tortuous path
    rings.
30  [0011]      In one or more embodiments, a collar is attached to the closed distal end of the
    second cap, the collar comprising a second permeable material that covers the closed distal
    end of the second cap.
    [00121      In one or more embodiments, a tamper-evident band covers a portion of at least
    one of the first and second cap.
                                                   2

    [00131      In one variant, the first or second cap can comprise a plurality of openings in
    flow communication with the fluid path and permit sterilization of a portion of the fluid path
    using radiation or a gas.     In one or more embodiments, the pluralities of openings are
    selected from holes or slots.
  5 [0014]      In one or more embodiments, the first cap comprises a plurality of openings on
    the first segment that are radiation and gas permeable and are in flow communication with
    the fluid path by radiation or a gas. In one or more embodiments, the pluralities of openings
    are selected from holes or slots.
    [0015]      In one or more embodiments, the second cap comprises a plurality of openings on
  0 the second segment of the second cap that are radiation and gas permeable ad in flow
    communication with the fluid path and permitting sterilization of a portion of the fluid path
    by radiation or a gas. In one or more embodiments, the pluralities of openings are selected
    from holes or slots.
    [0016]      In one or more embodiments, the syringe assembly is not surrounded by any
  5 external packaging. The external packaging can be a blister pack.
    [0017]      In one or more embodiments, the syringe assembly is sterile.
    [0018]      In one or more embodiments, the first cap is attached to the barrel using at least
    one heat stake. In one or more embodiments, the second cap is attached to the barrel using
    at least one heat stake.
 !0 [0019]      In one or more embodiments, the surface of the barrel has a matte finish. In one
    or more embodiments, the first cap has a matte finish. In one or more embodiments, the
    second cap has a matte finish. In one or more embodiments, the barrel further comprises a
    transparent label affixed to the outer surface of the side wall of the barrel.
    [0020]      In one or more embodiments, the syringe assembly is stored inside a Tyvek@ bag
25  with a plurality of other packageless syringe assemblies.
    [0021]      In one or more embodiments, each of the first and second caps is covered with a
    tamper-evident band.
    [0022]      A second aspect of the present invention is directed to a packageless syringe
    assembly including a fluid path that can be sterilized by gas or radiation comprising a barrel
30  a barrel including a side wall having an outside surface and an inside surface defining a
    chamber for retaining fluid, an open proximal end, and a distal end including a distal wall,
    the chamber, distal end and proximal end defining a fluid path; a plunger rod including a
    stopper disposed within the barrel; a first cap having a proximal end having a plurality of
    openings in flow communication with the fluid path and permitting sterilization of a portion
                                                   3

    of the fluid path by radiation or a gas and an open distal end affixed to the proximal end of
    the barrel, wherein the first cap proximal end is covered by a first permeable material; a
    second cap affixed to the distal end of the barrel, the second cap having a proximal end and a
    closed distal end with a plurality of openings in flow communication with the fluid path and
  5 permitting sterilization of a portion of the fluid path by radiation or a gas; a collar attached
    to the closed distal end of the second cap, the collar comprising a second permeable material
    that covers the openings on the closed distal end of the second cap; and a tamper-evident
    band covering a portion of at least one of the first and second cap.
    [0023]       A further aspect of the present invention pertains to a method of sterilizing the
  0 fluid path of a syringe assembly.        The method according to one embodiment comprises
    using radiation or a gas to sterilize the fluid path of a syringe assembly, wherein the syringe
    assembly includes a plunger rod, a syringe barrel, and a first and second cap that permit
    sterilization of a portion of the fluid path by radiation or a gas. The method allows the fluid
    path to remain sterile without the need for external packaging material surrounding the
  5 syringe assembly.
    [00241       In one or more embodiments, the barrel includes a side wall having an outside
    surface and an inside surface defining a chamber for retaining fluid, an open proximal end,
    and a distal end including a distal wall, the chamber, distal end and proximal end defining a
    fluid path.
 !0 [00251       In one or more embodiments, the plunger rod includes a stopped disposed within
    the barrel.
    [00261       In one or more embodiments, the first cap has a proximal end having a first
    segment that is radiation and gas permeable and is in flow communication with the fluid
    path and permitting sterilization of a portion of the fluid path by radiation or a gas, and an
25  open distal end affixed to the proximal end of the barrel, wherein the first cap proximal end
    is optionally covered by a first permeable material.
    [00271       In one or more embodiments, the second cap is affixed to the distal end of the
    barrel, and has a proximal end and a closed distal end having a second segment that is
    radiation and gas permeable and is in flow communication with the fluid path and permitting
30  sterilization of a portion of the fluid path by radiation or a gas.
    [0028]       In one or more embodiments, a collar is attached to the closed distal end of the
    second cap, the collar comprising a second permeable material that covers the closed distal
    end of the second cap; and a tamper-evident band covering a portion of at least one of the
    first and second cap.
                                                     4

    [00291      In one or more embodiments, the radiation is selected from E-beam and cobalt.
    [00301      In one or more embodiments, the gas is ethylene oxide.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
  5 [0031]      FIGURE 1 is a perspective view of an assembled syringe assembly according to
    an embodiment of the present invention;
    [00321      FIGURE 2 is an exploded perspective view of a syringe assembly according to an
    embodiment of the present invention;
    [0033]      FIGURE 3A is an end view of the first cap which attaches to the syringe
  0 assembly of FIG. 1;
    [0034]      FIGURE 3B is an end view of the first cap which attaches to the syringe
    assembly of FIG. 1;
    [0035]      FIGURE 3C is an end view of the first cap which attaches to the syringe
    assembly of FIG. 1;
  5 [0036]      FIGURE 4 is an end view of the first cap which attaches to the syringe assembly
    of FIG. 1;
    [0037]      FIGURE 5A is an end view of the second cap attaches to the syringe assembly of
    FIG.1;
    [0038]      FIGURE 5B is an end view of the second cap which attaches to the syringe
 !0 assembly of FIG. 1;
    [0039]
    [0040]      FIGURE 6 is a perspective view of the first cap which attaches to the syringe
    assembly of FIG. 1;
    [0041]      FIGURE 7 is a perspective view of the second cap which attaches to the syringe
25  assembly of FIG. 1; and
    [0042]      FIGURE 8 is a perspective view the barrel label according to an embodiment of
    the present invention.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
30  [0043]      Before describing several exemplary embodiments of the invention, it is to be
    understood that the invention is not limited to the details of construction or process steps set
    forth in the following description. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of
    being practiced or being carried out in various ways.
                                                   5

    [00441      With respect to terms used in this disclosure, the following definitions are
    provided.
    [0045]      Reference to "syringe assembly" includes syringes that are indicated for use with
    needles, nozzle, tubing, or for use in flush systems.
  5 [0046]      As used herein, the use of "a," "an," and "the" includes the singular and plural.
    [0047]      As used herein, the term "packageless" refers to syringe assemblies that are not
    surrounded by external packing material, including, but not limited to, flexible and rigid
    blister packs.
    [0048]      As used herein, the term "tortuous path" refers to a long known principle
  0 established by Louis Pasteur. In experiments, Pasteur fashioned glass flasks with various
    neck shapes. Each flask contained an enclosed sterile media. The necks on some flasks
    allowed microorganisms to fall on the contained media, which then became contaminated as
    evidenced by bacterial growth. The media in flasks with S-curved necks, or in those flasks
    which presented       a "tortuous    path"   for microorganisms,     remained   sterile.    The
  5 microorganisms were stopped at the openings to the curved necks, as well as at the curves in
    the necks.
    [0049]      As used herein, the term "tortuous path ring" refers to a ring, circle, loop, band,
    sphere, etc. that creates a barrier between the contaminated exterior and the sterile interior
    region of the syringe assembly by creating a extended pathway with a plurality of
 .0 interruptions that prevents the migration of microorganisms from the outside of the syringe
    assembly into the sterile fluid path.
    [00501      As used herein, the term "microorganism" refers to a microbe or organism that is
    unicellular or lives in a colony of cellular organisms. Microorganisms are very diverse; they
    include, but are not limited to bacteria, fungi, archaea, and protozoans.
25  [00511      As used herein, the terms "heat staking" and "heat stake" refer to a process of
    connecting two components by creating an interference fit between the two pieces. A plastic
    stud protruding from one component fits into the hole in a second component. The plastic
    stud is then deformed through the softening of the plastic via heat to form a head which
    mechanically locks the two components together.
30  [00521      As used herein, the term "permeable material" refers to any medical grade
    material such as a paper or fabric which is breathable and permeable to gas, but is not
    permeable to microorganisms. Medical grade packaging materials such as papers or woven
    materials have a typical porosity between 8 and 400 seconds/100 mL as defined by ASTM
    D-726 or ISO 5636. These materials must provide a microbial barrier as defined by ASTM
                                                     6

    F-1608 and/or F-2638.       These materials can be provided with an antimicrobial agent or
    disinfectant integral with or converted coating of the material. Medical grade materials can
    include, but are not limited to, medical grade papers and Tyvek@.         Typical suppliers can
    include, but are not limited to, Arjo-Wiggins, Billerud, Domtar, Neenah, Hansol, and
  5 Dupont.
    [0053]       Tyvek@ is a synthetic material consisting of flashspun high-density polyethylene
    fibers (i.e. a spunbound olefin fiber). The material is lightweight and strong, and is resistant
    to tearing but can be cut with scissors or a knife. Water vapor and other gases can pass
    through Tyvek@ as the material is highly breathable, but, at the same time, the material is
  0 impermeable to liquid water and microorganisms.
    [0054]       As used herein, the terms "antimicrobial agent" or "antimicrobial" refers to
    substances that kill or inhibit the growth of microorganisms such as bacteria, fungi, archaea,
    or protozoans. Antimicrobial agents either kill microbes, or prevent the growth of microbes.
    [0055]       As used herein, the term "disinfectant" refers to antimicrobial substances that are
  5 used on non-living objects or outside the body, e.g., on the skin.
    [0056]       Disinfectants or antimicrobial agents can include, but are not limited to, ethanol,
    2-propanol, butanol, methylparaben, ethylparaben, propylparaben, propyl gallate, butylated
    hydroxyanisole (BHA), butylated hydroxytoluene, t-butyl-hydroquinone, chloroxylenol,
    chlorohexidine, dichlorobenzyl alcohol, dehydroacetic acid, hexetidine, triclosan, hydrogen
 !0 peroxide, colloidal silver, and mixtures thereof.
    [0057]       As used herein, the term "sterilization" refers to a means of eliminating or killing
    microorganisms present on a surface, contained in a fluid, or in a compound such as
    biological culture media in order to achieve asepsis or a sterile microbial environment.
    Sterilization can be achieved by applying heat, chemicals, irradiation/radiation, high
25  pressure, filtration, or combinations thereof. Chemical sterilization includes sterilization
    with gases such as ethylene oxide, hydrogen peroxide gas, and ozone, liquids such as
    chlorine bleach, iodine, glutaraldehyde and formaldehyde, ortho-phthaladehyde (OPA),
    hydrogen peroxide, peracetic acid, sodium hydroxide, silver, and cobalt.               Radiation
    sterilization involves the use of radiation such as electron beams (E-beam), x-rays, gamma
30  rays, or subatomic particles.
    [0058]       As used herein, the terms "ethylene oxide" or "EO" or "EtO" refer to a gas that is
    commonly used to sterilize objects sensitive to temperatures greater than 65 'C and/or
    radiation, such as plastics, optics and electrics.     Ethylene oxide sterilization is generally
    carried out between 30 'C and 65 'C with relative humidity above 30% and a gas
                                                    7

    concentration between 200 and 1000 mg/L. Typical EtO exposure lasts for at least two or
    more hours with additional time allowed for pre and post conditioning. Ethylene oxide is
    highly effective at sterilization and penetrates well, moving through permeable papers, cloth,
    and some plastic films.       Ethylene oxide can kill all known microorganisms, including
  5 viruses, bacteria, and fungi. Ethylene oxide is highly flammable, toxic, and carcinogenic.
    [0059]      Ethylene oxide sterilization typically consists of a preconditioning phase, the
    actual sterilization run, and a period of post-sterilization aeration to remove toxic residues,
    such as ethylene oxide residues and by-products such as ethylene glycol and ethylene
    chlorohydrine. The two most significant ethylene oxide sterilization methods as: (1) the gas
  0 chamber method, and (2) the micro-dose method.             The gas chamber method involves
    flooding a large chamber with a combination of ethylene oxide and other gases used as
    dilutants. This method has drawbacks inherent to the use of large amounts of ethylene oxide
    being releases into a large space, including air contamination produced by CFCs and/or large
    amounts of ethylene oxide residuals, flammability and storage issues calling for special
  5 handling and storage, operator exposure risk and training costs.
    [00601      Gamma rays are very penetrating and are commonly used for sterilization of
    disposable medical equipment, such as syringes, needles, cannulas, and IVs.              Gamma
    radiation requires bulky shielding for the safety of the operators; it also requires storage of a
    radioisotope (usually Cobalt-60), which continuously emits gamma rays.
 .0 [00611      As used herein, the term "cobalt" or "cobalt-60" refers to cobalt-60, which is a
    synthetic radioactive isotope of cobalt; it is a hard, gray-blue metal and might appear as
    small metal disks or in a tube, enclosed at both ends, that holds the small disks. Cobalt-60
    can occur as a poweder if the solid sources have been ground or damaged. Cobalt-60 is used
    medically for radiation therapy as implants and as an external source of radiation exposure.
25  Cobalt-60 is also used industrially in leveling gauges and to x-ray welding seams and other
    structural elements to detect flaws. Additionally, cobalt-60 is used for food irradiation and
    other sterilization processes. Cobalt-60 decays by gamma radiation. External exposure to
    large sources of Cobalt-60 can cause skin burns, acute radiation sickness, or death
    [0062]      As used herein, the term "E-beam" refers to electron beam (E-beam) processing,
30  which is commonly used for medical sterilization. Electron beams use an on-off technology
    and provide a much higher dosing rate than gamma or x-rays. Due to the higher dose rate,
    less exposure time is needed, and, thereby, any potential degradation to polymer materials is
    reduced. A limitation is that electron beams are less penetrating than either gamma rays or
    x-rays.
                                                    8

    [00631      Provided are syringe assemblies that include a plunger rod and a syringe barrel
    and a first and second cap, that incorporate elements for sterilizing the fluid path without the
    need for external packaging surrounding the syringe assembly. The assembled syringe is
    shown in Figure 1, with the components and alternative embodiments of the present
  5 invention shown in Figures 2-8.       Referring to Figures 1 and 2, a packageless syringe
    assembly 20 according to the present invention includes a fluid path that can be sterilized by
    gas or radiation and generally comprises a barrel 21, including a side wall having an outside
    surface and an inside surface for defining a chamber for retaining fluid.         The barrel 21
    further includes an open proximal end 22 and a distal end 23, the chamber distal end 23 and
  0 proximal end 22 defining a fluid path.
    [0064]      A plunger rod 24 including a stopper 25 that is slidably positioned in fluid-tight
    engagement with the inside surface of the barrel for drawing fluid into and driving fluid out
    of the chamber by movement of the stopper 25 relative to the barrel 21, the plunger rod 24
    extending outwardly from the open proximal end 22 of the barrel.
  5 [0065]      Referring to Figure 3A, in one or more embodiments, a first cap 26 including a
    proximal end 27 having a first segment 28 that is radiation and gas permeable and is in flow
    communication with the fluid path permitting sterilization of a portion of the fluid path by
    radiation or a gas, an open distal end 29 affixed to the proximal end 22 of the barrel 21.
    [0066]      Referring to Figure 3B, in one or more embodiments, the first cap proximal end
 !0 27 is optionally covered by a first permeable material 30. In one or more embodiments, the
    first permeable material 30 comprises a medical grade paper with a porosity of 30-400
    seconds/100 mL or Tyvek@ with a porosity of 8-40 seconds/100 mL. Both materials are
    porous for breathability, but also provide a microbial barrier. A tamper evident band 37 may
    cover a portion of the open distal end 29 of the first cap 26. The proximal end 27 of the first
25  cap 26 may include a circumferential lip 40 defining a recess containing the first permeable
    material 30.    The packageless syringe assembly 20 can further comprise a plurality of
    openings 38B on the first segment 28 of the first cap 26 that are radiation and gas permeable
    and are in flow communication with the fluid path and permitting sterilization of a portion of
    the fluid path by radiation or a gas. In a specific embodiment, the pluralities of openings
30  38B comprise slots.
    [0067]      Referring to Figure 3C, in one or more embodiments, the first cap proximal end
    27 is optionally covered by a first permeable material 30. In one or more embodiments, the
    first permeable material 30 comprises a medical grade paper with a porosity of 30-400
    seconds/100 mL or Tyvek@ with a porosity of 8-40 seconds/100 mL. Both materials are
                                                   9

    porous for breathability, but also provide a microbial barrier. A tamper evident band 37 may
    cover a portion of the first cap.     The proximal end 27 of the first cap 26 may include a
    circumferential lip 40 defining a recess containing the first permeable material 30.        The
    packagless syringe assembly 20 can further comprise a plurality of openings 38C on the first
  5 segment 28 of the first cap 26 that are radiation and gas permeable and are in flow
    communication with the fluid path and permitting sterilization of a portion of the fluid path
    by radiation or a gas. In a specific embodiment, the plurality of openings 38C comprises
    holes.
    [0068]      Referring to Figure 4 the first cap 26 may include an interior surface having a
  0 plurality of tortuous path rings 41. The tortuous path rings 41 create a barrier between the
    contaminated exterior and the sterile interior region of the syringe assembly by creating a
    long pathway with a plurality of interruptions that prevents the migration of microorganisms
    from the outside of the syringe assembly into the sterile fluid path. The first cap 26 may
    also include a tamper evident band 37 covering a portion of the open distal end 29 of the
  5 first cap.
    [00691      Referring to Figures 5A and 5B, a second cap 31 affixed to the distal end 23 of
    the barrel 21, the second cap 31 having a proximal end 32 and a distal end 33 having a
    second segment 34 that is radiation and gas permeable and is in flow communication with
    the fluid path and permitting sterilization of a portion of the fluid path or a gas. The second
 .0 cap 31 may include an interior surface having a plurality of tortuous path rings 41.        The
    tortuous path rings 41 create a barrier between the contaminated exterior and the sterile
    interior region of the syringe assembly by creating a long pathway with a plurality of
    interruptions that prevents the migration of microorganisms from the outside of the syringe
    assembly into the sterile fluid path.
25  [00701      Optionally, a collar 35 is attached to the distal end 33 of the second cap 31, the
    collar 35 comprising a second permeable material 36 that covers the closed distal end 33 of
    the second cap 31; and a tamper evident band 37 covering a portion of at least one of the
    first cap 26 and the second cap 31.
    [0071]      The packageless syringe assembly 20 can further comprise a plurality of
30  openings 39 on the second segment 34 of the second cap 31 that are radiation and gas
    permeable and are in flow communication with the fluid path and permitting sterilization of
    a portion of the fluid path by radiation or a gas. In a specific embodiment, the pluralities of
    openings are selected from holes and slots.
                                                   10

    [00721       Referring to Figures 6 and 7, the first cap 26 may be attached to the barrel 21
    using at least one heat stake 43. The second cap 31 may be attached to the barrel 21 using at
    least one heat stake 43. The second cap 31 may be attached to the barrel 21 using at least
    one heat state 43.
  5 [0073]       In a specific embodiment, each of the first cap 26 and the second caps 31 is
    covered with a tamper-evident band 37. In one or more embodiments, the outside surface of
    the barrel 21 has a matte finish. The texture of the substrate on which the tamper evident
    band 37 will sit will influence how well the tamper evident band 37 adheres to the body of
    the syringe barrel 21 and to the first cap 26 and the second cap 31.        A matte finish will
  0 provide a better surface for adherence of the tamper evident band 37 than a smooth/shiny
    surface.
    [0074]       Referring to Figures 1 and 8, the barrel 21 may further comprise a transparent
    label 44 affixed to the outer surface of the side wall of the barrel 21.
    [0075]       The syringe assembly 20 can be sterile. The fluid path of the syringe assembly
  5 20 can be sterilized using radiation or a gas. Radiation can include, but is not limited to, E
    beam, or gamma radiation.        Gamma radiation involves the use of the radioactive isotope
    Cobalt-60. Gas sterilization can include, but is not limited to, ethylene oxide sterilization.
    [00761       In one or more embodiments, the packageless syringe assembly 20 is not
    surrounded by any external packaging material. External packaging material includes, but is
 .0 not limited to flexible and rigid blister packs.
    [00771       The syringe assembly 20 may be stored in a Tyvek@ bag with a plurality of other
    packageless syringe assemblies.
    [0078]       One or more embodiments of the present invention provides for a method of
    sterilizing the fluid path of a syringe assembly. The method comprising subjecting a syringe
25  assembly to radiation or a gas. The syringe assembly is as described in Figures 1-8. The
    syringe assembly can comprise a barrel including a side wall having an outside surface and
    an inside surface defining a chamber for retaining fluid, an open proximal end, and a distal
    end including a distal wall, the chamber, distal end and proximal end defining a fluid path; a
    plunger rod including a stopper disposed within the barrel; a first cap having a proximal end
30  having a first segment that is radiation and gas permeable and is in flow communication
    with the fluid path and permitting sterilization of a portion of the fluid path by radiation or a
    gas, and an open distal end affixed to the proximal end of the barrel, wherein the first cap
    proximal end is optionally covered by a first permeable material; a second cap affixed to the
    distal end of the barrel, the second cap having a proximal end and a closed distal end having
                                                     11

  a second segment that is radiation and gas permeable and is in flow communication with the
  fluid path and permitting sterilization of a portion of the fluid path by radiation or a gas;
  optionally, a collar attached to the closed distal end of the second cap, the collar comprising
  a second permeable material that covers the closed distal end of the second cap; and a
5 tamper-evident band covering a portion of at least one of the first and second cap.
  [0079]      In one or more embodiments, the sterilization of the syringe assembly is carried
  out using radiation. The radiation can be selected from E-beam and cobalt.
  [0080]      In one or more embodiments, the sterilization of the syringe assembly is carried
  out using gas sterilization. The gas can be ethylene oxide.
0 [00811      Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular
  embodiments, it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the
  principles and applications of the present invention.      It is therefore to be understood that
  numerous modifications may be made to the illustrative embodiments and that other
  arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the present
5 invention as disclosed.
                                                 12

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1. A packageless syringe assembly including a fluid path that can be sterilized by gas or
radiation comprising:
         a barrel including a side wall having an outside surface and an inside surface defining
a chamber for retaining fluid, an open proximal end, and a distal end including a distal wall,
the chamber, distal end and proximal end defining a fluid path;
         a plunger rod including a stopper disposed within the barrel;
         a first cap having a proximal end having a plurality of openings in flow communication
with the fluid path and permitting sterilization of a portion of the fluid path by radiation or a
gas;
         an interior surface having a plurality of tortuous path rings, and an open distal end
affixed to the proximal end of the barrel, wherein the proximal end of the first cap is covered
by a first permeable material;
         a second cap affixed to the distal end of the barrel, the second cap having a proximal
end, an interior surface having a plurality of tortuous path rings, and a closed distal end with a
plurality of openings in flow communication with the fluid path and permitting sterilization of
a portion of the fluid path by radiation or a gas;
         a tamper-evident band covering a portion of at least one of the first and second cap; and
         a collar attached to the closed distal end of the second cap, the collar comprising a
second permeable material that covers the openings on the closed distal end of the second cap.
2. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the syringe assembly is surrounded
by an external packaging material.
3. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 2, wherein the external packaging material is a
blister pack.
4. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of openings are holes.
5. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the plurality of openings are slots.
6. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the syringe assembly is sterile.
                                                 13

7. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the first permeable material has a
porosity of 8-400 seconds/100 mL.
8. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the proximal end of the first cap
includes a circumferential lip defining a recess containing the first permeable material.
9. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the first cap is attached to the barrel
using at least one heat stake.
10. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the second cap is attached to the
barrel using at least one heat stake.
11. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the outside surface of the barrel has
a matte finish.
12. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the barrel further comprises a
transparent label affixed to the outside surface of the side wall of the barrel.
13. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the radiation is selected from E
beam and cobalt.
14. The packageless syringe assembly of claim 1, wherein the gas is ethylene oxide.
                                                14

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701>
                           <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2704>
                           <U+260E>
                           <U+2706>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+271D>
                           <U+260E>
                           <U+2706>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+271E>
                           <U+2701>
                           <U+2702>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+271F>
                           <U+260E>
                           <U+2706>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2702>
                           <U+2701>
                           <U+2702>

