ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
The present invention provides aqueous polymer compositions containing one or more,
or, preferably, two or more markers selected from a      C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ether having a
formula Ph(R 2)m(OR 1 )n, wherein Ph is an aromatic ring containing group having from six
to nine carbon atoms, R1 is a   C1-C12  alkyl group, R2 is a C1-C12  alkyl group, m is an
integer of from 0 to 5, n is an integer of from 1 to 3, and (m +n) is an integer of from 1 to
6. The markers are readily detectable, such as by mass spectroscopy, upon solvent
extraction and separation from the aqueous polymer compositions, or from dried or
cured coatings, film or layers thereof.

NOVEL MARKERS FOR AQUEOUS COMPOSITIONS
[0001]       The present invention relates to alkyl aryl ether compounds useful in a
method for marking aqueous compositions, such as coating compositions for use in
traffic paint.
[0002]       Waterborne quick drying traffic paint is a popular and low cost method of
improving roadway safety. Government agencies responsible for roadways frequently
specify use of selected polymer grades at minimum levels in paints sold to them.
However, the same agencies struggle to confirm whether formulators have actually
provided the specified polymer grade in the required amounts. Complete analytical
take-apart is lengthy and expensive and is, thus, not practical. Some existing marker
systems for such paints are quick and simple, but use detection techniques such as
color or fluorescence, that do not work in all tints or which may suffer from interference
from other raw materials or naturally occurring products in the paints. Some known
detection methods require a developing solution, which add complexity. Several
detection methods are not quantitative or sensitive to small amounts of marked
materials; these can detect only a higher level presence but not quantity. Several
markers carry unwanted side effects such as toxicity and/or require a high dosage level.
Other markers do not have a broad range of temperature or pH stability and can be
removed from the marked compositions in process or in use. Hydrophilic markers, for
example, could be leached or washed from dry compositions or dried films limiting their
use in identifying dry samples, such as coatings or paints that have been applied and
cured. There remains a need for marker compounds for aqueous polymer compositions
which are difficult to remove by drying the compositions, as a result of weather or as a
result of repeated washing or wetting of the end use product, such as a coating or traffic
marking.
[0003]       World Intellectual Property Organization publication no. WO 2014081556 Al,
to Dow Chemical, discloses the use of alkyl phenyl ether (alkyl = C1 -C1 2 ) molecules as
fuel markers which are detectable in fuels, including being detectable to some extent
after distillation of the fuels.
[0004]       The present inventors have endeavored to find markers useful for marking
aqueous polymer compositions, such as coatings, without altering the appearance or
performance of the compositions while being detectable in the wet composition and
dried or coatings made therefrom.
STATEMENT OF INVENTION
[0005]       In accordance with the present invention, aqueous compositions, such as
compositions useful for making coatings, or, preferably, traffic markings, comprise (i)
one or more aqueous polymers, such as vinyl or acrylic emulsion polymers or
polyurethane dispersions and (ii)100 ppb to 10 ppm or, preferably, from 100 ppb to 2
ppm or, more preferably, from 200 ppb to 1.5 ppm of one or more, or, preferably, at
least two compounds selected from a C1 -C1 2 alkyl phenyl ether having a formula
Ph(R 2 )m(OR 1)n, wherein Ph is an aromatic ring containing group having from six to nine
carbon atoms, such as a phenyl group or a methylphenyl group, R1 is a C1 -C1 2 alkyl
group or, preferably, a C4 -C8 alkyl group, R2 is a C1 -C1 2 alkyl group, m is an integer of
                                               1

from 0 to 5, preferably, from 0 to 1, and n is an integer of from 1 to 3, and (m +n) is an
integer of from 1 to 6, or, preferably, from 1 to 3.
[0006]      In accordance with the present invention, the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, such as vinyl or acrylic emulsion
polymers or polyurethane dispersions have any of: (ii) two C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers in
a predefined or set ratio, which can be any ratio of 0.01:1.0 to 1.0:0.01, or, preferably,
from 0.1:1 to 1:0.1, or (iii) three C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers in a predefined or set ratio,
which can be any ratio such that the marker having the highest concentration is present
in no more than 100 times the concentration of the marker having the lowest
concentration, for example, from 0.01:0.01:1.0 to 1.0:0.01:1.0.
[0007]      In accordance with the present invention, the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, such as vinyl or acrylic emulsion
polymers, polyurethane dispersions, or aqueous solution polymers, such as polyamines,
polymeric polyacids or alkali soluble polymers, and (ii) the one or more C1-C12 alkyl
phenyl ethers have a pH of from 3 to 12 or, preferably, from 7 to 11.
[0008]      In accordance with the present invention, in the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and (ii) the one or more C1-C12 alkyl
phenyl ethers, the (i) one or more aqueous polymer is preferably a vinyl or acrylic
emulsion polymer, such as an acrylic emulsion polymer, or, more preferably, an acrylic
emulsion polymer comprising butyl acrylate in polymerized form.
[0009]      In accordance with the present invention, in the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and (ii) the one or more C1-C12 alkyl
phenyl ethers have, the (i) one or more aqueous polymer is a vinyl or acrylic emulsion
polymer which is an anionically stabilized emulsion polymer and, wherein the
composition further comprises one or more polyamine and one or more volatile base,
such as ammonia, an alkyl amine, such as ethyl amine amine alcohols, or, preferably,
ammonia.
[0010]      In accordance with the present invention, in the aqueous compositions
comprising (ii) the one or more C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers, one or more anionically
stabilized emulsion polymer as the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and one or more
polyamine and one or more volatile base, the amount of the one or more polyamine
ranges from 0.1 to 2 wt.% or, preferably, from 0.25 to 1.5 wt.% solids based on total
polymer solids.
[0011]      In accordance with the present invention, the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and (ii) the one or more C1-C12 alkyl
phenyl ethers further comprise one or more pigments, extenders, and/or fillers. The one
or more pigments, extenders and/or fillers preferably comprise, a pigment, such as a
white or opacifier pigment, preferably, titanium dioxide, combined with one or more
fillers and/or extenders, preferably calcium carbonate, calcium oxide, silica, silicates,
and combinations thereof. As used herein, the term "filler" and the term "extender" are
used interchangeably.
                                                2

[0012]      In accordance with the present invention, the aqueous compositions
comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and (ii) the one or more C1-C12 alkyl
phenyl ethers further comprise one or more high boiling coalescent chosen from diacid
esters, phosphate esters, isobutyrate esters, alkyl esters of fatty acids, fatty ethers, fatty
glycerides, fatty acid amides, alkoxylates of fatty acids, addition (co)polymer
coalescents, ethylene and propylene glycol ethers having a normal boiling point of 150
to 3000C, and mixtures thereof, preferably, isobutyrate esters. The amount of the
coalescent may range from 4.0 wt.% to 30 wt.%, based on total polymer solids or,
preferably, from 5 to 20 wt.%.
[0013]      In another aspect of the present invention, methods of detecting a marker of
(ii) one or more or, preferably, two or more, C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers in an aqueous
composition of (i) one or more aqueous polymers, such as vinyl or acrylic emulsion
polymers, polyurethane dispersions, aqueous solution polymers, such as polyamines,
polymeric polyacids or alkali soluble polymers, or a dried or cured film, coating or layer
formed therefrom, which methods comprise: extracting the one or more C1-C12 alkyl
phenyl ethers from the aqueous composition or the dried or cured film, coating or layer
formed therefrom, using a solvent, such as xylene or toluene, to form a marker extract,
separating from the marker extract the (ii) one or more C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers by
chromatographic separation, such as by gas chromatography (GC) or liquid
chromatography (LC), and detecting the (ii) one or more or, preferably, two or more C1
C12 alkyl phenyl ethers in the marker extract, such as by mass spectroscopy (MS).
[0014]      In the methods of the present invention, the extraction of the dried or cured
film, coating or layer formed from the aqueous composition when the dried or cured film,
coating or layer was formed on a substrate comprises separating or removing the film
coating or layer on a substrate from the substrate, such as by scraping the film, coating
or layer or with a wire brush, followed by grinding or milling the resulting solids, and then
extracting to form the marker extract and detecting the marker.
[0015]      In the methods of the present invention, the extraction of the dried or cured
film, or layer formed from the aqueous composition when the dried or cured film, or
layer is freestanding comprises grinding or milling the dried or cured film coating or layer
solids, and then extracting to form the marker extract and detecting the marker.
[0016]      Unless otherwise indicated, conditions of temperature and pressure are room
temperature and standard pressure, also referred to herein as "ambient conditions".
[0017]      In the instant specification, percentages are weight percentages (wt.%) and
temperatures are in *C, unless specified otherwise. All boiling points mentioned herein
are measured at atmospheric pressure (760 mm/Hg). Concentrations are expressed
either in parts per million ("ppm") or parts per billion ("ppb") calculated on a
weight/weight basis, or on a weight/volume basis (mg/L); preferably on a weight/volume
basis.
[0018]      The singular forms "a," "an," and "the" include plural referents unless the context
clearly dictates otherwise.
                                               3

[0019]     All phrases comprising parentheses denote either or both of the included
parenthetical matter and its absence. For example, the phrase "(meth)acrylate"
includes, in the alternative, acrylate and methacrylate.
[0020]     As used herein, the term "acid monomer or anionic monomer" means
ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer in either the acid or anionic form
(COO-).
[0021]     As used herein, the term "alkali soluble polymer" means an aqueous polymer
which is soluble at a pH of from 8 to 14 such as acrylic and vinyl polymers having from
10 to 50 wt.%, based on the total weight of monomers used to make the polymer, of an
ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid or its salt.
[0022]     As used herein, the term "alkyl" group is a substituted or unsubstituted
saturated hydrocarbyl group having from one to twenty-two carbon atoms in a linear,
branched or cyclic arrangement. Substitution on alkyl groups of one or more OH or
alkoxy groups is permitted; other groups may be permitted when specified elsewhere
herein. Preferably, alkyl groups are unsubstituted. Preferably, alkyl groups are linear or
branched.
[0023]     As used herein, the term "alkenyl" group is an alkyl group having at least one
carbon-carbon double bond. Preferably, alkenyl groups have one or two carbon-carbon
double bonds, preferably one.
[0024]     As used herein, the term "aqueous" means water or water mixed with up to 16
wt.%, or up to 6 wt.%, or, preferably, up to 0.5 wt.% of a water miscible solvent which is
volatile under ambient conditions, such as a lower alkanol.
[0025]     As used herein, the term "capillary column" is a column suitable for gas
chromatography having an inner diameter from 75 to 750 pm, preferably, from 100 to
550 pm, such as from 150 to 350 pm and a length of 5 to 100 m, preferably 7 to 60 m.
[0026]     As used herein, unless otherwise indicated, the term "emulsion polymer" refers to
a polymer made by aqueous emulsion polymerization.
[0027]     As used herein, the term "ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer"
refers to acrylic acid, methacrylic acid, beta-acryloxypropionic acid, ethacrylic acid, a
chloroacrylic acid, a-vinylacrylic acid, crotonic acid, a-phenylacrylic acid, cinnamic acid,
chlorocinnamic acid, p-styrylacrylic acid, maleic acid, itaconic acid, citraconic acid, and
salts thereof.
[0028]     As used herein, the term "(meth)acrylate" means acrylate, methacrylate, and
mixtures thereof and the term "(meth)acrylic" used herein means acrylic, methacrylic, and
mixtures thereof.
[0029]     As used herein, the term "phenyl" group is a substituent derived from phenol
or another aromatic hydrocarbon compound. A phenyl group has a total of six ring
atoms, unless otherwise specified, and has one ring.
                                               4

[0030]      As used herein, the term "polymeric polyacid" refers to polymers and
copolymers of ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomers or salts thereof, the
copolymers comprising, in polymerized form, at least 80 wt.% or, preferably, at least 90
wt.% of the ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer or salt, based on the
total weight of monomers used to make the polymer.
[0031]      As used herein, the term "total polymer solids" or "polymer solids" means the
total solids of the one or more vinyl or acrylic emulsion polymers and the polyurethanes
or polyurethane prepolymers in the aqueous compositions.
[0032]      As used herein, the term "road" includes any indoor or outdoor solid surface that
is or may be constantly or intermittently traveled on by pedestrians, moving vehicles,
tractors, or aircraft. Some non-limiting examples of a "road" include highways, streets,
driveways, sidewalks, runways, taxiing areas, tarmac areas, and parking lots.
[0033]      As used herein, the phrase "wt.%" stands for weight percent.
[0034]      The present invention provides a way for users, makers and sellers of
aqueous polymer compositions, for example, traffic paint, and coatings, to quickly and
with a high level of sensitivity detect the source and identity of polymer compositions
they buy, resell, use or find. The user, makers and sellers can verify the source and
identity of aqueous polymer compositions regardless of when or how they obtain them.
For government agencies and others, the present invention enables quality verification.
For other makers, users and sellers, the present invention provides a way to determine
what aqueous polymer compositions third parties and customers are using. Detection
can be performed using, for example, GC/MS. The compositions that can be effectively
tested include both aqueous and dry or cured compositions, such as already applied
paints or coatings or already formed films, layers or moldings. the low concentrations of
markers (down to 100 ppb) enable discrete marking of the aqueous polymer
compositions without introducing odor or otherwise impacting the performance or
appearance of final products, such as coatings, made with those compositions.
[0035]      The present invention provides a method for marking an aqueous polymer
composition, the method comprising adding (ii) the one or more or, preferably, one or
more C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ether compounds to an aqueous polymer composition.
Suitable aqueous polymer compositions can be, for example binders, coating additives,
polymer dispersions (i.e. HYPOD etc.), and other aqueous emulsion or dispersion
polymers.
[0036]      The (ii) C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ether compounds can simply be added to an
aqueous polymer composition while it is being formed, such as in polymerization, or
afterword, as in formulation.
[0037]      The aqueous compositions comprising the (i) one or more aqueous polymers,
and (ii) the one or more C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers have aqueous composition may
optionally comprise conventional additives.
[0038]      The one or more (ii) C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers may be placed in the aqueous
polymer composition directly, or alternatively, placed in an additives package containing
                                               5

other materials, e.g. pigments, fillers or colorants, dispersants, surfactants, defoamants,
rheology modifiers, etc., and the additives package is added to the aqueous polymer
composition.
[0039]      In the aqueous polymer compositions of the present invention for use in
making traffic markings, suitable concentrations of fillers, extenders and/or pigments
may range from 50 to 90 wt.% or, preferably, from 60 to 85 wt.%, of total solids of
polymer, coalescent, filler, extender and pigment.
[0040]      The aqueous polymer compositions of the present invention may not
comprise fillers, extenders and/or pigments and may be a polymeric binder, such as an
emulsion polymer or polyurethane dispersion, for use in clearcoats and custom
formulations.
[0041]      Suitable vinyl or acrylic polymers for use in the present invention may be
prepared from a wide range of suitable addition polymerizable ethylenically unsaturated
monomers, such as, for example, nonionic ethylenically unsaturated monomers, including
arylenes, such as styrene, vinyl toluene, and a-methyl styrene; butadiene; olefins; vinyl
esters; vinyl halides; vinylidene chloride; (meth)acrylonitrile; C-C 4 oalkyl esters of
(meth)acrylic acid; for example, methyl (meth)acrylate, ethyl (meth)acrylate, n-butyl
(meth)acrylate, 2-ethylhexyl (meth)acrylate, and other (meth)acrylates.
[0042]      The vinyl or acrylic polymers of the present invention may be formed by
conventional emulsion polymerization of addition polymerizable monomers, such as in the
presence of a thermal or redox initiator and one or more surfactants.
[0043]      The anionically stabilized emulsion polymers of the present invention are
emulsion polymers which comprise one or more anionic surfactants or which comprise, in
copolymerized form, an ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer or salt thereof,
for example, acrylic acid, or both.
[0044]      To limit water sensitivity the anionically stabilized emulsion polymers of the
present invention comprise 18 wt.% or less, or, preferably, 4 wt.% or less, or, preferably, 2
wt.% or less of the ethylenically unsaturated carboxylic acid monomer or salt in
copolymerized form, based on the total weight of all monomers .
[0045]      To limit water sensitivity the anionically stabilized emulsion polymers of the
present invention may comprise 4 wt.% or less or, preferably, 2 wt.% or less of the one or
more anionic surfactants.
[0046]      The compounds (ii) of this invention may be prepared by methods known in the
art, e.g., allowing an aryloxide salt to react with an alkyl halide to form an aryl alkyl ether.
[0047]      The (ii) the one or more C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ether markers of the present
invention are UV and heat stable, and provide little or no volatility in ambient use
conditions, and at temperatures of up to 80 'C at atmospheric pressure.
[0048]      In using (ii) the one or more C-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers of the present
invention as markers, preferably the minimum amount of each compound added to an
                                                6

aqueous polymer composition to be marked is at least 100 ppb, or, preferably at least
1000 ppb, or, preferably, at least 2000 ppb. Preferably, the maximum amount of each
marker is 10 ppm, or, preferably 5 ppm or less, or, more preferably 2 ppm or less.
Preferably, the maximum total amount of marker compounds is 20 ppm, or, preferably,
10 ppm, or, more preferably 2 ppm.
[0049]      Preferably, the (ii) the one or more C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers of the present
invention are not detectible by visual means in the marked aqueous polymer
composition, i.e., it is not possible to determine by unaided visual observation of color or
other characteristics that it contains a marker compound. Preferably, a marker
compound is one that does not occur normally in the aqueous polymer composition to
which it is added, either as a constituent of the polymer itself, or as an additive used
therein.
[0050]      Preferably, more than one marker compound is present. Use of multiple
marker compounds facilitates incorporation into the aqueous polymer composition of
coded information that may be used to identify the origin and other characteristics of the
aqueous polymer composition. The code comprises the identities and relative amounts,
e.g., fixed integer ratios, of the marker compounds. One, two, three or more marker
compounds may be used to form the code. Marker compounds according to the
present invention may be combined with other markers.
[0051]      In accordance with the compositions of the present invention, two or more of
(ii) the C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ether markers could be used at various predetermined ratios.
Combinations of markers can be used as digital marking systems, with the ratios of
amounts forming a code for the marked product. Additional compounds useful as
markers would be desirable to maximize the available codes. Thus, the present
invention could be used broadly to provide end-users or regulators verification that a
given aqueous polymer composition was used in a given project.
[0052]      Preferably, the marker compounds are detected by at least partially
separating them from constituents of the aqueous polymer composition using a
chromatographic technique, e.g., gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, thin
layer chromatography, paper chromatography, adsorption chromatography, affinity
chromatography, capillary electrophoresis, ion exchange and molecular exclusion
chromatography. Chromatography is followed by at least one of: (i) mass spectral
analysis, and (ii) spectral analysis, such as UV spectrophotometry. Identities of the
marker compounds preferably are determined by mass spectral analysis. Preferably,
the compounds are at least partially separated from the marked liquid using two
dimensional gas chromatography, preferably with different columns in the two GC
separations. Preferably, mass spectral analysis is used to detect the marker
compounds in the aqueous polymer composition without performing any separation.
Alternatively, marker compounds may be concentrated prior to analysis, e.g., by drying
the aqueous polymer composition.
[0053]      Further, and more preferably, a gas chromatographic method for detecting a
marker compound in an aqueous polymer composition comprises: (a) extracting the
marker from an aqueous polymer composition by solvent extraction with an organic
solvent, preferably, xylene, (b) injecting a sample of the extract into a first capillary
                                               7

column which is an open tubular column, preferably, coated with a polysiloxane
stationary phase, and allowing the sample to flow through the first capillary column to
produce a first effluent stream; (b) allowing the first effluent stream to pass through a
detector and identifying a retention time range in the first effluent stream which includes
a retention time of the marker compound; (c) introducing only a portion of the first
effluent stream which is within the retention time range into a second capillary column
which is an open tubular column coated with either (i) an ionic sorbent or (ii) a
polyethylene glycol, and allowing said portion to flow through the second capillary
column to produce a second effluent stream; and (d) allowing the second effluent
stream to pass through a detector.
[0054]      Suitable detectors can be any one capable of detecting the marker; preferably
a flame ionization detector (FID), atomic emission detector, pulsed discharge helium
ionization detector, dielectric barrier detector, thermal conductivity detector, helium
ionization detector, mass selective detector (e.g., a mass spectrometer (MS));
preferably a FID or MS.
[0055]      Preferably, when a mass spectrometer is used as a detector the column
diameter is no greater than 400 pm, preferably no greater than 350 pm, or, preferably
no greater than 330 pm. Preferably, capillary columns are made from polyimide-coated
fused silica glass or passivated metal.
[0056]      Preferably, the amount of aqueous polymer composition sample injected into
the gas chromatograph is from 0.2 to 5 pl, preferably from 0.5 to 3 pl, preferably from
0.8 to 2 pl. Preferably the injection is split such that the ratio of total injection to the
amount sent to the first column is from 25:1 to 15:1, preferably about 20:1. Preferably,
the oven temperature for the first column initially is from 25 to 200 0C, preferably from
50 to 150 0C, preferably from 40 to 100 'C and then increases to a temperature from
300 to 450 C, preferably from 325 to 425 0C, preferably from 350 to 400 OC.
Preferably, the oven temperature for the second column follows the same profile as that
for the first column. Preferably, the carrier gas (preferably helium) flow rate is from 0.2
to 5 mL/min, preferably from 0.5 to 4 mL/min, preferably from 0.5 to 2 mL/min. Those
skilled in the art will appreciate that the parameters mentioned above are interrelated
and are not critical individually, but they can be adjusted together to achieve optimum
separation of the desired compounds.
[0057]      Preferably, the ionic sorbent is an inorganic salt or a mixture of inorganic
salts; preferably sodium or potassium or barium salts or a mixture thereof; preferably
sodium sulfate, potassium sulfate, barium sulfate, chlorides of sodium, potassium or
barium, or a mixture thereof. Especially preferred ionic sorbents include sodium sulfate,
potassium sulfate, barium chloride, barium sulfate or a mixture thereof, preferably
barium sulfate or potassium sulfate.
[0058]      Preferably, the polyethylene glycol has a number average molecular weight
from 10,000 to 30,000, preferably from 15,000 to 25,000. An especially preferred
polyethylene glycol is CARBOWAX 20M. Preferably, when a mass spectrometer is
used as a detector, the second column is a polyethylene glycol column.
                                                8

[0059]      EXAMPLES:
[0060]      Preparation of an aqueous polymer composition in a butyl phenyl ether (BPE)
marked formulation:
[0061]      BPE was dissolved in TexanolITM isobutyrate ether high boiling point
plasticizer (Eastman Chemical, Kingsport, TN) at a1000 ppm concentration. The
marker solution was added to an acrylic emulsion polymer binder (anionically stabilized
BA/MMA emulsion copolymer, 50.5 wt.% solids) to yield a marker concentration of 1
ppm, based on the total aqueous composition. The binder was split and half was
placed in an oven for 10 days at 60 0C to heat age the binder (Example 2) and the other
half was stored at room temperature (Example 1).
[0062]      Extraction conditions:
[0063]      Both heat aged and control formulations were extracted using xylene. 1 mL of
marked formulation was mixed with 10 mL of xylene in a 20-mL vial. The solution was
shaken for 30 min. 1.5 mL of the solvent phase was then transferred to a centrifuge vial
and centrifuged at 35000 rpm for 20 min. The supernatant was transferred to an
autosampler vial for GC/MS analysis.
[0064]      GC/MS conditions: A heart-cutting two-dimension GC system with mass
selective detector was used in examples, as described in Table 1, below.
[0065]      Table 1: GC/MS Conditions
         Instrument:      Agilent 7890B GC with 5977A MSD with Extractor Electron
                          Impact ionization source
         Column:          First dimension: Agilent DB-17HT, 15 m x 0.25 mm, 0.15 pm
                          film (P/N 122-1811)
                          Second dimension: Agilent VF-WAXms, 30 m x 0.25 mm, 1.0
                          pm film (P/N CP9206)
                          Restrictor: Agilent 0.64 m x 0.1 mm fused silica (P/N 160-2635
                          5) or equivalent
         Injector:        Injection volume: 1 pL
                          Solvent wash: 6 times pre-injection and 6 times post-injection
                          with toluene
                          Sample washes: 3 times
                          Sample pump: 3 times
         Inlet:           Liner: Agilent Ultra-inertm Split liner (P/N 5190-2295) or
                          equivalent
                          Temperature: 2500C
                          Split ratio: 100:1
                          Carrier gas: helium
         Flow             First dimension: 1.0 mL/min for 5.0 min, ramp to -1.0 mL/min at
         Programming:     a rate of 99 mL/min, hold at -1.0 mL/min for 10.1 min (back
                          flush step)
                          Second dimension: 2.5 mL/min constant flow
         Oven             1000C (0.5 min), 100 C/min to 1800C, then 300C/min to 2600C (4
                                               9

         Temperature       min).
         Programming:      Total run time: 15.167 min
         FID               Temperature: 2600C
         Parameters:       Air flow: 400 mL/min
                           H2 flow: 40 mL/min
                           Makeup (N2 ) flow: 25 mL/min
         Heart-cutting     Valve on at 4.43 min
         event:            Valve off at 4.56 min
         MSD               Transfer line temperature: 2600C
         Parameters:       El source temperature: 2500C
                           Quad temperature: 2000C
                           Gain factor: 1.0
                           SIM ion: m/z 94 (100 ms dwell time) and 150 (100 ms dwell
                           time). Plot m/z 94 only.
        1.      Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, CA.
[0066]      Three extraction solvents including methanol, xylene and hexane were
explored at different solvent-to-sample ratios using as a substrate the composition of
Example 1. With xylene extraction, nearly 100% of marked BPE was detected, as
shown in Table 2, below. Other solvents also yielded acceptable results, which shows
the flexibility of the marker molecule and detection method. As shown in Table 3,
below, no difference was detected in the room temperature and heat aged samples,
demonstrating good stability of the marker and good reproducibility of the method.
[0067]      Table 2: Measured BPE concentration from Aqueous Polymer Compositions
of Example 1 marked with 1 ppm BPE using various extraction solvents
             Extraction          Solvent to          Extraction efficiency at
             solvent            emulsion ratio       1 ppm
             MeOH                10                  123%
             MeOH               5                    113%
             Xylene              10                  104%
             Xylene              5                   99%
             Hexane              10                  138%
[0068]      Table 3: Measured BPE concentration from room temperature and heat aqed
binder formulation marked with 1 ppm BPE using xylene extraction
                                               10

[0069]    Markers in the aqueous polymer compositions of Example 1 and Example 2
(heat aged) were extracted and detected as shown in Table 3, below.
                                            Measured
           Storage         Added BPE        BPE Conc.
           condition       Conc. (ppm)      (ppm)             Recovery
           Room temp       1                1.040             104.0%
           Heat aged       1                1.026             102.6%
[0070]    As shown in Table 3, above, the marker was readily detected in both the
Example 1 aqueous polymer composition and in the heat aged aqueous polymer
composition of Example 2. Accordingly, the marker C1C12 alkyl phenyl ethers of the
present invention provide desirable stability for use in aqueous polymer compositions so
they can be tested after extended periods of time.
                                             11

    We Claim:
1.      An aqueous composition comprising (i) one or more aqueous polymers, and (ii)
from 100 ppb to 10 ppm of one or more compounds selected from a C1-C12 alkyl phenyl
ether having a formula Ph(R 2)m(OR 1)n, wherein Ph is an aromatic ring containing group
having from six to nine carbon atoms, R1 is a C1-C12 alkyl group, R2 is a C1-C12 alkyl
group, m is an integer of from 0 to 5, n is an integer of from 1 to 3, and (m +n) is an
integer of from 1 to 6.
2.      The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the (i) one or more aqueous
polymers is chosen from vinyl or acrylic emulsion polymers or polyurethane dispersions.
3.      The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the amount of the (ii) one or
more compounds selected from a C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ether having a formula
Ph(R 2 )m(OR 1)n ranges from 100 ppb to 2 ppm.
4.      The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the composition comprises (ii)
two compounds selected from a C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ether having a formula
Ph(R 2)m(OR 1 )n in a predefined ratio.
5.      The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the (ii) one or
more compounds selected from a C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ether has a formula
Ph(R 2 )m(OR 1 )n,wherein R1 is a C4 to C8 alkyl group.
6.      The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the (ii) one or
more compounds selected from a C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ether has a formula
Ph(R 2)m(OR')n, wherein Ph is a phenyl group.
7.      The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein at least one of the (ii) one or
more compounds selected from a C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ether has a formula
Ph(R 2 )m(OR)n, wherein (m +n) is an integer of from 1 to 3.
                                              12

8.      The composition as claimed in claim 1, having a pH of from 3 to 12.
9.      The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein the (i) one or more aqueous
polymer is a vinyl or acrylic emulsion polymer which is an anionically stabilized emulsion
polymer and, wherein the composition further comprises one or more polyamine and
one or more volatile base.
10.     A method of detecting a marker of (ii) one or more C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers in
an aqueous composition of (i) one or more aqueous polymers, or a dried or cured film,
coating or layer formed therefrom, the method comprising:
    extracting the one or more C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers from the aqueous composition
or the dried or cured film, coating or layer formed therefrom using a solvent to form a
marker extract;
    separating from the marker extract the (ii) one or more C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers by
chromatographic separation; and,
    detecting the (ii) one or more C1-C12 alkyl phenyl ethers in the marker extract.
                                              13

