                                               39
                  SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MAPPING RESULTS
                     FROM SPORTING EVENTS TO GAME INPUTS
  ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
           A method of mapping sporting event results to inputs for a game is provided.
  One or more event results of a particular sporting event having a particular number of
  participants are received, and a set of rules is selected from a plurality of sets of rules
5 based on the particular number of participants in the particular sporting event. For
  each of a plurality of bets, one or more inputs for a game are determined by applying
  the selected set of rules to the received one or more event results of the particular
  sporting event. The result of the game is then determined for each of the plurality of
  bets based at least on the one or more determined inputs for that bet.
  DAL01:844535.1

                                                       1'/7
              CDF->>                                                                   !:U'E
               -~         F-                      <       LtlF     F-j
        CD UA        -                 0- 000 CL0L                              Z         :
0    -0                    2                  0          F-                             r
     ZF    F 0                                     --        0       0        M
U)zL     C)L       CD                                    CEL    0T      CD<C-           z    c
    LU     CfD                                    LU      U)                      U/3
                                                                       F-dCD
  o      2                       -7-2-               -           F
                  IC)U
                    ZIZC                                                       U
                                                             F-            CC        L         U
                          <LU                                            -u
                       (0                                                         U       L
                    C~l                                                  Lot                   C-
                       Cl                                                                         c
                                                                            Z                     LO
          In
                   1-r       1-L
                                                   /DJ]
                                                     I-

                                               I
                    SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MAPPING RESULTS
                      FROM SPORTING EVENTS TO GAME INPUTS
   TECHNICAL FIELD OF THE INVENTION
           This invention relates in general to gaming systems and methods and, more
   particularly, to a system and method for mapping results from sporting events to game
   inputs.
 5
   BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           Wagering in casinos, online, at racetracks, and at off-track betting ("OTB")
   parlors is a large and growing industry throughout the world. Various types of betting
   products and systems exist that facilitate betting on the outcome of a particular game.
10 For example, a patron in a casino or a person using an online betting service may bet
   on a hand of blackjack, a spin on a slot machine, a roll of the dice, etc. The result of
   each bet, such as whether the bet is a winning bet, a losing bet, or a "push" (i.e., a tie)
   is determined based on a number of inputs. For example, inputs for a blackjack game
   include the cards dealt to each player and the dealer, inputs for a craps game include
15 each roll of the dice, and inputs for a roulette game include the each spin of the
   roulette wheel.      Such inputs are typically determined by chance or by some
   combination of skill and chance. For example, in a roulette game, each spin of the
   roulette wheel is determined by chance.      However, in a blackjack game, the cards
   dealt to each player are determined by a combination of skill and chance: the player
20 does not know which cards will be dealt from the deck but has some control over how
   many cards he wishes to draw for his hand.
           In certain games, such as blackjack, craps and roulette, the payout for each
   winning bet is determined based on odds predetermined by the casino or online
   betting service provider.   For example, in roulette, a winning bet on red or black
25 typically pays 1-1 odds to the bettor, while a winning bet on a single number typically
   pays 35-1 odds to the bettor. For other types of betting, such as betting on horse races
   or dog races for example, the payout for each winning bet may be determined in a
   pari-mutuel manner. In a pari-mutuel betting system, all bets regarding a particular
   event are aggregated, a commission (or "take-out") is taken by the track, and the
30 remainder is distributed among the winning bettors in proportion to the amount of

                                               2
   each winning bet. Pari-mutuel betting systems are commonly used in North America
   (and other various places throughout the world) for betting on horse races.
           Gambling      machines,  Gaming    machines,    or  amusement    machines,   or
   amusement-with-prizes machines, are well known. They range from slot machines,
 5 "fruit machines", and other large, immobile, machines housed in a housing or carcass,
   to hand-held computer game machines, such as GAMEBOYTM machines.                  Other
   known betting, gaming and amusement apparatus include Internet gaming systems.
   Making and selling, and otherwise providing, gaming, gambling, and betting
   machines is a large industry.     Similarly, making, selling and otherwise providing
10 systems for betting, including distributed network systems, is a known industry with
   known companies involved in it.
           It is also known that players of games, or people who bet on gambling systems
   or machines, can be interested in new experiences.         The very novelty of a new
   machine, or new system bet and the functionality/game provided by the system or
15 machine, can attract certain players. Providing enhanced player-appeal is desirable.
   Gaming machines and Internet based gambling systems and Casino gambling
   machines, and on and off track betting systems, are known to have an initial flurry of
   interest when people play them a lot, and their frequency of use can then tail-off as
   people lose interest and move onto another new machine/experience.       It is known to
20 move slot machines/fruit machines from venue to venue, so that at each particular
   venue, they are new, and exciting, to the players that frequent that venue.        The
   industry that provides gambling/gaming and amusement machines and betting
   systems strives to provide machines with added interest for the player. Providing a
   new machine or system that provides a player with a new user-experience is a
25 problem for the industry. Many gambling machines are played by customers simply
   because they offer new experiences.         A new machine/offering is attractive to
   customers. Manufacturers and the owners of gambling venues therefore try to appeal
   to customers by having forever-new games or bets to play. What might be thought as
   "gimmicks" by some are actually improvements in player interest, and player
30 engagement with the game or betting experience, and are added value enhancements
   to the machines and systems that offer them. One reason why some people bet is for
   the entertainment/interest: not necessarily just to win money. After all, most people

                                                3
   know in their minds that statistically the house wins, but emotionally still enjoy the
   betting experience, and there is of course the chance of winning as well, which is part
   of the experience.
           An alternative, new, machine with extra interest for a player is sought by the
 5 industry. An aim of some embodiments of the invention is to provide a machine or
   system with increased player appeal, and/or to provide a new playing experience to
   the user.
           Problems faced by the industry include how to engage and retain player
   interest and how to provide systems and machines that do that. The invention, in
10 some embodiments at least, resides in providing an alternative solution to these
   known problems.
           Another problem of some gambling or amusement systems or machines is that
   they determine whether a player has won or lost, and the winning score/reel set of
   symbols/event internally, e.g. using a random number generator.         This allows the
15 possibility of the owner of the premises where the machine is located (or some other
   person) to tamper with the random number generator and cheat.          Random number
   generators may therefore need to be tamper-proof and/or tamper-evident, which adds
   to their cost and increases complications to the machine/system.       Moreover, if the
   random number generator goes wrong the machine is inoperative, tying up space in
20 the premises uselessly until an engineer can be called to fix it.
           Some random number generators are not actually that at all. They produce a
   number that is very difficult to predict, but perhaps not impossible to predict. For big
   money jackpots (e.g. $lm) it can be worth people trying to cheat.         Some random
   number generators have an algorithm which takes an input, e.g. a clock input, and
25 generates a number (e.g. generating a large number using the algorithm from the
   clock input and selecting the nth and nth + 1 digits, as a hypothetical example). They
   actually produce a number that is possible to predict if you know the algorithm and
   the position in a very long number sequence that has already been reached, for
   example. A "very difficult to predict number generator" might be another way at
30 looking at some random number generators. No human can press the gamble button
   of the system with the timing (to milliseconds) necessary to achieve a predictable
   outcome, even if they know what time they need to press it to win. However, it is

                                               4
   conceivable that for very big money prizes someone may make a machine that presses
   the gamble button, knows when, exactly, it was pressed, knows the reel symbols that
   were produced, and can repeat this a large number of times until it deduces the
   algorithm and/or the position in a large number sequence, and can deduce exactly
 5 when to press the button to win, and can control the timing of the actuation of the
   button to win. Also, inside help from the manufacturer of a gambling system cannot
   be ruled out.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
10          In one embodiment, a method of mapping sporting event results to game
   inputs is provided. One or more event results of a particular sporting event having a
   particular number of participants are received, and a set of rules is selected from a
   plurality of sets of rules based on the particular number of participants in the
   particular sporting event. For each of a plurality of bets, one or more inputs for a
15 game are determined by applying the selected set of rules to the received one or more
   event results of the particular sporting event. A result of the game is then determined
   for each of the plurality of bets based at least on the one or more determined inputs
   for that bet.
            In another embodiment, a method of mapping sporting event results to cards in
20 a card game is provided. One or more event results of a sporting event are received.
   For each of a plurality of bets, one or more simulated playing cards are determined
   from a plurality of playing cards by applying a set of rules to the one or more event
   results from the sporting event. A result of a card game are then determined for each
   of the plurality of bets based at least on the one or more simulated playing cards
25 determined for that bet.
            In yet another embodiment, a method of mapping sporting event results to die
   rolls is provided. One or more event results of a sporting event are received.      For
   each of a plurality of bets, a result of a simulated first die roll is determined by
   applying a set of rules to the one or more event results from the sporting event, a
30 result of a simulated second die roll is determined by applying the set of rules to the
   one or more event results from the sporting event, and a result of a craps game is

                                                 5
   determined based at least on the determined results of the simulated first die roll and
   the simulated second die roll.
           In yet another embodiment, a method of mapping sporting event results to
   roulette spins is provided. One or more event results of a sporting event are received.
 5 For each of a plurality of bets, the result of a simulated roulette spin is determined by
   applying a set of rules to the one or more event results from the sporting event, and a
   result of a roulette game is determined based at least on the determined result of the
   simulated roulette spin for that bet.
           In yet another embodiment, a method of mapping sporting event results to
10 spins of slot machine reels is provided. One or more event results of a sporting event
   are received. For each of a plurality of bets, a result of a simulated spin of a first slot
   machine reel is determined by applying a set of rules to a first portion of the one or
   more event results from the sporting event, a result of a simulated spin of a second
   slot machine reel is determined by applying the set of rules to a second portion of the
15 one or more event results from the sporting event, and a result of a simulated spin of a
   third slot machine reel is determined by applying the set of rules to a third portion of
   the one or more event results from the sporting event. Each of the determined results
   of the simulated spins of the first, second and third slot machine reels for each bet
   comprises one of a plurality of slot machine symbols. A result of a slots game is
20 determined for each of the plurality of bets based at least on the determined results of
   the simulated spins of the first, second and third slot machine reels.
           Various embodiments of the present invention may benefit from numerous
   advantages.    It should be noted that one or more embodiments may benefit from
   some, none, or all of the advantages discussed below.
25         One advantage is that systems and methods provide bettors pari-mutuel
   gaming based on sporting event results. Thus, a bettor may place a bet on a game,
   (such as blackjack, craps or roulette, for example) in which the inputs for the game
   (such as the cards, dice roll, or roulette spin, for example) are determined based on the
   results of a sporting event (such as the finishing positions of each horse in a horse
30 race, for example). The amount that the bettor wagers is entered into a pari-mutuel
   pool that is distributed (at least partially) in a pari-mutuel manner to all winning
   bettors. A pari-mutuel gaming provider may offer such gaming as an alternative to, or

                                               6
   in addition to, traditional pari-mutuel gaming, such as traditional pari-mutuel betting
   on horse racing.
           Another advantage is that such pari-mutuel gaming based on sporting event
   results may be provided online such that bettors may place bets through one or more
 5 websites associated with a betting provider. The, bettors need not travel to a casino,
   track or OTB parlor to place such bets.        Another advantage is that systems and
   methods provide rules for each game for mapping results from a sporting event (such
   as the finishing positions of each horse in a horse race, for example) to various inputs
   used in a game (such as the cards in a blackjack hand or a roll of each die in a craps
10 game, for example). For a particular game, a number of sets of such mapping rules
   may be provided, each corresponding to a particular number of participants in a
   sporting event. Thus, for example, one set of rules may be used to determine a roll of
   the dice for a craps game based on the finishing positions of horses in an eight-horse
   race, while a different set of rules may be used to determine a roll of the dice for the
15 craps game based on the finishing positions of horses in a twelve-horse race. Thus,
   inputs for games may be determined from various sporting events regardless of the
   number of participants in such sporting events.
           Yet another advantage is that an indication of the progress of a sporting event
   to which a bettor's bet is assigned may be communicated to the bettor via a
20 communication network. In certain embodiments, a video feed of all or portions of
   the sporting event (such as a horse race, for example) may be communicated to the
   bettor via the Internet. In some embodiments, the indication of the progress of the
   sporting event may be communicated to the bettor in real time or substantially in real
   time. For example, in particular embodiments, a video feed of the sporting event is
25 communicated to the bettor in real time or substantially in real time. Thus, the bettor
   may witness the sporting event that will be used to determine the result of his bet.
           Some embodiments of the invention remove the need for a random number
   generator in the machine.       The problems of the random number generator being
   accessible to people for them to interfere with it are overcome, as are those associated
30 with the possibility of being able to predict when to press the systems actuator button
   to achieve a win.

                                                7
           Providing an external source of input when determining the values of the reels,
   or other game elements, makes it harder for a casino owner, for example, to rig the
   machines: it is unlikely that they could rig sporting event results. There is no inside
   person able to reveal a secret number - generator algorithm. It is difficult to fix the
 5 result of sporting events.    If the particular sporting event that will be selected to
   control the game result is not known in advance it is impossible to know what
   sporting event to try to control if one were trying to cheat.
           Furthermore, problems associated with the random number generator going
   wrong, and thereby rendering the machine inoperative are overcome. There is no "in
10 machine" random number generator to go wrong.
           One advantage of some embodiments of the invention is that since the results
   of the sporting event can be mapped to a corresponding result of a game or game
   component,     it permits flexibility, and a degree of control, in determining the
   probability of certain game results.       For example if a particular more probable
15 sporting event outcomes are mapped to particular game event outcomes, that will
   enhance the probability of these game outcomes actually being realised (e.g. if the
   favourite horse of a race winning is mapped to the next card being a king then the
   next card being a king will have a greater probability then if the next card being a
   king were to be mapped to a 200-1 outsider horse in a race).
20         This allows the probability of certain game events to be controlled by
   controlling the mappings, including the probability of winning the game.
           Embodiments of the invention therefore provide an alternative way of a games
   system designer providing control over the statistical probability of particular game
   outcomes occurring.
25         If a player knows what sporting event outcome he needs to win a game (and
   the system may tell or show him that, possibly in advance of the sporting event
   concluding), they can see that the game result is not "fixed", and that they have a real
   chance of winning the game. This feeling can assist in enjoyment of the experience.
   Watching (or listening to) the result of the sports event, possibly even having
30 presented to them at least a part (e.g. the end period) of the sports event (e.g. on a
   display) also assists in ensuring that the game is seen as being fair. The sports event
   may be displayed to the user in real time, or close to real time.

                                                8
           Using different rules allocating sports events to particular games, or game
   element, outcomes, can alter the probability of a particular game outcome occurring.
   Thus there may be better chances of winning the game at one time than another.
   There may even be a "happy hour" concept where for a set, predetermined time,
 5 typically advertised to users in advance (and not necessarily an hour) the chances of
   winning are enhanced.         This can encourage people to frequent a particular
   establishment at a particular time.
           In some embodiments the user may be able to influence the result of the game
   by exercising skill and judgment in how they select the sporting event outcome/which
10 sporting event outcome they select. The user may be able to operate user-selection
   input means adapted to select the sporting event, or the participant, or the
   result/placing, or any combination of these, that will influence the game outcome.
   Alternatively, the system may do the selecting possibly with no user input.
           The game may be prolonged in time, adding to perceived value, by linking
15 game results with sports events, for example those that take place in the near future.
   A database of available sporting events and their timings may exist and may be
   accessible by a system processor, and the database may be updated in time.
            Some embodiments of the invention give added user interest by enabling a
   user to use a sports event that contributes to the value of an input to the game. Some
20 allow the user to select the sports event that contributes. Some allow the user to select
   a participant in the sports event that will contribute.        The user can, in some
   embodiments, feel that they have a chance of influencing the result of the game by
   their selections.
           Another advantage of embodiments of the present invention is that it is
25 possible to change the source or identity of the sporting event that influences the game
   input. This can be useful if one sports event (e.g. a baseball match) has finished and
   another, e.g. (a baseball game) is still playing. Input can be provided by the as yet
   unknown-result source available at any point in time. If for whatever reason there is
   an interruption in the supply of data from one source the systems or machine, in some
30 embodiments, may switch to obtaining data from another source, another sporting
   event source.

                                                 9
            The ability to switch sources of input data (that will determine the game
   outcome) makes it harder for a cheat to control the input data source.             It is not
   attractive to a cheat to invest a lot in trying to control one input source if the machine
   switches to using a different input source of data. This has an enhanced security
 5 effect.
            In some embodiments the user may be informed by the machine what is the
   source of external input data, e.g. sporting event data, or that a source of sporting data
   (or other external source) is used to control the game outcome, and possibly what
   sporting event (or other source) is relevant to determining the game outcome, possibly
10 for specific game elements (e.g. reels of a machine, or dice, or cards, or roulette spin
   or the like). The user may be informed of this before, during, or after a game. The
   user may be informed by a visual display, or audio or both.
            Embodiments     of the invention allow for the same non-random, non
   predictable, input source to provide an input to a plurality of systems or machines so
15 as to influence the results of bets placed on a plurality of machines. This can save
   cost and verification logistics in comparison with having a plurality of independent
   random number generators which each need buying, installing when the machine is
   being made, and optionally periodic checks to ensure that their integrity has not yet
   been compromised.
20          The results of sporting events, especially some sporting events that are
   expected to be both contested with the result in doubt, can provide an input that is
   non-predictable, but that is not produced by a random number generator. The result is
   not truly random, but is unpredictable enough to be used to control the outcome of a
   bet on a game where the value/identity of the game element is influenced by the
25 outcome of the sporting event result.
            In some embodiments the mapping of game results, or game element results
   (e.g. the symbols on the reels or the roll of a die) to the sporting event results may
   vary or be modified from game to game (or between some games). This can improve
   security since a knowledge of the mapping, and how it changes with time, is now
30 necessary to even attempt to rig the outcome.

                                                 10
           Furthermore, the mapping between sporting event results and game element
   results can be the same for a plurality of machines (e.g. all of the machines at one
   physical site, or at different sites), or it can be different.  This also allows better
   security since even if a way of rigging one machine is found, other machines will
 5 have different mappings and the "cheat" may not work on other machines.
           In some scenarios, local legislation may prohibit random number generators
   but allow systems that have the present invention.
           In some embodiments, the user may be able to select which external source of
   input is used to influence the bet, possibly with a knowledge of what were the
10 available input sources from which they can select. This may enhance a feeling of
   control, or skill mattering, and may improve the entertainment value of the experience
   for the user.
            Whilst the input being a sporting event result has great appeal, not least
   because such events are not easily susceptible to being "fixed", some aspects of the
15 invention could use a different source, optionally known to the player, that provides a
   non-truly random, but not predictable, value or input. This can enhance the player
   appeal of the game/bet and provide a new experience.       Seeking an external input to
   the system may, sometimes, take time (or be presented to the user as taking time) and
   may prolong the game/bet experience, enhancing perceived value.
20         The input parameter (e.g. sporting event result), may be displayed to the user,
   at least at certain times. The user may be able to see it moving, possibly not in real
   time, possibly in real time, or close to real time.
           Other advantages will be readily apparent to one having ordinary skill in the
   art from the following figures, descriptions, and claims.
25
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           For a more complete understanding of the present invention and for further
   features and advantages, reference is now made to the following description, taken in
   conjunction with the accompanying drawings, in which:
30         FIGURE 1 illustrates an example system for providing pari-mutuel gaming
   based on results from sporting events in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention;

                                              11
           FIGURE 2 is a chart illustrating several examples of game inputs for various
   games in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention;
           FIGURE 3 illustrates example rules for determining game inputs for a craps
   game based on results from a horse race according to one embodiment of the
 5 invention;
           FIGURE 4 illustrates example rules for determining inputs for a blackjack
   game based on results from a horse race and selected finishing positions according to
   one embodiment of the invention;
           FIGURE 5 illustrates example rules for determining inputs for card games in
10 general based on results from a horse race according to one embodiment of the
   invention;
           FIGURES 6A-6B illustrate example rules for determining inputs for a slots
   game based on results from a horse race and selected finishing positions according to
   one embodiment of the invention; and
15         FIGURE 7 illustrates an example method of providing pari-mutuel gaming
   based on results from a sporting event in accordance with the system of FIGURE 1.
   DETAILED       DESCRIPTION        OF     EXAMPLE       EMBODIMENTS            OF    THE
   INVENTION
20         FIGURE 1 illustrates an example system 10 for providing pari-mutuel gaming
   based on results from a sporting event in accordance with an embodiment of the
   present invention.   In general, system 10 allows users to place bets for which the
   results of such bets are determined at least in part by the results of sporting events,
   such as, for example, a horse race, a dog race, an auto race, a jai alai game, a baseball
25 game, a football game, a soccer game, a hockey game, a basketball game, or a cricket
   match. Users of system 10 may place bets on various games, such as standard casino
   games.    In one embodiment, each bet is assigned to one of a number of sporting
   events, such as horse races or dog races. Funds associated with each bet are included
   in a wager pool associated with the sporting event to which that bet is assigned. The
30 outcome of each bet is determined based at least in part on the results of the sporting
   event to which that bet is assigned, such as the finishing positions of horses
   participating in a horse race, for example.      For each winning bet, a payout is

                                                12
   determined in a pari-mutuel manner from the wager pool associated with the sporting
   event to which that winning bet was assigned.
           System 10 includes a betting system platform 12, a plurality of clients 14, and
   one or more pari-mutuel wager pool hosts 16. Clients 14 may be coupled to betting
 5 system platform 12 via a communication network 18 to provide users 20 access to
   betting system platform 12. Betting system platform 12 may be generally operable to
   manage bets 26 received from users 20 of clients 14. Pari-mutuel wager pool hosts 16
   may be coupled to betting system platform 12 via a communication network 22 and
   may host one or more pari-mutuel wager pools 30. In some embodiments, betting
10 system platform 12 functions as an Internet betting provider that provides Internet
   account wagering by providing online betting accounts to clients 14. Using an online
   betting account, a client 14 may interface with one or more websites associated with
   betting system platform 12 in order to fund the account, view betting information
   regarding betting events, and place bets 26. Such online betting accounts may include
15 one or more various types of accounts, such as deposit accounts, credit accounts, stop
   loss accounts, and hybrid accounts, for example.
           Communication network 18 couples and facilitates wireless or wireline
   communication      between   clients   14   and   betting    system platform    12,  while
   communication      network    22    couples    and    facilitates  wireless  or   wireline
20 communication between pool hosts 16 and betting system platform 12.                   Each
   communication network 18 and 22 may include one or more servers, routers,
   switches, repeaters,    backbones,    links   and/or any      other appropriate   type   of
   communication devices coupled by links such as wireline, optical, wireless, or other
   appropriate links. In general, each communication network 18 or 22 may include any
25 interconnection found on any communication network, such as a local area network
   (LAN), metropolitan area network (MAN), wide area network (WAN), the Internet,
   portions of the Internet, or any other data exchange system. In certain embodiments,
   communication networks 18 and 22 may be completely distinct, partially overlapping
   or integrated, or completely overlapping or integrated.
30         Pool hosts 16 may include any entity suitable to host a pari-mutuel wager pool
   30. For example, in the embodiment shown in FIGURE 1, pool hosts 16 include one
   or more sporting event locations 44, such as one or more horse tracks or dogs tracks,

                                                13
   for example, and one or more off track betting (OTB) entities 46, such as one or more
   OTB parlors or casinos, for example. As shown in FIGURE 1, each pool host 16 may
   maintain one or more pari-mutuel wager pools 30, as well as sporting event
   information 66 for each sporting event associated with that pool host 16. Each pari
 5 mutuel wager pool 30 is a pool of the funds associated with bets 26 assigned to a
   particular sporting event that is distributed in an at least partially pari-mutuel manner
   to users 20 who placed winning bets 26.
           Sporting event information 66 includes various information regarding sporting
   events scheduled to occur at each sporting event location 44 or associated with each
10 OTB entity 46, such as the type of the sporting event, the number of participants (such
   as the number of horses or dogs, for example) in the event, information regarding
   each participant in the event (such as the jersey number of each player or the number
   of each horse or dog, for example), the scheduled time for the start of the event, and
   an approximate duration of the event, for example.             Each pool host 16 may
15 communicate sporting event information 66 to betting system platform 12 at various
   times. For example, in certain embodiments, each pool host 16 may communicate
   sporting event information 66 to betting system platform 12 at the beginning of each
   day and send real-time or substantially real-time updates for such sporting event
   information 66 to betting system platform 12 throughout the day and night.
20         In some embodiments, pari-mutuel wager pools 30 are hosted by betting
   system platform 12 such that the funds associated with bets 26 are not transferred
   between betting system platform 12 and sporting event locations 44 or OTB entities
   46.   In other embodiments, pari-mutuel wager pools 30 are hosted by both betting
   system platform 12 and one or more pool hosts 16 such as one or more sporting event
25 locations 44 or OTB entities 46.
           As discussed above, betting system platform 12 may be generally operable to
   manage bets 26 received from clients 14 via communication network 18. Each bet 26
   is defined by one or more bet parameters 28 such as the identity of the user 20 who
   placed the bet 26, a unit stake 29 of the bet 26, the time the bet was placed, the game
30 associated with the bet, the particular type of bet, and one or more selected finishing
   positions 31, for example. The unit stake 29 of a bet 26 represents the amount that the
   user 20 placing the bet wishes to wager on the bet 26.         The unit stake 29 may be

                                                14
   defined as a monetary value, such as in dollars or pounds for example, as a number of
   betting credits, or in any other suitable manner.
           System 10 may offer bets 26 regarding any number of games that have one or
   more game inputs 34 that are typically determined based at least in part on luck or by
 5 chance.    Games offered by system 10 may include casino games (such as craps,
   blackjack, roulette, slots, keno, baccarat, war, money wheel, poker, pai gow poker,
   and hold 'em, for example), games that are similar to, or based on, such casino games,
   and other games having one or more game inputs 34.           As discussed above, game
   inputs 34 include one or more inputs for a game that are typically determined at least
10 in part on luck or by chance. FIGURE 2 is a chart illustrating several examples of
   game inputs 34 for various games offered by system 10 in accordance with one
   embodiment of the present invention.
           One or more types of bets may be available for various games offered to users
   20 by betting system platform 12.        Some of such types of bets may be similar or
15 identical to types of bets offered by a casino or other betting provider, while other
   types of bets may not. For example, for a craps game, example types of bets 26 may
   include a 7 or 11 bet, a field bet, a place bet, or a hardways bet. As another example,
   for a roulette game, example types of bets 26 may include a bet on black or red, a bet
   on odd or even, a straight bet (a bet on an individual number), a two-number bet, a
20 three-number bet, a four-number bet, a column bet, and a dozen bet. Thus, in such
   situations in which more than one type of bet 26 is available for a particular game,
   parameters 28 for each bet 26 on that game may define the type of that bet 26.
           In some embodiments, such as where sporting events include races (such as
   horses races, dog races or auto races, for example), one or more selected finishing
25 positions 31 are associated with certain bets 26. Each selected finishing position 31
   represents a particular finishing position in a race event, such as, for example, the
   winning position, the 4th place position, or the 9th place position. As discussed in
   greater detail below, the selected finishing positions 31 associated with a bet 26 are
   used to determine one or more game inputs 34 for that bet 26 based on the number of
30 the participant in the race event that finishes in each selected finishing position 31.
   For example, if the selected finishing positions 31 of "2nd" and "4th" are associated
   with a particular bet 26, and the bet 26 is assigned to a particular horse race, the

                                                15
   numbers of the horses finishing "2nd" and "4th" in the particular horse race may be
   used in determining one or more game inputs 34 for the particular bet 26. In certain
   embodiments, selected finishing positions 31 are selected automatically for various
   bets 26 received from users 20. For example, selected finishing positions 31 may be
 5 determined randomly for each bet 26. In other embodiments, a user 20 may select, or
   have the option to select, one or more finishing positions 31 for bets 26 placed by that
   user 20.
           In some embodiments, the one or more finishing positions 31 associated with
   each bet 26 assigned to a particular sporting event, or for each bet 26 on a particular
10 type of game, are the same. In other embodiments, different bets 26 assigned to a
   particular sporting event, or different bets 26 on a particular type of game, may have
   different associated finishing positions 31. For example, if two bettors place bets 26
   that are assigned to the same particular horse race, one of the bettors may have
   selected finishing positions 31 of 1st, 4th and 6th for his bet 26, while the other bettor
15 may have selected finishing positions 31 of 2nd, 3rd and 4th for his bet 26. In this
   example, suppose that the one or more game inputs 34 for each bet 26 are determined
   based on the horses that finish in each of the selected finishing positions 31 associated
   with that bet 26. Thus, the two bets 26 may have different game inputs 34, as well as
   different bet results 40.
20         Betting system platform 12 may include a processor 50 coupled to a memory
   52 and is generally operable to manage bets 26 received from users 20 of clients 14.
   Processor 50 is generally operable to execute various algorithms or calculations to
   determine various data such as game inputs 34, bet results 40, pool values 53 of each
   pari-mutuel wager pool 30, and payouts 42, for example. Processor 50 may comprise
25 any suitable processor that executes a betting system software application 54 or other
   computer    instructions,  such    as  a   central processing     unit (CPU)     or other
   microprocessor, and may include any suitable number of processors working together.
           Memory 52 may comprise one or more memory devices suitable to facilitate
   execution of the computer instructions, such as one or more random access memories
30 (RAMs), read-only memories (ROMs), dynamic random access memories (DRAMs),
   fast cycle RAMs (FCRAMs), static RAM (SRAMs), field-programmable gate arrays
   (FPGAs),    erasable programmable        read-only  memories     (EPROMs),     electrically

                                             16
   erasable programmable      read-only memories     (EEPROMs),    microcontrollers,   or
   microprocessors.
           Memory 52 is generally operable to store various information that may be
   used by processor 50 in determining game inputs 34, bet results 40, pool values 53 of
 5 each pari-mutuel wager pool 30, and payouts 42.       For example, memory 52 may
   comprise any suitable number of databases, which may be co-located or physically
   and/or geographically distributed. In the example shown in FIGURE 1, memory 52
   may store any or all of the following: account information 60 for users 20; bet
   information 62 regarding bets 26 received from users 20; sporting event information
10 66; event results 32; game inputs 34; a set of rules 36 for each game offered by
   betting system platform 12; bet results 40; payouts 42; and pool values 53 of pari
   mutuel wager pools 30 hosted by pool hosts 16.
           Account information 60 may include various information regarding one or
   more accounts maintained for each user 20 of system 10, such as, for example,
15 personal information regarding the user 20, an account ID, a user password, the type
   of each account maintained for the user 20, and an account balance 64 for each
   account.  In certain embodiments, account information 60 for each user 20 may be
   managed by betting system platform 12. For example, betting system platform 12
   may manage the account balance 64 for each account associated with a user 20, which
20 may include, for example, adding funds received from users 20, moving funds
   between accounts and pari-mutuel wager pools 30 as appropriate, and allowing users
   20 to withdraw funds from their accounts.
           Bet information 62 regarding received bets 26 may include the parameters 28
   defying each bet 26 received from a user 20, such as the identity of the user 20 who
25 placed the bet 26, the unit stake 29 of the bet 26, the time the bet was received by
   betting system platform 12, the game associated with the bet, the particular type of
   bet, and one or more selected finishing positions 31, for example. In addition, bet
   information 62 regarding each bet 26 may identify other information regarding the bet
   26, such as the pari-mutuel wager pool 30 (if any) to which the bet 26 is assigned by
30 betting system platform 12; the status of the bet 26, such as whether the bet 26 is
   pending, completed or cancelled, and if the bet 26 was completed, the bet result 40 of

                                                17
   the bet 26 (for example, whether the bet 26 was determined a win, loss, or push); and
   the status of the funds associated with the bet 26, for example.
           As    discussed   above,   sporting   event  information   66   includes various
   information regarding various sporting events.        Betting system platform 12 may
 5 receive sporting event information 66 from race hosts 16 at various times.           For
   example, as discussed above, in certain embodiments, betting system platform 12 may
   receive sporting event information 66 from each pool host 16 at the beginning of each
   day, as well as receive real-time or substantially real-time updates to such sporting
   event information 66 throughout the day and night. Thus, sporting event information
10 66 maintained by betting system platform 12 may be kept substantially updated.
           Event results 32 may include results from various types of sporting events,
   such as a horse race, a dog race, an auto race, a jai alai game, a baseball game, a
   football game, a soccer game, a hockey game, a basketball game, or a cricket match,
   for example. Event results 32 may include results of completed events or in some
15 embodiments, results of events within the duration of a sporting event. Event results
   32 for a horse race, a dog race, or an auto race may include, for example, the finishing
   position of each participant (such as the finishing position of each horse, dog or
   automobile, for example) in the race event, the number or other indicia assigned to
   each participant (such as each horse, dog, or automobile) in the race event, the
20 position of particular participants at a certain point within the race event (such as the
   leading car at the end of a particular lap in an auto race, for example), the time of the
   finish of the race event, and the time of the official results for the race event.     In
   certain embodiments, event results 32 for race events are received from a sporting
   event location 44 and/or OTB entity 46 after the completion of the race event or after
25 the results of the race event have been made official.
           Event results 32 for a baseball game may include, for example, whether the
   next pitch is a ball or a strike, or the outcome of the next at-bat in the game. Event
   results 32 for a football game may include, for example, the result of the next play
   from scrimmage (such as the number of yards gained or lost, or the number of the
30 player who carries the ball or makes a tackle, for example), the score at the end of a
   quarter, or the score at the end of the game. Event results 32 for a jai alai game may
   include, for example, points scored by particular players.        Event results 32 for a

                                                18
   soccer game may include, for example, the number of the player who scores the next
   goal, takes the next shot or commits the next foul, or the time of the next goal scored,
   the next foul, or the next corner kick.       Event results 32 for a hockey game may
   include, for example, the number of the player who scores the next goal, takes the
 5 next shot or commits the next penalty, or the time of the next goal scored, the next
   penalty, or the next whistle. Event results 32 for a basketball game may include, for
   example, the score at the end of the game, the score at a particular point in the game
   (such as at the end of a quarter or half), the number of the player who scores the next
   basket, or the number of points scored in a particular period of time. Event results 32
10 for a cricket match may include, for example, the number of runs or innings.
            As discussed above, game inputs 34 include one or more inputs for a game
   that are typically determined at least in part on luck or by chance, and FIGURE 2
   illustrates a table 90 defining example game inputs 34 for various games in
   accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Table 90 includes a first
15 column 92, a second column 94 and a number of rows 96. First column 92 indicates
   various games, while second column 94 indicates one or more game inputs 34 for
   each game listed in column 92. Each row 96 associates a particular game with one or
   more one or more game inputs 34 for that game. For example, row 96a indicates that
   example game inputs 34 for a roulette game may be (1) the numerical result of a
20 simulated roulette spin - a single number from I to 36, or 0 or 00; or (2) the color of
   the result of a simulated roulette spin - either black, red or green.
   Rules 36 for Determining Inputs 34 for Games and Bet Results 40 for Bets 26
            The one or more set of rules 36 for each game offered by betting system
25 platform 12 may include any rules suitable to define that game. The rules 36 for each
   game may be identical, similar, or different from the rules used to define such game
   by a particular betting services provider, such as a casino or online gambling service,
   for example. In addition, the rules 36 for each game define how to determine game
   inputs 34 fiom event results 32 and/or parameters 28 of bets 26, such as selected
30 finishing positions 31, for example.
            FIGURES 3-6 illustrate several example sets of rules 36 for various games
   that define how to determine game inputs 34 for such games based on (1) event

                                                19
   results 32 from horse races and, in some cases, (2) selected finishing positions 31 for
   each bet 26. Multiple sets of rules 36 are provided for each game such that each set of
   rules 36 for a particular game corresponds to one or more particular numbers of
   horses in the relevant horse race. In some embodiments, a different set of rules 36
 5 may be provided for each anticipated number of horses in a horse race that may be
   used for determining game inputs 34. It should be noted that although FIGURES 3-6
   illustrate a first set of rules 36 for a horse race having 8 horses and a second set of
   rules 36 for a horse race having 12 horses, additional sets of rules 36 may be provided
   for each game for horse races having other numbers (i.e., other than 8 or 12) of
10 participating horses.
            FIGURE 3 illustrates example sets of rules 36 for determining inputs 34 for a
   craps game based on received event results 32 from horse races having either 8 or 12
   horses according to one embodiment of the invention. FIGURE 4 illustrates example
   rules 36 for determining inputs 34 for a blackjack game based on (1) received event
15 results 32 from horse races having either 8 or 12 horses and (2) selected finishing
   positions 31 according to one embodiment of the invention.         FIGURE 5 illustrates
   example rules 36 for determining inputs 34 for card games in general based on
   received event results 32 from horse races having either 8 or 12 horses according to
   one embodiment of the invention. FIGURES 6A-6B illustrate example rules 36 for
20 determining inputs 34 for a slots game based on (1) received event results 32 fiom
   horse races having either 8 or 12 horses and (2) selected finishing positions 31
   according to one embodiment of the invention. It should be understood that rules 36
   shown in FIGURES 3-6 are merely examples. Rules 36 may be similarly provided
   for determining game inputs 34 for other types of games, as well as for determining
25 game inputs 34 from event results 32 of other types of sporting events, such a horse
   race, a dog race, an auto race, a jai alai game, a baseball game, a football game, a
   soccer game, a hockey game, a basketball game, or a cricket match, for example.
            Rules 36 may also define how to determine a bet result 40 for each bet 26
   based on game inputs 34 determined from event results 32 and/or parameters 28 of
30 bets 26, such as the type of each bet 26. For example, rules 36 for a blackjack game
   may define that (1) if the total value of the cards determined as inputs 34 for that bet
   26 is between 18 and 21 (including 18 and 21), the bet 26 is a "win"; (2) if the total

                                                20
   value of the cards determined as inputs 34 is less than 17 or greater than 21, the bet 26
   is a "loss"; and (3) if the total value of the cards determined as inputs 34 is equal to
   17, the bet 26 is a "push."
           In some embodiments, rules 36 may also define how to determine payouts 42
 5 for winning bets 26. Rules 36 for certain games may define that payouts 42 per unit
   stake 29 for winning bets 26 on a particular game may be based on (1) the type of
   each winning bet 26 and/or (2) the one or more inputs 34 determined for each winning
   bet 26. Thus, rules 36 may prescribe different payouts 42 for two winning bets 26
   having the same unit stake 29 if (1) the bets 26 were different types of bets 26, as
10 indicated by parameters 28 of each bet 26 and/or (2) one or more different inputs 34
   were determined for each bet 26. For example, suppose a slots game in which the
   inputs 34 (the spin of each of three reels) are determined from event results 32 using
   the example rules 36 shown in FIGURES 6A-6B above. Rules 36 may also define
   various payouts for different combinations of inputs 34 for winning bets 26.          For
15 example, suppose that rules 36 define that a bet 26 is a winning bet if the three inputs
   34 are either (1) three cherries, (2) three lemons, (3) three oranges or (4) three bars,
   and all bets having any other combination of inputs 34 are losing bets. Rules 36 may
   further define, for example, that the payout 42 for winning bets 26 having three
   cherries as inputs 34 will be three times the payout 42 for winning bets 26 having
20 three lemons, three oranges, or three bars as inputs 34. Thus, in this example, the
   payout 42 for a $10 bet 26 for which three cherries are determined as inputs 34 will be
   twice the amount of a $10 bet 26 for which three oranges are determined as inputs 34.
   Other variations of rules 36 may be implemented in other examples to achieve
   different results.
25         Bet results 40 include results of each bet 26, which may be determined by
   betting system platform 12 based at least on the set of rules 36 for the particular game
   and one or more game inputs 34 determined for that bet 26. In certain embodiments,
   bet results 40 may comprise one or more of the following: "win," "loss,". "push," or
   "no action."
30
   Determining Pari-Mutuel Payouts 42 for Winning Bets 26

                                                21
           Pool values 53 of each pari-mutuel wager pool 30 represent the current value
   of funds within each pari-mutuel wager pool 30.         Betting system platform 12 may
   communicate with each pool host 16 in order to maintain pool values 53 current for
   each pari-mutuel wager pool 30. In certain embodiments, betting system platform 12
 5 may use pool values 53 for determining other data, such as payouts 42 for winning
   bets 26, for example.
           Payouts 42 may be determined in a pari-mutuel manner by betting system
   platform 12 for each winning bet 26. For example, payouts 42 for each winning bet
   26 for a particular sporting event are determined based on the unit stake 29 associated
10 with that bet 26, the total of the unit stakes 29 associated with all winning bets 26, the
   value of the pari-mutuel wager pool 30 associated with the particular sporting event
   and/or rules 36 regarding the game that are relevant to determining payouts 42 for
   winning bets 26. As discussed above, betting system platform 12 may use a pool
   value 53 corresponding with the pari-mutuel wager pool 30 for determining payouts
15 42. In certain embodiments, one or more values may by subtracted from the value of
   the pari-mutuel wager pool 30 before payouts 42 are determined for winning bets 26.
   For example, the unit stakes 29 of "push" bets 26 and/or "no action" bets 26 may be
   subtracted from the value of the pari-mutuel wager pool 30 before payouts 42 are
   determined.    In addition, a take-out may be subtracted fi-om the pari-mutuel wager
20 pool 30 before payouts 42 are determined. In certain embodiments, the take-out is a
   predetermined percentage of the pari-mutuel wager pool 30.                In a particular
   embodiment, the take-out is 10% of the pari-mutuel wager pool 30. The take-out for
   a pari-mutuel wager pool 30 may be associated with the pool host that hosts that pari
   mutuel wager pool 30. For example, a sporting event location 44 that hosts a pari
25 mutuel wager pool 30 for a horse race occurring at that sporting event location 44
   may subtract and keep at least a portion of a take-out from the pari-mutuel wager pool
   30. In certain embodiments, the take-out may be distributed between a pool host 16
   and betting system platform 12 according to some predetermined arrangement.
           Thus, in certain embodiments, the payout for winning bets 26 for a particular
30 sporting event may be calculated as follows. First, "push" bets 26 and/or "no action"
   bets 26 are subtracted from the pool value 53 corresponding to the pari-mutuel wager
   pool 30 for the particular sporting event. Next, a take-out, which is a predetermined

                                               22
   percentage of the remaining pool value 53, is subtracted from the remaining pool
   value 53. The remaining pool value 53 may then be divided among all winning bets
   26, in proportion to the unit stake 29 of each winning bet 26.
           For example, suppose that the unit stakes 29 of winning bets 26 placed by
 5 Client A and Client B for a particular horse race are $50 and $100, respectively.
   Further suppose that the pool value 53 corresponding to the pari-mutuel wager pool
   30 for the particular horse race is $5,000, the total unit stake 29 of all "push" bets 26
   is $2,000, the total unit stake 29 of all winning bets 26 is $1,000, and the take-out is
   10%. To determine the payout 42 for Clients A and B, first the $2,000 for the "push"
10 bets 26 is subtracted from the $5,000 pool value, leaving a pool value of $3,000. Next
   the 10% take-out ($300) is removed, leaving a pool value of $2,700. The remaining
   $2,700 is then divided among all winning bets 26 in proportion to the unit stake 29 of
   each winning bet 26. Since the unit stake 29 of Client B's winning bet 26 ($100)
   accounts for 1/10 of the total unit stake 29 of all winning bets 26 ($1,000), the payout
15 42 for Client B's bet 26 will be (1/10)*($2,700)      = $270.    Similarly, since the unit
   stake 29 of Client A's winning bet 26 ($50) accounts for 1/20 of the total unit stake 29
   of all winning bets 26 ($1,000), the payout 42 for Client A's bet 26 will be
   (1/20)*($2,700)   = $135.
           In certain embodiments, betting system platform 12 may be associated with or
20 comprise one or more web servers 56 operable to store websites and/or website
   information 58 in order to host one or more web pages 72. Web servers 56 may be
   coupled to communication networks 18 or 22 and may be partially or completely
   integrated with, or distinct from, betting system platform 12.       Each client 14 may
   include a browser application 74 operable to provide an interface to web pages 72
25 hosted by web servers 56 such that users 20 may communicate information to, and
   receive information from, betting system platform 12 via communication network 18.
   For example, one or more web pages 72 may allow a user 20 to select various
   parameters for a bet 26, such as the type of game, the type of the bet 26, the unit stake
   29 for the bet 26 and/or one or more selected finishing positions 31, for example, and
30 to submit the bet 26 having such selected parameters.
           One or more web pages 72 may be operable to communicate various
   information to the user 20, such as, for example, various account information 62,

                                                23
   information regarding available bets 26 that may be placed by user 20 (such as the
   current pari-mutuel wager pool 30 for a particular sporting event or the amount
   wagered by all users 20 on particular types of bets 26, for example), information
   regarding the status of bets 26 placed by the user 20 (such as the sporting event to
 5 which each bet 26 is assigned, and the current pari-mutuel wager pool 30 for that
   sporting event, and the amount wagered by all users 20 on particular types of bets 26
   for that sporting event, for example).
   Assigning Bets 26 to Sporting Events and/or Pari-Mutuel Wager Pools 30
10         As discussed above, betting system platform 12 manages the assignment of
   each received bet 26 to a particular sporting event and submits the funds associated
   with that bet 26 to a pari-mutuel wager pool 30 corresponding to that sporting event.
   The management of this assignment of bets 26 to pari-mutuel wager pools 30 may be
   done in any suitable manner.       In certain embodiments, betting system platform 12
15 may determine the particular sporting event (and corresponding pari-mutuel wager
   pool 30) to which to assign each bet 26 based on various sporting event information
   66 regarding sporting events scheduled to occur around the time that the bet 26 was
   received by betting system platform 12.        Such sporting event information 66 for a
   particular sporting event may include, for example, the type of the sporting event, the
20 number of participants in the sporting event, information regarding the participants in
   the sporting event, the scheduled time of the sporting event, and an approximate
   duration of the sporting event.      In some embodiments, betting system platform 12
   may execute one or more suitable algorithms to manage the assignment of bets 26 to
   pari-mutuel wager pools 30 based on such sporting event information 66 and/or
25 various other information.
           Betting system platform 12 may also take into account one or more bet
   parameters 28 associated with each bet 26 in determining the sporting event and/or
   pari-mutuel wager pool 30 to which to assign each bet 26. For example, in some
   embodiments, only bets 26 on a particular game (for example, craps, blackjack or
30 roulette), or particular types of bets on a particular game (for example, bets on red or
   black, but not bets on individual numbers, in a roulette game), are assigned to a
   particular sporting event. In other embodiments, more than one pari-mutuel wager

                                               24
   pool 30 may correspond with each sporting event.           For example, for a particular
   sporting event, different pari-mutuel wager pools 30 may be used for bets 26 on
   different games (for example, separate pools 30 for bets 26 on craps, bets 26 on
   blackjack, and bets 26 on roulette), or for particular types of bets on a particular game
 5 (for example, a first pool 30 for bets 26 on red/black in a roulette game and a second
   pool 30 for bets 26 on individual numbers in a roulette game). In such embodiments,
   betting system platform 12 may determine for each bet 26 both (1) the sporting event
   to which to assign the bet 26, and (2) the appropriate one of the one or more pari
   mutuel wager pools 30 corresponding to that sporting event, based on the bet
10 parameters 28 of the bet 26. In other embodiments, a pari-mutuel wager pool 30 is
   provided for each sporting event and is used for all bets 26 assigned to that sporting
   event, regardless of the game (for example, craps, blackjack or roulette) or the type of
   each bet 26.
           In some embodiments, betting system platform 12 determines (or attempts to
15 determine) which sporting event will be the next in time - such as the next race to
   begin, the next race for which the betting will be closed, the next race to finish, or the
   next race for which official results will be posted, for example - and assigns particular
   received bets 26 to that sporting event.         In other embodiments, betting system
   platform 12 assigns particular bets 26 to the sporting event that is (a) determined to be
20 next in time and (b) that meets one or more other criteria for the bet 26. For example,
   suppose that according to the set of rules 36 for blackjack games, game inputs 34
   (card values) can only be determined from event results 32 of a race (such as a horse
   race, a dog race or an auto race, for example) having at least 8 race participants. In
   such instance, betting system platform 12 assigns each received bet 26 for a blackjack
25 game to the next race that has at least 8 participants.
   Communicating Progress Data 80 Regarding Sporting Events to Users 20
           In some embodiments, betting system platform 12 may also receive progress
   data 80 from one or more sporting event locations 44 and/or OTB entities 46 via
30 communication network 22 regarding the progress of particular sporting events.
   Progress data 80 may include for example, an indication of the respective positions of
   each participant in a sporting event as the sporting event progresses.          In certain

                                               25
   embodiments, progress data 80 includes a video of a sporting event, and in a
   particular embodiment, progress data 80 includes a live (or substantially live) video
   feed of a sporting event.
            Betting system platform 12 may communicate such progress data 80 to users
 5 20 via communication network 18. In certain embodiments, betting system platform
    12 may communicate such progress data 80 to users 20 via one or more web pages 72
   that may be viewed using browser application 74.           For example, betting system
   platform 12 may communicate to a user 20 one or more web pages 72 indicating
   progress data 80 regarding a sporting event to which a bet 26 placed by that user 20
10 has been assigned such that the user 20 may track the progress of the sporting event.
   In certain embodiments in which progress data 80 includes a video of a sporting
   event, betting system platform 12 may communicate such video to a client 14 via
   communication network 18. In a particular embodiment, betting system platform 12
   may communicate a live (or substantially live) video feed of the sporting event to
15 client 14 via communication network 18.        In various embodiments, betting system
   platform 12 may communicate progress data 80 to users 20 in real-time, substantially
   in real-time, or with some delay.
   General Operation of System 10
20          As discussed above, in operation, betting system platform 12 may allow users
   20 to place bets 26 in which the results of the bets 26 are determined at least in part by
   the results of sporting events, such as a horse race, a dog race, an auto race, a jai alai
   game, a baseball game, a football game, a soccer game, a hockey game, a basketball
   game, or a cricket match, for example. Each bet 26 is defined by one or more bet
25 parameters 28 such as the identity of the user 20 who placed the bet 26, the unit stake
   29 of the bet 26, the time of the bet, the game associated with the bet, the particular
   type of bet, and in some instances, one or more selected finishing positions 31, for
   example.     Bets 26 received by betting system platform 12 from various users 20
   within a particular time period are assigned to a particular sporting event and the unit
30 stake 29 of the bet 26 is included in a pari-mutuel wager pool 30 corresponding to the
   particular sporting event.

                                               26
           After the sporting event is completed, event results 32 of the sporting event
   may be received by betting system platform 12. For example, if the sporting event is
   a horse race, event results 32 may include the number of the horse finishing in each
   position in the race. Betting system platform 12 may then determine for each bet 26
 5 one or more game inputs 34 for the game. In situations or embodiments in which
   game inputs 34 are the same for each bet 26, betting system platform 12 may
   determine the one or more game inputs 34 based at least on (1) the received event
   results 32; and (2) relevant rules 36 regarding the game. For example, assuming the
   sporting event is a horse race, in an embodiment in which betting system platform 12
10 uses the rules 36 for craps shown in FIGURE 3, betting system platform 12 may
   determine as game inputs 34 for a craps game a first simulated die roll and a second
   simulated die roll based on (1) the received results 32 of the horse race and (2) the
   rules 36 shown in FIGURE 3.        In using the rules 36 shown in FIGURE 3, betting
   system platform 12 may select the appropriate set of rules corresponding to the
15 number of participants in the race.      The determined first simulated die roll and a
   second simulated die roll are used for each bet 26.
           Alternatively, in situations or embodiments in which different game inputs 34
   are used for different bets 26, betting system platform 12 may determine the one or
   more game inputs 34 for each bet 26 based at least on (1) the received event results
20 32; (2) relevant rules 36 regarding the game; and, in some instances, (3) one or more
   bet parameters 28 of that bet 26. For example, again assuming the sporting event is a
   horse race, suppose an embodiment in which each bet 26 for a slots game has three
   finishing positions 31 randomly assigned to that bet 26. Betting system platform 12
   may determine as game inputs 34 for each slots bet 26 the results of a simulated spin
25 of a first slot machine reel, a second slot machine reel, and a third slot machine reel
   based on (1) the received results 32 of the horse race; (2) the rules 36 shown in
   FIGURES 6A-6B; and (3) the three finishing positions 31 assigned to that bet. In
   particular, for each bet 26, betting system platform 12 may use rules 36 to map the
   numbers of the horse that finish in the three finishing positions 31 to the results of
30 simulated spins of a first, second, and third slot machine reel, which results are used
   as game inputs 34 for that bet 26.         Since different finishing positions 31 may

                                                 27
   be assigned to different bets 26, the results of the simulated spins of the first, second,
   and third slot machine reels may be different for different bets 26.
            After determining the game input(s) 34 for each bet 26, betting system
   platform 12 may then determine a bet result 40 of the game for each bet 26 assigned
 5 to the particular race based at least on (1) relevant rules 36 regarding the game; (2) the
   determined game input(s) 34; and, in some instances, (3) one or more parameters 28
   of that bet 26. In some embodiments, betting system platform 12 may determine a bet
   result 40 of "win," "loss," or in some cases, "push," for each bet 26. For example, in
   the craps example discussed above, the parameters 28 associated with each bet 26
10 may define the type of the bet, such as a "7 or 11" bet, a "field" bet, or a "place" bet
   on a particular number, for example. A "7 or 11" bet 26 is determined a "win" if the
   total value of the two simulated dice rolls equals 7 or 11.          A "field" bet 26 is
   determined a "win" if the total value of the two simulated dice rolls equals 2, 3, 4, 9,
   10, 11, or 12. A "place" bet 26 is determined a "win" if the total value of the two
15 simulated dice rolls equals a number selected by the user who placed the bet 26
   (which selected number may be stored as a bet parameter 28 for that bet 26).
            After determining the bet result 40 for each bet 26, betting system platform 12
   may then determine how to distribute the pari-mutuel wager pool 30, or at least a
   portion of the pari-mutuel wager pool 30, in a pari-mutuel manner.           For example,
20 betting system platform 12 may determine a distribution of at least a portion of the
   pari-mutuel wager pool 30 among all winning bets 26, including determining a payout
   42 for each winning bet 26 based at least on (1) the portion of the pari-mutuel wager
   pool 30 to be distributed among winning bets 26; (2) the total of the unit stakes of all
   winning bets 26; (3) the unit stake of that winning bet 26; and, in some situations, (4)
25 payout odds based on the type of that bet 26. In some situations, one or more bets 26
   may be determined to be "pushes."           For example, in a particular embodiment, a
   blackjack bet 26 in which the cards (i.e., game inputs 34) determined for the user total
   17 is determined a "push."        In certain embodiments, the unit stake of all bets 26
   determined to be "pushes," if any, may be withheld in the pari-mutuel wager pool 30
30 (i.e., not distributed) and carried over to a subsequent race or other sporting event.
   Example Management of Craps Bets

                                                28
            As a more particular example of the operation of system 10, suppose the game
   is craps, the particular sporting event is a particular horse race having eight horses,
   and the game inputs 34 for the craps game are two die rolls determined according to
   the rules 36 shown in FIGURE 3. Further suppose that according to the rules 36 for
 5 the craps game, the types of bets 26 available to users 20 may include the following:
            (1) a "pass line bet" - the user 20 wins if the total of the two dice equals 7 or
   11; the user 20 loses if the total of the two dice equals 2, 3 or 12; and the user 20
   pushes if the total of the two dice will equals any other number;
            (2) a "field bet" - the user 20 wins if the total of the two dice equals 3, 4, 9,
10  10, or 11; the user 20 wins enhanced odds if the total of the two dice equals 2 or 12;
   and the user 20 loses if the total of the two dice equals 5, 6, 7 or 8; and
            (3) a "place bet" - the user 20 selects a number from 2-12 and wins enhanced
   odds if the total of the two dice equals the selected number; the user 20 loses if the
   total of the two dice equals any other number.
15          Further suppose that a number of bets 26 are received from various users 20
   and assigned to the particular horse race. The bets assigned to the particular horse
   race include first bet 26 defined by bet parameters 28 as a "pass line bet," a second bet
   26 defined by bet parameters 28 as a "field bet," and a third bet 26 defined by bet
   parameters 28 as a "place bet on the number 4." Further suppose that the horse race is
20 run and the horses finish in the following order: horse #2 (win), horse #8 (place),
   horse #7 (show), horse #4, horse #1, horse #3, horse #5, horse #6.
            Betting system platform 12 first determines the appropriate set of rules 36
   based on the number of horses in the race. Thus, betting system platform 12 selects
   from the rules 36 shown in FIGURE 3 the set of rules 36 corresponding to a horse
25 race having eight horses. Betting system platform 12 then determines the game inputs
   34 for the craps game - namely, the first and second simulated die rolls. According to
   the rules 36 shown in FIGURE 3 for an eight-horse race, since the winning horse is
   horse #2, the first simulated die roll is a 2. Further, since the 2nd place horse is horse
   #8, betting system platform 12 looks at the 3rd place horse to determine the second
30 simulated die roll. Since the 3rd place horse is horse #7, the second simulated die roll
   is the same as the first simulated die roll - namely, a die roll of 2. Thus, the total of
   the first and second simulated die rolls equals 4.

                                              29
            Betting system platform 12 then determines a bet result 40 of the craps game
   for each bet 26 assigned to the particular horse race. The first bet 26 (the "pass line
   bet") is determined a "push" based on the rules discussed above for a "pass line bet"
   and a total two-dice roll of 4. Thus, the unit stake 29 for the first bet 26 (along with
 5 the unit stake 29 for all other bets 26 determined to be "pushes") is assigned to a
   carry-over pool. The carry-over pool is withheld in the pari-mutuel wager pool 30
   (i.e., not distributed) and carried over to a subsequent race or other sporting event.
   After the unit stakes 29 for all "push" bets 26 are assigned to the carry-over pool, a
   take-out may be determined and withdrawn from the remaining value of pari-mutuel
10 wager pool 30. For example, in one embodiment, 10% of the remaining value of the
   pari-mutuel wager pool 30 may be removed as a take-out.
            The second bet 26 (the "field bet") is determined a "win" based on the rules
   discussed above for a "field bet" and a total two-dice roll of 4. The third bet 26 (the
   "place bet on the number 4") is also determined a "win" since the total of the dice roll
15 is 4. Payouts 42 from the remaining portion of the pari-mutuel wager pool 30 (i.e.,
   the portion remaining after the take-out and the unit stakes of all "pushes" are
   subtracted) are then be determined for each winning bet 26, including the second bet
   26 and third bet 26, in a pari-mutuel manner. The payout 42 for the winning second
   bet 26 may be determined by dividing the unit stake 29 of the second bet 26 by the
20 total of the unit stakes 29 of all winning bets 26, and multiplying the quotient by the
   remaining portion of the pari-mutuel wager pool 30. The payout 42 for the winning
   third bet 26 may be determined by dividing the unit stake 29 of the third bet 26 by the
   total of the unit stakes 29 of all winning bets 26, multiplying the quotient by the
   remaining portion of the pari-mutuel wager pool 30, and doubling the resulting
25 product. The payout 42 for the winning third bet 26 is doubled since the rules 36
   discussed above indicate that the user 20 wins enhanced odds for winning "place
   bets."
            FIGURE 7 illustrates an example method of providing casino game betting
   based on pari-mutuel racing in accordance with the system of FIGURE 1. At step
30  100, web pages 72 providing various betting information and offering one or more
   types of bets 26 for various games are communicated from betting system platform 12
   to clients 14 and displayed by browser applications 74. At step 102, a user 20A of

                                               30
   system 10 interacts with one or more web pages 72 to define and submit a bet 26A to
   betting system platform 12.      Bet 26A is at least partially defined by a number of
   parameters 28 selected by user 20A.       The parameters 28 for bet 26A include the
   identity of user 20A, the unit stake 29, the time that the bet was submitted, the
 5 particular game (such as craps, blackjack, slots or roulette, for example), the particular
   type of bet, and for certain games, one or more selected finishing positions 31.
           At step 104, betting system platform 12 receives sporting event information 66
   for various horse races and dog races from one or more sporting event locations 44
   and/or OTB entities 46. The sporting event information 66 for each race includes at
10 least the type of the race, the number of participants in the race, the number assigned
   to each participant in the race, the scheduled time for the start of the race, and an
   approximate duration of the race.
           At step 106, betting system platform 12 executes a set of algorithms to
   determine how to assign bet 26A to a particular race based on various sporting event
15 information 66 received at step 104, including the number of horses or dogs
   participating in each race and the scheduled time for the start of the each race. In this
   embodiment, betting system platform 12 assigns bet 26A to the race that is (a)
   determined to be next in time and (b) that has a sufficient number of participants for
   the type of bet 26A. At step 108, betting system platform 12 transfers funds in the
20 amount of the selected unit stake 29 for bet 26A into a pari-mutuel wager pool 30
   corresponding with a particular horse race to which bet 26A was assigned. At step
    110, betting system platform 12 adds the unit stake 29 of bet 26A to the pool value 53
   corresponding with the pari-mutuel wager pool 30, and subtracts the unit stake 29 of
   bet 26A from an account balance 64 maintained for user 20A. As discussed above, in
25 some embodiments, betting system platform 12 may also take into account one or
   more bet parameters 28 associated with bet 26A in determining the race and/or pari
   mutuel wager pool 30 to which to assign bet 26A.                 For example, in some
   embodiments, betting system platform 12 may assign bet 26A to a particular pari
   mutuel wager pool 30 that corresponds to the particular game (for example, craps,
30 blackjack or roulette) of bet 26A and/or the type of bets on that particular game (for
   example, a bet on red or black in a roulette game).

                                               31
           At step 112, betting system platform 12 closes the betting for the particular
   horse race, thus assigning no more bets 26 to the particular horse race. At step 114,
   the particular horse race begins. At step 116, progress data 80 indicating the progress
   of the particular horse race is communicated from the sporting event location 44
 5 hosting the particular horse race to betting system platform 12 and to client 14 being
   used by user 20A such that user 20A can track the progress of the particular horse
   race in real-time or substantially in real-time. As discussed above, progress data 80
   may include a live or substantially live streaming video feed of the particular horse
   race.
10         At step 118, after the completion of the particular horse race, event results 32
   are determined at sporting event location 44 and communicated to betting system
   platform 12. Event results 32 include the assigned number and finishing position of
   each horse in the particular horse race.      At step 120, betting system platform 12
   selects a set of rules 36 from a plurality of sets of rules 36 associated with the
15 particular game (such as craps, blackjack, slots or roulette, for example) for which bet
   26A regards. In certain embodiments, betting system platform 12 maintains, for each
   type of game, different sets of rules 36 for different numbers of race participants and
   at step 120, selects the set of rules 36 corresponding to the number of horses in the
   particular horse race to which bet 26A was assigned.
20         At step 122, betting system platform 12 uses the set of rules 36 selected at step
    120 to determine one or more game inputs 34 for bet 26A based on event results 32
   and/or parameters 28 of bet 26A, such as finishing positions 31 selected by user 20A
   at step 102. Game inputs 34 for each other bet 26 assigned to the particular horse race
   are also determined. At step 124, betting system platform 12 uses the set of rules 36
25 selected at step 120 to determine the bet result 40 of bet 26A, as well as the bet results
   40 of each other bet 26 assigned to the particular horse race. In this embodiment, the
   bet result 40 for bet 26A is either "win," "lose," or "push."
           If bet 26A is determined a "win" at step 124, a payout 42 is determined for bet
   26A, as well as for each other winning bet 26 assigned to the particular horse race, by
30 betting system platform 12 at step 126. The payout 42 for bet 26A is determined
   based on the unit stake 29 of bet 26A, the total of the unit stakes 29 of all winning
   bets 26 (including bet 26A) assigned to the particular horse race, the value of the pari-

                                                32
   mutuel wager pool 30 and/or rules 36 that are relevant to determining payouts 42 for
   winning bets 26.      As discussed above, the payouts 42 for each winning bet 26,
   including bet 26A, may be determined in a pari-mutuel manner after removing (1) the
   total unit stake 29 for all "push" bets 26 that were assigned to the particular horse race
 5 and (2) a take-out. At step 128, the payout 42 determined for bet 26A is added to the
   account balance 64 associated with user 20A.
           If bet 26A is determined a "loss" at step 122, no payout 42 is determined for
   bet 26A at step 130. If bet 26A is a determined a "push" or "no action" at step 124,
   no payout 42 is determined for bet 26A at step 132, but the funds for bet 26A (in the
10 amount of the unit stake 29) are entered into a carry-over pool (along with the funds
   for each other "push" bet 26). The funds in the carry-over pool are maintained within
   pari-mutuel wager pool 30       and the method returns to step 114 such that bet 26A
   (along with each other "push" bet 26) is kept alive for the next race or other sporting
   event. In other embodiments, the funds in the carry-over pool are removed from pari
15 mutuel wager pool 30 and the method returns to step 106 to reassign the funds in the
   carry-over pool to one or more other pari-mutuel wager pools 30, as appropriate.
   Thus, user 20A does not need to wait until the next horse race hosted by the same
   sporting event location 44 that hosted the particular horse race.
           It should be understood that in alternative embodiments, the present invention
20 contemplates using methods with additional steps, fewer steps, different steps, or
   steps in different sequential order so long as the steps remain appropriate for
   providing and managing casino game betting based on pari-mutuel racing.
           Although embodiments of the invention and their advantages are described in
   detail, a person skilled in the art could make various alterations, additions, and
25 omissions without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as
   defined by the appended claims.
           Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
   requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
   "'comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or
30 group of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of
   integers or steps.

                                               33
          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not, and should not be
  taken as, an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part
  of the common general knowledge in Australia. Further, the reference to any prior art
  in this specification is not, and should not be taken as, an acknowledgement or any
5 form of suggestion that such art would be understood, ascertained or regarded as
  relevant by the skilled person in Australia.

                                                   34
WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
         1. A method of facilitating game events over a communication network between an
interface of a computing platform and interfaces of computing devices, the method, comprising:
        receiving by at least one processor of an interface of a computing game platform at least:
(i) from an interface of a computing device of a first user a first bet on a first game and a unit
stake that represents an amount that the first user wishes to wager on the first game and (ii) from
an interface of a computing device of a second user a second bet on a second game and a unit
stake that represents an amount that the second user wishes to wager on the second game, the
second game being different from the first game, and wherein the first game comprises a slots
game and the second game comprises a casino game;
        providing, by at least one processor of an interface of the computing platform, a payment
acceptor interface to allow a user selection of an option to accept payment associated with an
amount associated with the wager of the first and second games;
        in response to detection of selection of the user option for payment from the payment
acceptor, enabling receiving, by at least one processor of an interface of the computing platform,
from the payment acceptor interface, data representing payment associated with the amount
associated with the wager of the first and second games;
        assigning by at least one processor of an interface of the computing platform the first bet
and second bet to a sporting event, wherein the sporting event has an associated pari-mutuel
wager pool, and wherein assigning the first bet and second bet to the sporting event includes
including the unit stake of each of the first bet and second bet in the pari-mutuel pool;
        receiving at least one processor of an interface of a computing platform one or more
event results of the sporting event;
        causing to display, by at least one processor of an interface of the computing platform, a
graphical user interface to allow a user selection of an option for real time information regarding
the status of the sporting event associated with the first and second bets;
        in response to detection of selection of the option for real time information regarding the
status of the sporting event, causing to enable an interface on the computing device of a user a
video feed of the sporting event to communicate live data of the sporting event to allow the user
to keep track of the progress of the sporting event associated with the bet placed by the user;

                                                    35
         for each of the first bet and second bet, determining by at least one processor of an
interface of the computing platform one or more inputs for the respective first game and second
game based at least in part on the received one or more event results of the sporting event,
including determining for the first bet results of simulated spins of first, second, and third virtual
slot machine reels, wherein each of the determined results of the simulated spins of the first,
second, and third virtual slot machine reels comprises one of a plurality of virtual slot machine
symbols;
          for each of the first bet and second bet, determining by at least one processor of an
interface of the computing platform a result of the respective first game and second game based
at least in part on the determined one or more inputs for the game; and
         for each of the first bet and second bet where the result of the respective first game and
second game comprises a win, determining by at least one processor of an interface of the
computing platform a distribution of at least a portion of the pari-mutuel pool;
         wherein the pari-mutuel pool includes unit stakes from a plurality of bets including the
first bet and second bet, and wherein determining the distribution for each of the first bet and
second bet where the result of the respective first game and second game comprises a win
comprises:
                 determining a total unit stake by summing unit stakes of winning bets of the
         plurality of bets including the unit stakes of the first and second bets;
                 for the first bet, determining a first proportion wherein the first proportion
         comprises the unit stake of the first bet divided by the total unit stake, and wherein the
         distribution for the first bet comprises the first proportion times a portion of the pari
         mutuel pool; and
                 for the second bet, determining a second proportion wherein the second
         proportion comprises the unit stake of the second bet divided by the total unit stake and
         wherein the distribution for the second bet comprises the second proportion times the
         portion of the pari-mutuel pool;
         providing, by at least one processor of an interface of the computing platform, a payment
output interface to provide an option to allow user selection of payment associated with an
amount associated with results of the first and second games; and

                                                   36
        in response to detection of selection of the user option for payment, generating, by at
least one processor of an interface of the computing platform, to the payment output interface,
payment associated with the amount associated with the results of the first and second games.
        2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
        for the first bet, determining a result of a simulated spin of at least one additional virtual
slot machine reel based at least in part on one additional portion of the one or more event results
from the sporting event;
        wherein each of the determined results of the simulated spins of the first, second, third
and each additional virtual slot machine reel comprises one of a plurality of virtual slot machine
symbols; and
        for the first bet, determining the result of the slots game based at least on the determined
results of the simulated spins of the first, second, third, and each additional virtual slot machine
reel.
        3. The method of claim 1, wherein:
        the sporting event has a number of participants;
        determining the one or more inputs for the respective first game and second game
comprises determining the one or more inputs for each game by applying a respective set of rules
to the one or more event results from the sporting event; and
        the method further comprises selecting the set of rules for each of the first game and
second game from a plurality of sets of rules based on the number of participants in the sporting
event.
        4. The method of claim 1, wherein:
        the sporting event is a race event having a plurality of participants;
        each of the participants in the race event has a numerical identifier; and
        the one or more event results comprise the numerical identifier of the participant
finishing in one or more of the finishing positions.

                                                    37
         5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sporting event is a particular one of a plurality of
sporting events having various numbers of participants.
         6. The method of claim 5, the method further comprising assigning each of the first bet
and second bet to the sporting event based at least in part on a time that each of the first bet and
second bet is placed.
         7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more inputs for the respective
first game and second game of the respective first bet and second bet comprises applying for
each game a respective set of rules to the received one or more event results from the sporting
event and one or more bet parameters associated with the respective bet.
         8. The method of claim 7, wherein the one or more bet parameters associated with the
first bet and second bet are selected by the user who placed the respective bet.
         9. The method of claim 7, wherein the one or more bet parameters associated with the
first bet and second bet are determined randomly.
         10. The method of claim 7, wherein:
         the sporting event is a race event having a number of participants, each participant having
a numerical identifier;
         the one or more bet parameters associated with each of the first bet and second bet
comprise an indication of one or more finishing positions in the race event;
         the one or more event results comprise the numerical identifier of the participant
finishing in one or more finishing positions in the race event; and
         the set of rules for each of the first game and second game comprises rules for
determining the one or more inputs for each game based on the numerical identifiers of the
participants that finished in each of the one or more finishing positions indicated by the one or
more bet parameters associated with the respective bet.
         11. The method of claim 1, wherein:

                                                   38
        one or more bet parameters are associated with the first bet;
        the sporting event is a race event having a number of participants, each participant having
a numerical identifier;
        the one or more bet parameters associated with the first bet comprise an indication of one
or more finishing positions in the race event;
        the one or more event results comprise the numerical identifier of the participant
finishing in one or more finishing positions in the race event;
        the set of rules for the first game comprises an algorithm and a set of first relationships, a
set of second relationships, and a set of third relationships, each first relationship comprising a
correlation between a result of a simulated spin of a first slot machine reel and one or more
possible results of the algorithm, each second relationship comprising a correlation between a
result of a simulated spin of a second slot machine reel and one or more possible results of the
algorithm, and each third relationship comprising a correlation between a result of a simulated
spin of a third slot machine reel and one or more possible results of the algorithm; and
        determining the results of the simulated spins of the first, second, and third slot machine
reels comprises:
                applying the algorithm to the numerical identifiers of the participants that finished
        in each of the one or more finishing positions indicated by the one or more bet parameters
        associated with the first bet to determine one or more first results of the algorithm, one or
        more second results of the algorithm, and one or more third results of the algorithm;
                determining, based on the set of first relationships, the result of the simulated spin
        of the first slot machine reel corresponding to the one or more determined first results of
        the algorithm;
                determining, based on the set of second relationships, the result of the simulated
        spin of the second virtual slot machine reel corresponding to the one or more determined
        second results of the algorithm; and
                determining, based on the set of third relationships, the result of the simulated
        spin of the third virtual slot machine reel corresponding to the one or more determined
        third results of the algorithm.

                                                   39
         12. A system of facilitating game events over a communication network between an
interface of a betting computing platform and interfaces of computing devices, the system,
comprising:
        at least one processor of a computing platform; and
        a memory electronically coupled to the at least processor and having instructions store
thereon that when executed by the at least one processor direct the at least one processor to:
        receive at least: (i) from an interface of a computing device of a first user a first bet on a
first game and a unit stake that represents an amount that the first user wishes to wager on the
first game and (ii) from an interface of a computing device of a second user a second bet on a
second game and a unit stake that represents an amount that the second user wishes to wager on
the second game, the second game being different from the first game, and wherein the first
game comprises a slots game and the second game comprises a casino game;
        provide, by at least one processor of an interface of the computing platform, a payment
acceptor interface to allow a user selection of an option to accept payment associated with an
amount associated with the wager of the first and second games;
        in response to detection of selection of the user option for payment from the payment
acceptor, enable receipt, by at least one processor of an interface of the computing platform,
from the payment acceptor interface, data representing payment associated with the amount
associated with the wager of the first and second games;
        assign the first bet and second bet to a sporting event, wherein the sporting event has an
associated pari-mutuel wager pool, and wherein assigning the first bet and second bet to the
sporting event includes including the unit stake of each of the first bet and second bet in the pari
mutuel pool;
        receive one or more event results of the sporting event;
        cause to display, by at least one processor of an interface of the computing platform, a
graphical user interface to allow a user selection of an option for real time information regarding
the status of the sporting event associated with the first and second bets;
        in response to detection of selection of the option for real time information regarding the
status of the sporting event, cause to enable an interface on the computing device of a user a
video feed of the sporting event to communicate live data of the sporting event to allow the user
to keep track of the progress of the sporting event associated with the bet placed by the user;

                                                     40
         for each of the first bet and second bet, determine one or more inputs for the respective
first game and second game based at least in part on the received one or more event results of the
sporting event, including determining for the first bet results of simulated spins of first, second,
and third virtual slot machine reels, wherein each of the determined results of the simulated spins
of the first, second, and third virtual slot machine reels comprises one of a plurality of virtual slot
machine symbols;
         for each of the first bet and second bet, determine a result of the respective first game and
second game based at least in part on the determined one or more inputs for the game; and
         for each of the first bet and second bet where the result of the respective first game and
second game comprises a win, determine a distribution of at least a portion of the pari-mutuel
pool;
         wherein the pari-mutuel pool includes unit stakes from a plurality of bets including the
first bet and second bet, and wherein determining the distribution for each of the first bet and
second bet where the result of the respective first game and second game comprises a win
comprises:
                 determining a total unit stake by summing unit stakes of winning bets of the
         plurality of bets including the unit stakes of the first and second bets;
                 for the first bet, determining a first proportion wherein the first proportion
         comprises the unit stake of the first bet divided by the total unit stake, and wherein the
         distribution for the first bet comprises the first proportion times a portion of the pari
         mutuel pool; and
                 for the second bet, determining a second proportion wherein the second
         proportion comprises the unit stake of the second bet divided by the total unit stake and
         wherein the distribution for the second bet comprises the second proportion times the
         portion of the pari-mutuel pool;
         provide, by at least one processor of an interface of the computing platform, a payment
output interface to provide an option to allow user selection of payment associated with an
amount associated with results of the first and second games; and
         in response to detection of selection of the user option for payment, generate, by at least
one processor of an interface of the computing platform, to the payment output interface,
payment associated with the amount associated with the results of the first and second games.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
