                                          ABSTRACT
        The present invention relates to the composition of a nanoparticle based on a
magnesium salt, and methods of drug delivery using the nanoparticle. A preferred
embodiment uses magnesium phosphate, with or without a shell to deliver aiRNA and/or
siRNA. The nanoparticles of the present invention are also effective when administered
orally.

                                                   1
   BIODEGRADABLE AND CLINICALLY-COMPATIBLE NANOPARTICLES AS DRUG
                                      DELIVERY CARRIERS
                       CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This application is a divisional of Australian patent application no. 2014215421,
filed 5 February 2014, derives from PCT/US2014/014751, filed 5 February 2014, and claims
priority to and the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Serial No. 61/761,012, filed
February 5, 2013 - which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety to
the extent allowed by applicable laws and regulations.
            STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH OR
                                          DEVELOPMENT
[0002]      Not Applicable.
                                      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0003]       The present invention relates to novel nanoparticle compositions, method of making
them and using them as drug delivery carriers.
                             BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0004]       With the ever-expanding arsenal of therapeutic agents, including both
macromolecule and small molecules, the biomedical and pharmaceutical industries had
increasingly realized the importance of a safe, practical and effective delivery vehicle of these
therapeutic agents for the mammalian especially the human population. There are many desired
characteristics for a satisfactory delivery vehicle: it needs to be nontoxic, therefore,
biocompatible, preferably biodegradable or absorbable within a reasonable time period. For
systemic administration, it needs to be stable enough to circulate to the target site while
shielding the therapeutics from being degraded or digested in the body, and avoid significant
immune responses unless the delivery is actually designed to trigger such responses. It needs to
be able to penetrate physiological barriers in order to access target tissues, cells, cellular
compartments or organelles. It also needs to be soluble enough under the physiological
conditions of a target site or during a target time period to release the

                                            2
agents it carries. Furthermore, a controlled release of the therapeutic agents over time
often is highly desired.
[0005]      Among new kinds of therapeutic agents developed in recent decades are
those based on the natural process of RNA interference (RNAi) after its discovery in
 1998 by Fire and Mello in C. elegans. Central to the process of RNAi are two types of
ribonucleic acid (RNA) molecules: microRNA (miRNA) and small or short
interfering RNA (siRNA). Researchers have been developing promising therapeutic
applications based on both types of molecules and their roles in both plants and
animals, most notably in transcriptional and post-transcriptional gene silencing. For
example, exogenous siRNAs or their expression vectors have been engineered to be
introduced directly to a host or expressed in host cells to regulate gene expression
implicated in development, immune response and diseases.
[0006]      A new kind of RNA molecules based on the naturally occurring siRNA
form (double-stranded and 21 base pairs long with 2-nucelotide 3' overhangs on both
strands) has also been rationally devised. It is called asymmetrical interfering RNA
(aiRNA). See, PCT Patent Publication WO 2009/029688. Advantages of aiRNA over
siRNA include better efficacy and potency, rapid onset of action, better durability, a
shorter length of the RNA duplex to avoid non-specific interferon like response,
reduced off-target effects, and reduced cost of synthesis.
[0007]      Despite the explosion of immense interest in RNAi, and with many calling
it the most important pharmacological advance in recent history, researchers have
come to realize that the success of RNAi-based therapy in mammals depends, in large
parts, on the intracellular delivery of siRNAs to specific tissues and organs where the
gene of interest is expressed. See Vaishnaw, A. et al., "A status report on RNAi
therapeutics," Silence (2010) 1:14. In fact, the lack of a satisfactory delivery system
has increasingly become the bottleneck in harnessing the power of RNAi therapeutics
as many other aspects of technical hurdles are being resolved. See Davidson, B. et al.,
"Current prospects for RNA interference-based therapies," Nature Reviews (May
2011) 12:329-340. For example, one challenge in devising a reliable delivery system
for siRNA is to increase the circulation half-life of siRNA in blood and to avoid
premature renal excretion. To that end, researchers have modified the siRNAs using a
conjugation-based approach to some success. For instance, in a mouse system,
cholesterol-conjugated siRNAs administered intravenously have been shown to
significantly increase in the circulation half-life and knockdown of the target mRNA

                                              3
in the liver. See Soutschek J., et al. Nature (2004) 432: 173-178. However, the biggest
challenge remains to be designing a delivery system that can be clinically compatible
as well as capable of delivering sufficient silencing RNA to tissues and cells to
achieve meaningful gene silencing.
[0008]       The search for an optimal drug delivery system has also lead researchers to
nanoparticle technologies, which have shown great potential in both spatial and
temporal controls in drug delivery. Many nanoparticles have been proposed for use as
carriers for biological macromolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids, see, e.g.,
U.S. Patent Nos. 5,219,577 and 7,651,694. In 2010, reports surfaced of effective
systemic administration of siRNA to patients via a targeted delivery system in which
nanoparticles made of a cyclodextrin-based polymer is used, see Davis, M. et al.
Nature (2010) 464, 1067-1070. However, the cyclodextrin-based nanoparticle
approach, while promising, only showed marginal gene silencing efficacy after
systemic administration. Novel nanoparticle technology is still urgently needed to
achieve necessary delivery efficiency for drug efficacy.
[0009]       Most of the current exploration of nano-scale delivery vehicles for RNAi
based therapeutic agents has focused on liposome-based carriers or polymer-based
carriers. Nanoparticles based on other constitutions such as metals (e.g., gold) and
calcium phosphate (see Li, J. et al. J ControlRelease. (2010) 142(3): 416-421) have
also been studied but to a much lesser extent. However, there are ongoing concerns
and disappointment over the lack of biodegradability with certain metals and their
ensuing cytotoxicity, and over the safety and delivery efficiency of calcium-phosphate
particles. As a result, despite their potential advantages over viral vectors, the
applicability of nanoparticles made of these materials continues to be limited as viable
delivery tools of biologically active molecules. Accordingly, there remains a great
need for innovative nonviral nanoparticle compositions as drug delivery vehicles.
                                        SUMMARY
[0010]       The present invention provides new materials and compositions of
nanoparticles that can be used for delivering therapeutic agents including those based
on RNAi technologies.
[0011]       In one aspect, the present invention provides a nanoparticle for delivering
a medically useful agent or a therapeutic agent where the nanoparticle includes a

                                            4
biodegradable and clinically compatible core including a magnesium salt and a
medically useful agent. In some embodiments, the core consists of a carrier or
inactive ingredient that consists substantially of a magnesium salt only-in other
words, in those embodiments, there is substantially no other inactive ingredient used
to constitute the core. The magnesium salt can be inorganic, such as magnesium
phosphate, or organic. The medically useful agent, or the active therapeutic
ingredient, for example, can be a nucleic acid, a protein or peptide, or a small
molecule. The nucleic acid may be selected from the group consisting of an antisense
DNA, an RNA, a DNA-RNA hybrid, a PNA, and an aptamer. In an embodiment, the
RNA includes aiRNA. In another embodiment, the RNA includes siRNA, or a
mixture of siRNA and aiRNA. In one feature, the aiRNA or siRNA targets at least a
messenger RNA (mRNA) that either encodes a protein or regulates a part of a
biological pathway implicated in a mammalian disease. In an alternate embodiment,
the protein or peptide is an antibody or an antibody fragment.
[0012]      In one feature, the medically useful agent is disposed inside the core of the
nanoparticle. In an alternate feature, the medically useful agent is disposed on a
surface of the core of the nanoparticle.
[0013]      Optionally, in one feature, the core of the nanoparticle of the invention
may also include calcium phosphate. Further, the core may also include an additive
such as a nucleic acid, a protein or small peptide, a lipid, a surfactant, an amino acid,
a carbohydrate, a small molecule, and/or a biocompatible polymer.
[0014]      In one feature, the nanoparticle of the invention further includes a shell or
coating around the core; the shell may comprise a surfactant (e.g., Cremophor EL,
Tween-20, Tween-80, Solutol, and/or Triton), a protein or small peptide (e.g., histone
and/or protamine), a lipid, a ligand, an amino acid, a carbohydrate, a nucleic acid, a
small molecule and/or a biocompatible polymer. In some embodiments, the core or
the shell, may contain a targeting ligand, including cell-type-specific, tissue-specific
targeting ligand and homing ligand, a cell-penetrating peptide (e.g., polyarginine and
polylysine), an albumin, an albumin derivative, a histone, a protamine, Cremophor
EL, Solutol, Tween, Triton, cyclodextrin, RGD tripeptide, cholesterol, a phospholipid,
polyethylene glycol (PEG), or a combination thereof.
[0015]      In some embodiments, the average diameter of the nanoparticle of the
invention (including any shell) is about 200 nanometers or less, or, preferably,
between about 5 nanometers and about 100 nanometers, more preferably, between

                                            5
about 5.5 nanometers and about 80 nanometers, and even more preferably, between
about 5.5 nanometers and about 30 nanometers.
[0016]      In one feature, the nanoparticle of the invention is more soluble in a
solution with a pH value between about 6.0 and about 7.0 than in one with a pH of
about or above 7.0. In one embodiment, the nanoparticle is even more soluble in a
solution with an acidic pH equal to or less than about 6.0 than in one with a pH of
about 7.0.
[0017]      In another feature, the nanoparticle of the invention is characterized with a
surface charge (on a coating or shell, if any) between about -30 mV and about +50
mV, or preferably, between about -10 mV and about +20 mV, or even more
preferably, between about -5 mV and about +10 mV.
[0018]      These and other features of the invention apply to all embodiments
described herein unless explicitly disclaimed.
[0019]      In a first embodiment, the present invention provides a nanoparticle that
includes a core substantially consisting of a magnesium salt, and a medically useful
agent coated on a surface of the core. The magnesium salt is preferably magnesium
phosphate. The nanoparticle may optionally include a shell around the core. And the
medically useful agent may be aiRNA, siRNA or a mixture thereof.
[0020]      In a second embodiment, the present invention provides a nanoparticle that
includes a core that, in turn, includes only a magnesium phosphate and one or more
medically useful agents disposed inside said core. The nanoparticle may optionally
include a shell around the core. And the medically useful agent may be aiRNA,
siRNA or a mixture thereof.
[0021]      In a third embodiment, the present invention provides a nanoparticle that
includes a core that, in turn, includes only magnesium phosphate, calcium phosphate,
and one or more medically useful agents. The nanoparticle may optionally include a
shell around the core. And the medically useful agent may be aiRNA, siRNA or a
mixture thereof. And the medically useful agent may be aiRNA, siRNA or a mixture
thereof.
[0022]      In a fourth embodiment, the present invention provides a nanoparticle that
includes a core that, in turn, includes magnesium phosphate, a biocompatible additive,
and a medically useful agent. The additive may be a lipid, a surfactant, a protein or
peptide, albumin or albumin derivatives, a nucleic acid, a carbohydrate, an amino
acid, a biocompatible polymer, polyarginine, polylysine, or a polyalkylene glycol

                                             6
(e.g. PEG). The lipid may be cholesterol or a phospholipid. And the medically useful
agent may be aiRNA, siRNA or a mixture thereof There may be an optional shell
surrounding the core. The shell may include various ingredients as described above in
summary and below in detail.
[0023]       In a preferred embodiment, the present invention provides a nanoparticle
that includes a core that, in turn, includes magnesium phosphate with aiRNA disposed
inside said core, a shell around the core and including a surfactant (e.g., Cremophor
EL, Solutol, Tween or Triton), a protein or peptide (e.g., histone and/or protamine), a
lipid, a ligand, an amino acid, a carbohydrate, a small molecule, a nucleic acid, and/or
a biocompatible polymer. And the average diameter of the nanoparticle is between
about 2 nanometers and about 200 nanometers, more preferably between about 5 nm
and about 100 nm, 80 nm or 50 nm. The protein or peptide may be an albumin or an
albumin derivative, and the lipid may be cholesterol or a phospholipid. In a
particularly preferred embodiment, a nanoparticle of the invention includes a
magnesium phosphate core mixed or loaded with an active agent; the core is further
surrounded by a shell that includes one or more surfactants. In a method embodiment
of the invention, a nanoparticle is manufactured by coating its core with a surfactant
to achieve a size of between about 5 nm and about 50 nm.
[0024]       In another aspect of the invention, a pharmaceutical composition is
provided including the nanoparticles of the invention, e.g., a plurality of nanoparticle
that each includes a biodegradable and clinically compatible core including a
magnesium salt and a medically useful agent. In an embodiment, the composition
further includes a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, carrier or diluent. In a
preferred embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention is
formulated for oral administration.
[0025]       In a further aspect of the invention, a method is provided that treats a
disease or condition in a mammalian subject. The method includes administering to
the mammalian subject a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical
composition of the invention. In a preferred embodiment, the composition is
administered orally into the subject.
[0026]       In yet another aspect of the invention, a method is provided for delivering
an active agent into a mammalian subject. The method includes administering to the
mammalian subject a plurality of nanoparticles, each being a nanoparticle of the

                                                  7
invention. In a preferred embodiment, the nanoparticles are administered orally into the subject.
[00271       In an embodiment of the invention, a method of delivering an active agent into a
mammalian subject is provided. The method includes administering orally into the subject at
least one nanoparticle loaded with an active agent, and preferably a plurality of nanoparticles
each loaded with said agent. The active agent may be an active pharmaceutical ingredient. In a
particular embodiment, the nanoparticle comprises a core that includes a magnesium salt and
the active agent is either an aiRNA or siRNA. In an embodiment, a method is provided for
treating a disease in a mammalian subject, said method comprising administering orally into
said mammalian subject a therapeutically effective amount of an active pharmaceutical
ingredient carried by a plurality of nanoparticles, preferably with cores comprising a
magnesium salt.
10028]       Related to these aspects, the present invention provides nanoparticles and
pharmaceutical compositions that are effective in orally delivering an active agent, e.g., a
pharmaceutical ingredient or a medically useful agent into a mammalian subject. In a preferred
embodiment, a pharmaceutical composition is provided with a nanoparticle and an active
pharmaceutical ingredient, where the composition is capable of, after being administered orally,
eliciting medicinal or therapeutic effects treating at least one disease or condition such that the
composition would qualify as a pharmaceutical candidate meeting normal requirements for
clinical applications, alone or in combination with other pharmaceuticals.
[0029]       A further aspect of the invention provides a nanoparticle that includes an albumin
based core and a medically useful agent. The core may include a peptide that is a modified
albumin, an albumin fragment or a derivative of albumin. The nanoparticle may further include
a magnesium salt such as magnesium phosphate. As in other embodiments of the invention, the
medically useful agent may be an antisense DNA, an RNA, a DNA-RNA hybrid, a PNA,
aptamer, an antibody, an antibody fragment and a small molecule.
[0030]       According to yet another aspect of the invention, a nanoparticle is provided with a
core that includes gold and an aiRNA. In an embodiment, aiRNA is coated on the surface of a
substantially gold core. The core may further include magnesium phosphate, preferably coated
on the core in the same layer with aiRNA as a mixture or in a separate layer. The nanoparticle
may further include an optional

                                            8
shell around the core. The shell may include a protein or peptide, a lipid, a surfactant,
a ligand, an amino acid, a carbohydrate, a small molecule, a nucleic acid, or a
biocompatible polymer. The aiRNA, in one feature, targets at least an RNA that either
encodes a protein or regulates a part of a biological pathway implicated in
autoimmune disease, or an inflammatory disease. In one embodiment, the aiRNA
targets human TNF-a (tumor necrosis factor-a) function. In another embodiment, the
aiRNA targets human IL-6 (Interleukin-6) function.
[0031]      Other aspects and embodiments of the present invention are set forth or
will be readily apparent from the following detailed description of the invention.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0032]      Figures 1-4 illustrate various embodiments of the nanoparticle of the
invention in cross-sectional views.
[0033]      Figure 5 schematically illustrates exemplary methods for making the
nanoparticles of the present invention where their magnesium-based cores loaded
with aiRNA are further coated with a shell that, in various embodiments, may contain
lipids, polymers, proteins and/or surfactants.
[0034]      Figure 6, through graphics, presents physical data on a nanoparticle
embodiment with a magnesium core. Size distribution of particle from six different
batches is shown in the upper left graph and zeta potential distribution of those
batches is shown in the lower left graph. The table on the right shows the average size
and zeta potential of those six batches.
[0035]      Figure 7 consists of photographic images of fluorescence resulting from
the transfection of GFP plasmid in cells from an SW480 cell line using calcium or
magnesium phosphate cores of the invention with a histone coating. Images display a
24 h and 48 hour transfection period.
[0036]      Figure 8 schematically illustrates an exemplary method for making a gold
nanoparticles and loading it with aiRNA according to an embodiment of the present
invention.
[0037]      Figure 9, through graphics, presents physical data on a gold nanoparticle
embodiment, which is schematically shown on the right before conjugation to aiRNA
takes place as outlined in FIG. 8. Size distribution of the particle is shown in the
upper left graph and zeta potential distribution is shown in the lower left graph.

                                             9
[0038]      Figure 10 schematically illustrates how the gold nanoparticle shown in
FIG. 9 can be conjugated to an aiRNA molecule.
[0039]      Figure 11 schematically illustrates how aiRNA molecule can be released
from the gold nanoparticle shown in FIG. 10.
[0040]      Figure 12 is an image of a Western blot gel electrophoresis comparing
gene silencing efficacy between unloaded PEGylated gold nanoparticle and those
loaded with aiRNA. Concentration for unloaded gold nanoparticles was 3.17 x 10 -10
M.
[0041]      Figure 13 illustrates in vitro gene silencing effect achieved through
delivering aiRNA using a magnesium phosphate-based nanoparticle with a polymer
based shell. Left side is an image of a Western blot gel electrophoresis where the first
and fourth lanes, counting from the left, are negative controls (unloaded
nanoparticles) and the rest of the lanes are nanoparticles loaded with aiRNA of
various concentrations. Upper right side schematically illustrates the composition of
the loaded nanoparticle. Lower right side is a chart showing analytical data of the
nanoparticles.
[0042]      Figure 14 illustrates in vitro gene silencing effect achieved through
delivering aiRNA using a magnesium phosphate-based nanoparticle with a
protein/peptide-based shell. The protein was albumin. The upper row consists of
images of two Western blot gel electrophoreses (left one detects P-catenin and the
right one detects PLK1). Lower right side is a chart showing analytical data of the
nanoparticles.
[0043]      Figure 15 illustrates in vitro and in vivo gene silencing effects achieved
through delivering modified aiRNA (2'-O-Me-aiRNA) using a magnesium
phosphate-based nanoparticle with a protein/peptide-based shell. The protein was
albumin. The upper row consists of images of two Western blot gel electrophoreses
showing effective suppression of P-catenin through delivery of 2'-O-Me-aiRNA. The
lower row graphically illustrates in vivo efficacy observed in SW480 xenograft.
[0044]      Figure 16 illustrates in vitro gene silencing effect achieved through
delivering aiRNA using a magnesium phosphate-based nanoparticle with a histone
based shell. Left side is an image of a Western blot gel electrophoresis showing
suppression of P-catenin expression using nanoparticles loaded with the aiRNA of
various concentrations. On the right side is a chart showing analytical data of the
nanoparticles.

                                             10
[0045]       Figure 17 illustrates in vitro gene silencing effect achieved through
delivering aiRNA using a magnesium phosphate-based nanoparticle with a shell that
includes both histone and a small peptide (RGD tripeptide). Included here are images
of three Western blots showing suppression of P-catenin using nanoparticles loaded
with aiRNA of various concentrations ("V7" was coated with cyclic RGD and "V8"
linear RGD). On the right side is a chart showing analytical data of the nanoparticles.
[0046]       Figure 18 illustrates in vivo gene silencing effect achieved through
delivering aiRNA using a magnesium phosphate-based nanoparticle with a shell that
includes both histone and a small peptide (RGD tripeptide).
[0047]       Figure 19 illustrates varying degrees of in vitro gene silencing effect
achieved through delivering aiRNA using a magnesium phosphate-based nanoparticle
with a shell that includes both histone and a surfactant or RDG tripeptide.
[0048]       Figure 20 illustrates in vitro gene silencing effect achieved through
delivering aiRNA using a magnesium phosphate-based nanoparticle with a shell that
includes both histone and Cremophor EL. Included here are images of three Western
blots (left) showing suppression of P-catenin, PLK1, and Survivin using nanoparticles
loaded with the aiRNA of various concentrations. On the right side is a chart showing
analytical data of the nanoparticles.
[0049]       Figure 21 illustrates in vivo gene silencing effect achieved through
delivering aiRNA using a magnesium phosphate-based nanoparticle with a shell that
includes both histone and Cremophor EL.
[0050]       Figure 22 includes four Western blot images showing in vitro gene
silencing effect achieved through delivering aiRNA using a magnesium phosphate
based nanoparticle with a shell that includes both histone and Cremophor EL at
various time points during storage. A chart summarizing particle sizes and charges of
the nanoparticles during storage is also included.
[0051]       Figure 23 includes a Northern blot image (left) showing resistance to
nuclease digestion of aiRNA loaded onto a magnesium phosphate-based nanoparticle
with a shell that includes both protamine and Cremophor EL. A chart showing
analytical data of the nanoparticles is also included on the right.
[0052]       Figure 24 illustrates in vitro gene silencing effect achieved through
delivering aiRNA using a magnesium phosphate-based nanoparticle with a shell that
includes both protamine and Cremophor EL. Included here are images of three
Western blots showing suppression of P-catenin using nanoparticles loaded with the

                                              11
aiRNA where the specific steps for coating the nanoparticles as well as the
nanoparticle concentrations were varied.
[0053]       Figure 25 shows data characterizing a magnesium phosphate-based
nanoparticle with a shell that includes both protamine and Cremophor EL in
comparison to the same nanoparticle except with the addition of cyclodextrin in the
shell. Size distribution of nanoparticles of the "K7" composition (MgP with 5x
protamine and 5% Cremophor EL) is also presented in the lower graph.
[0054]       Figure 26 compares in vivo effects on xenografted tumor (SW480)
between an intravenous (i.v.) and an oral (p.o.) formulation for aiRNA (targeting
catenin) carried by magnesium phosphate-based nanoparticle with a shell that
includes both protamine and Cremophor EL ("K7" nanoparticles).
[0055]       Figure 27 illustrates in vivo effects on tumor by intravenous (i.v.)
formulations for aiRNA (targeting 0-catenin) carried by magnesium phosphate-based
nanoparticle with a shell that includes (1) both histone Cremophor EL ("V13"
nanoparticles); or (2) protamine and Cremophor EL ("K7" nanoparticles).
[0056]       Figure 28 illustrates data from further in vivo studies for effective anti
tumor regimen with intravenous (i.v.) formulations for aiRNA (targeting 0-catenin,
Survivin, and PLK1) carried by "K7" nanoparticles in SW480 cells.
[0057]       Figure 29 illustrates data from further in vivo studies for effective anti
tumor regimen with intravenous (i.v.) formulations for aiRNA (targeting 0-catenin,
Survivin, and PLK1) carried by "K7" nanoparticles in mice transfected with human
pancreatic cancer tumor xenograft.
[0058]       Figure 30 illustrates data from in vivo studies for the most effective
protamine concentration in the K7 formulation.
[0059]       Figure 31 illustrates data from in vivo studies for any therapeutic effect
brought by the addition to cyclodextran in the K7 formulation.
[0060]       Figure 32 illustrates data from in vivo studies for any therapeutic effect
brought by the addition to cyclodextran and Labrafil in the K7 formulation. 2'-O-Me
iRNAs were used here.
                              DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0061]       All references cited herein are incorporated herein by reference in their
entirety to the extent allowed by applicable laws and for all purposes to the same
extent as if each individual publication or patent or patent application is specifically

                                            12
and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference in its entirety for all
purposes. To the extent publications and patents or patent applications incorporated
by reference contradict the disclosure including definitions contained in the present
specification, the specification is intended to supersede and/or take precedence over
any such contradictory material.
[0062]      Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein
have the same meaning as is commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art
to which this invention belongs.
[0063]      As used herein, the singular form "a", "an", and "the" include plural
references unless the context clearly dictate otherwise. For example, the term "a cell"
includes a plurality of cells including mixtures thereof.
[0064]      As used herein, "about" refers to a numeric value, including, for example,
whole numbers, fractions, and percentages, whether or not explicitly indicated. The
term "about" generally refers to a range of numerical values (e.g., +/-5-10% of the
recited value) that one of ordinary skill in the art would consider equivalent to the
recited value (e.g., having the same function or result). In some instances, the term
"about" may include numerical values that are rounded to the nearest significant
figure.
[0065]      As used herein, the term "clinically compatible" refers to the characteristic
of a composition or formula that can be prepared and readily administered to patients
with sufficient safety above applicable regulatory requirements.
[0066]      As used herein, "encapsulated", "embedded" "entrapped" or
"incorporated" and their derivative terms refer to being complexed, encased, bonded
with, coated with, layered with or enclosed by a substance. Thus, a substance or agent
encapsulated in a particle means the substance or agent is incorporated into the
particle structure, or coated/attached to the particle surface, or both.
[0067]      The terms "isolated" or "purified" as used herein refer to a material that is
substantially or essentially free from components that normally accompany it in its
native state. Purity and homogeneity are typically determined using analytical
chemistry techniques such as polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis or high performance
liquid chromatography.
[0068]      As used herein, the term "subject" refers to any animal (e.g., a mammal),
including, but not limited to humans, non-human primates, rodents, and the like,

                                            13
which is to be the recipient of a particular treatment. Typically, the terms "subject"
and "patient" are used interchangeably herein in reference to a human subject.
[0069]      Terms such as "treating" or "treatment" or "to treat" or "alleviating" or "to
alleviate" as used herein refer to both (1) therapeutic measures that cure, slow down,
lessen symptoms of, and/or halt progression of a diagnosed pathologic condition or
disorder and (2) prophylactic or preventative measures that prevent or slow the
development of a targeted pathologic condition or disorder. Thus those in need of
treatment include those already with the disorder; those prone to have the disorder;
and those in whom the disorder is to be prevented.
[0070]      Magnesium plays important roles in many cellular functions in
mammalians. It is the fourth most abundant mineral in the human body. It is needed
for more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body and helps maintain strong bones,
normal muscle and nerve functions, and a regular heart rhythm. It also participates in
carbohydrate metabolism and protein synthesis. And its deficiency may result in
many symptoms and diseases, e.g., hyperexcitability, dizziness, muscle cramps,
muscle weakness, fatigue, and diabetes.
[0071]      The human body normally absorbs magnesium through dietary intake and
about 50% of total body magnesium is used to build bones. The vast majority of the
other half is found in cells of body tissues and organs with about 1% in blood.
According to the Food and Nutrition Board at the Institute of Medicine, part of
National Academies, the Recommend Dietary Allowances (RDA) for an adult male is
at or above 400 mg/day, and for an adult non-pregnant female is at or above 310
mg/day. Close to 60% of the U.S. population do not meet the U.S. RDA for dietary
intake of magnesium, according to a 2009 study by the Community Nutrition
Mapping Project. Therefore, magnesium and many magnesium ions are not only safe,
biocompatible and absorbable by the human body, but also provide much needed
nutrition.
[0072]      Magnesium salts produce divalent cations Mg2", and as inorganic particles,
are not subjected to microbial attacks and have good storage stability. They can form
complexes with macromolecules as well as small molecules and transport across cell
membrane via ion channel mediated endocytosis.
[0073]      Accordingly, the present invention provides:

                                             14
[0074]       A. Nanoparticles Based on Magnesium-salt And Encapsulated with
Medically Useful Agent
[0075]       In a basic form, the invention can be characterized as providing a
nanoparticle that includes a biodegradable and clinically compatible core comprising
a magnesium salt, where the nanoparticle encapsulates a medically useful agent.
[0076]       The core is generally and substantially spherical in shape, meaning it is
substantially round or oval in cross-sections and includes particles that do not have
faceted and are substantially smooth or that have facets. The core may be faceted or
angular and still falls within what is contemplated by the present invention.
[00771         The magnesium salt useful in the present invention are preferably
inorganic magnesium salt, e.g., magnesium phosphate, but can be organic in some
embodiments as well, e.g., magnesium organophosphate. Magnesium phosphate
(sometimes abbreviated as "MgP" herein) can mean magnesium phosphate tribasic
(Mg 3 (PO 4) 2 ), magnesium phosphate dibasic or dimagnesium phosphate (MgHPO 4 ), or
monomagnesium phosphate (Mg(H 2 PO 4 )2 ), or a combination of any of the above.
Magnesium phosphate dissolves better in acidic conditions. Compared to an aqueous
environment where the pH is about 7.0, solubility of magnesium phosphate increases
in a solution where the pH value is between 6.0 and 7.0, even further when pH is
below 6.0, and even further more when pH is below 5.0. And other one or more
magnesium salts that exhibit similar solubility increases in an acidic condition can be
also used, either instead of or in addition to, the magnesium phosphate for purpose of
the present invention.
[0078]       The medically useful agent encapsulated in the nanoparticle of the
invention, for delivery to a target site, can be a biologically active macromolecule or a
small molecule. It can be a therapeutic, a drug or a diagnostic agent. Examples of
diagnostic agents include imaging contrast agents that enable the visualization of the
site of drug delivery.
[0079]        Generally speaking, the medically useful agent useful in the present
invention can be a nucleic acid, a protein or peptide, a polysaccharide, a carbohydrate,
a lipid, a small molecule or a combination of any of the above. The agent could be
one or more macromolecules that have been conjugated or otherwise chemically
modified to change their solubility, charge profile, stability, size, shape, and so on.
The nucleic acid may be a DNA (e.g., an antisense DNA), an RNA, a DNA-RNA
hybrid, a PNA, and an aptamer. In an embodiment, the RNA includes aiRNA. In

                                           15
another embodiment, the RNA includes siRNA. In one embodiment, the nanoparticle
of the invention encapsulates a mixture of aiRNA and siRNA. In one feature, the
aiRNA and/or siRNA targets at least an RNA that either encodes a protein or
regulates a part of a biological pathway implicated in a mammalian disease. In an
alternate embodiment, the protein or peptide is an antibody or an antibody fragment.
[0080]      Many drugs can be readily incorporated into the nanoparticles of the
invention. Examples of these include and are not limited to: insulin, a growth
hormone, a steroid, an interferon, an anti-cancer drug, an antibiotic, an anti-viral drug,
a therapeutic antibody, an anti-clotting agent such as heparin, and so on. As used
herein, the terms "cancer" and "cancerous" refer to or describe the physiological
condition in mammals in which a population of cells are characterized by unregulated
cell growth.
[0081]      In an embodiment, the medically useful agent useful in the present
invention is an energy conductor suitable for hyperthermia or hypothermia therapies
including laser ablation or the like.
[0082]      The medically useful agent can be inside the core, on the surface of the
core, or both. The core can be solid with a substantially smooth surface, or porous
with a surface dotted with openings. The core can be coated or naked. When the
surface of the core is coated with a material, that material forms a coating that is
termed a "shell" in this specification. The shell can be porous and does not have to
surround or enclose the entire core surface, although it certainly does in some
embodiments. There may be multiple layers of shells around a core.
[0083]      In addition to the magnesium salt, the core can further include calcium
phosphate, another bioabsorbable material that has been used as the core material for
nanostructures. See Khosravi-Darani, K. et al. Acta Medica Iranica (2010) 48(3): 133
 141.
[0084]      When the additives are coated or adsorbed onto the core surface, a shell
forms around the core. Besides helping reduce or maintain the nanoparticle size,
preserving or modulating the charge of the nanoparticle as described above,
components of the optional shell may also serve other important purposes. In general,
the shell protects the core and its payload from lysosome, enzymatic, as well as
DNase or RNase degradation, prolongs its circulation in the blood, and helps achieve
time-controlled release of the payload. See, e.g., Li, J. et al. J ControlRelease (2010)
 142(3): 416-421. The addition of some, preferably biodegradable, polymers, e.g.,

                                             16
PEG or a nucleic acid, helps keep the particle size small and obtains good colloidal
stability through their steric effect. The PEG may have a molecular weight from about
500 daltons to about 20,000 daltons, e.g., about 500, 1000, 5000, 10,000, 15,000, and
20,000 daltons.
[0085]       In one feature of the present invention, one or more surfactants are coated
or adsorbed onto the surface of the nanoparticle core. Surprisingly, surfactants
contributed greatly in achieving the goal of reducing and maintaining the size of the
nanoparticles. For delivering a medically usefully agent in a biophysical environment,
the average size of the nanoparticles is preferably between about 5 nm and about 200
nm, and more preferably between about 5 nm and about 100, 80, or even 60 nm in
order to be able to pass through certain biological barriers yet without being filtered
out immediately from the blood stream. In some embodiments of the present
invention, surfactant additives have reduced particle sizes not only to the ranges
recited above but further down to the range between about 5 nm and about 50 nm, or
even further to less than about 20 nm or 15 nm, a great technical challenge to all
makers of nanoparticles. In various embodiments of the present invention, the
surfactant additive is nonionic, for example, an alcohol such as a fatty alcohol, stearyl
alcohol, cetyl alcohol, cetostearyl alcohol and oleyl alcohol. In a preferred
embodiment, the surfactant is Cremophor EL @ (generally referred herein as
"Cremophor"), Tween@-20 or -80 (also known as polysorbate-20 or -80, generally
referred herein as " Tween" sometimes), Solutol@ HS 15, and/or Triton.
[0086]       Other potential additives that can be part of the shell of the nanoparticle of
the present invention include: aiRNA and/or siRNA, protein or peptide (e.g., albumin
or its derivative, and preferably, protamine and/or histone), lipid (e.g., cholesterol, or
phospholipids), carbohydrate, excipient, and a targeting ligand such as a cell-type
specific, tissue-specific targeting ligand or homing ligand (e.g., a ligand for a cell
surface marker, an antibody or an antibody fragment, nanobody). Such ligand helps
direct the nanoparticle to specific target tissue or cell (e.g., cancer cells). In one
embodiment, the targeting ligand is anisamide, a sigma-I receptor ligand, which can
be combined with a PEG, and tethered to the nanoparticle of the invention to target
tumor cells. See Guo J. et al. Biomaterials (2012) 33(31): 7775-7784.
[0087]       Another optional additive to a nanoparticle of present invention is a cell
penetrating peptide that helps facilitate cellular intake of the nanoparticle. A typical
cell-penetrating peptide contains an amino acid sequence that either contains relative

                                             17
abundance of positively charged amino acids (polycatonic), e.g., polyarginine and
polylysine, or an alternating pattern of polar/charged amino acids and non-polar,
hydrophobic amino acids (amphipathic), or a derivative or mimetic of a naturally
occurring cell penetrating peptide, such as HIV Tat.
[0088]       Accordingly, referring to FIG. 1, in an illustrative embodiment of the
invention, a nanoparticle 10 includes a substantially spherical core 20. The core 20
substantially consists of only a magnesium salt, e.g., magnesium phosphate. In one
embodiment, it consists of substantially pure magnesium phosphate only. The surface
of the core 20 is coated with a layer 30 of the medically useful agent 15 (e.g., aiRNA
and/or siRNA), forming a first shell around the core 20. The adsorption of the
medically useful agent 15 may help stop nanoparticle growth or aggregation, thereby
keeping its size small.
[0089]       Optionally, a second layer 40 of one or more additives forms an outer shell
surrounding the first shell 30. The exemplary additive illustrated here is a lipid 45, but
can be any of the additives described in this specification, e.g. a surfactant.
[0090]       Referring to FIG. 2, in another illustrative embodiment of the invention, a
nanoparticle 10 includes a core 20 where the medically useful agent 15 (e.g., aiRNA
and/or siRNA) is encapsulated inside a magnesium salt (e.g., magnesium phosphate).
An optional shell 30 around the core 20 includes one or more additives. The
exemplary additives illustrated in the figure here include albumin 43, PEG 47 and
PEG with a targeting ligand 49, but can be any of the additives described in this
specification, e.g., one or more lipids, biodegradable polymers, surfactants, proteins
and excipients.
[0091]       Referring now to FIG. 3, in another illustrative embodiment of the
invention, a nanoparticle 10 includes a core 20 where the medically useful agent 15
(e.g., aiRNA and/or siRNA) is encapsulated inside a mixture of a magnesium salt
(e.g., magnesium phosphate) and calcium phosphate 22. In the illustrated version, the
core 20 is naked, but can have one or more optional shells around it. Calcium
phosphate (sometimes abbreviated as "CaP" herein) can mean Ca 3 (PO 4 ) 2 , CaHPO 4, or
Ca(H 2PO 4 ) 2 , or a combination of any of the above.
[0092]       Referring now to FIG. 4, in yet another illustrative embodiment of the
invention, a nanoparticle 10 includes a core 20 where the medically useful agent 15
(e.g., aiRNA and/or siRNA) is encapsulated inside a mixture of a magnesium salt

                                            18
(e.g., magnesium phosphate) and a biocompatible polymer 24. In the illustrated
version, the core 20 is surround by an optional shell 30 formed by an exemplary
targeting ligand 49. The shell 30, in this exemplary version, is rather porous; such is
also the case for the core 20.
[0093]      The invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising the
nanoparticles described herein and a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, carrier, or
diluent. Suitable carriers and their formulations are known in the art and are described
in Remington, The Science and Practice ofPharmacy,20th Ed. Mack Publishing
(2000). The pharmaceutical composition may be formulated in the form of liquid,
capsule, tablet, powder, and aerosol; and may be formulated in the form suitable for
intravenous, intramuscular, intradermal, oral delivery, mucosal delivery, topical, or
delivery to an ocular surface, etc. The composition may include other components,
such as buffers, preservatives, nonionic surfactants, solubilizing agents, stabilizing
agents, emollients, lubricants and tonicity agents. The composition may be formulated
to achieve controlled release for the macromolecules.
[0094]      Each carrier must be "acceptable" in the sense of being compatible with
the other ingredients of the formulation and not injurious to the patient. Some
examples of materials which can serve as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers
include: sugars, such as lactose, glucose and sucrose; starches, such as corn starch and
potato starch; cellulose, and its derivatives, such as sodium carboxymethyl cellulose,
ethyl cellulose and cellulose acetate; powdered tragacanth; malt; gelatin; talc;
excipients, such as cocoa butter and suppository waxes; oils, such as peanut oil,
cottonseed oil, safflower oil, sesame oil, olive oil, corn oil and soybean oil; glycols,
such as propylene glycol; polyols, such as glycerin, sorbitol, mannitol and
polyethylene glycol; esters, such as ethyl oleate and ethyl laurate; agar; buffering
agents, such as magnesium hydroxide and aluminum hydroxide; alginic acid;
pyrogen-free water; isotonic saline; Ringer's solution; ethyl alcohol; phosphate buffer
solutions; and other non-toxic compatible substances employed in pharmaceutical
formulations. Wetting agents, emulsifiers and lubricants, such as sodium lauryl
sulfate, magnesium stearate, and polyethylene oxide-polypropylene oxide copolymer
as well as coloring agents, release agents, coating agents, sweetening, flavoring and
perfuming agents, preservatives and antioxidants can also be present in the
compositions of the present invention.

                                             19
[0095]       B. Methods of Making the Nanoparticles of the Invention
[0096]       Magnesium salt-based nanoparticles can be prepared through either a
double emulsion process or nano-precipitation process, or adapted from other well
known processes for making nanoparticles.
[0097]       Exemplary Method I.:
[0098]       Referring to FIG. 5, in Step-1, a first emulsion is prepared by first mixing
desired amount of a medically useful agent, e.g., aiRNA solution, and a magnesium
salt aqueous solution (e.g., MgCl 2 , or magnesium nitrate), and then adding the
aqueous solution to an organic solution with or without a surfactant (e.g.,
Cyclohexane/Igepal CO-520 (71/29, v/v) under vigorous stirring to form a well
dispersed micro- nano-emulsion. To make a calcium-based core, or to add calcium to
the core, either replace MgCl 2 with CaCl 2 or simply add CaCl 2 . The mixture is further
incubated at room temperature. The organic solution mixture can be prepared by
mixing cyclohexane/Igepal CO-520 solution (71/29 v/v) with continuous spinning on
a magnetic stirrer to ensure mixing.
[0099]       A second emulsion is prepared by adding a phosphate salt (e.g. disodium
hydrogen phosphate (Na 2HPO4 ,) or, diammonium hydrogen phosphate) aqueous
solution under vigorous stirring to an organic solution with or without a surfactant
(e.g., Cyclohexane/Igepal Co-520 (71/29, v/v) to form a well-dispersed micro- or
nano-emulsion. The mixture is further incubated at room temperature.
[00100]      The second emulsion is then added very slowly, e.g. drop-by-drop, into the
first emulsion under vigorous stirring, forming a combination mixture. The ratio
between the first emulsion and the second emulsion in the combination mixture is
critical for achieving desirable particle size, and in various embodiments, is about 10
20 versus 1. The combination mixture is further incubated at room temperature for a
certain time depending on their desired sizes.
[00101]      Then, in Step-2, a solvent (e.g., absolute ethanol) is added to wash the
nanoparticles yielded from the above step. Supernatant is removed through a
centrifuging process. The yielded nanoparticles, each with a core consisting of
substantially only an inorganic magnesium salt (MgP), are dried under low-pressure
conditions or simply air-dried.
[00102]      In the coating step (Step-3 as illustrated), a shell is formed around the
nanoparticles after they are suspended and combined with selected ingredients for the
shell such as lipids, biodegradable polymers, proteins and/or surfactant. For example,

                                            20
to make a protein/surfactant-based shell around the nanoparticle of the invention, a
solution of proteins with or without surfactants (e.g., 1Ox (w/w in relation to the load)
histone and 1% surfactant (v/v)) is first prepared in nuclease-free water (or, saline,
human albumin solution (e.g. 10%)) and incubated at room temperature. The solution
is added to dry tubes of the MgP cores loaded with aiRNA, and then mixed
completely. The mixture is then sonicated, e.g., using a water bath sonicator, to
achieve a nano-suspension to prevent aggregation. The suspension is, optionally, pH
adjusted to 7.0, incubated at room temperature, and centrifuged for its supernatant to
be collected, analyzed and used for therapeutic administration. The nanoparticle
preparation can also be formulated per administration route or purpose, as is well
known in the art.
[00103]     Nanoparticles with shells that are lipid-based or polymer-based can be
prepared in similar fashions. For example, to make a lipid-based shell, the desired
lipid content can be mixed in appropriate ratios and made into a dry film by using a
rotavap for 3-4 hours. The necessary volume of phosphate buffer saline is then added
to reconstitute the dry film. After the desired volume of the solution is added to dry
tubes of the MgP cores loaded with aiRNA and mixed completely, follow the same
sonication step for 5 minutes at room temperature and the centrifugation step for 30
seconds.
[00104]     Exemplary Method II:
[00105]     In an alternative embodiment, the medically useful agent, e.g., aiRNA, is
added to magnesium salt-based nanoparticles after the nanoparticles are first formed
as described above except without the medically useful agent in the first emulsion.
One or more selected materials (e.g., albumin or its derivatives, surfactant,
cyclodextrin or amino acids) for the shell are also added similar to ways described
above to the nanoparticles.
[00106]     C. Methods of Using the Nanoparticles of the Invention
[00107]     The present invention also provides a method of treating a disease in a
mammalian subject. The method includes administering to the mammalian subject a
therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition of the invention.
[00108]     The invention also provides a method for delivering an active and
medically useful or medical agent into a mammalian subject. The method includes
administering to the mammalian subject a plurality of nanoparticles, each being a

                                             21
nanoparticle of the invention. Besides therapeutics, the active agent can also be an
imaging agent such as one useful for radiopharmaceutical imaging.
[00109]      Administration of the composition of the invention may be by any means
known in the art, including: orally, intravenously, subcutaneously, via inhalation,
intraarterially, intramuscularly, intracardially, intraventricularly, parenteral,
intrathecally, and intraperitoneally. Administration may be systemic, e.g.
intravenously, or localized.
[00110]      In some embodiments, the nanoparticles of the pharmaceutical
composition include an enteric coating. Enterically coated particles may be suitably
administered by oral route.
[00111]      The particles of the invention may be used to deliver the medically useful
agents to a mucosal surface for mucosal immune protection, mucosal vaccine
delivery, or mucosal drug delivery. Specifically, therapeutic agents may be delivered
via the nanoparticles of the invention to mucosal surface in the respiratory tracts to
treat a respiratory disease, the ocular surface to treat an ocular disease, the
gastrointestinal tracts to treat a gastrointestinal disease. In an embodiment, agents are
delivered via the nanoparticles of the invention topically to treat dermatological
indications. Non-limiting examples of medically useful agents include one or more of
the following: antigenic material, natural immunoenhancing factors, polynucleotide
material encoding immunogenic polypeptides, therapeutic drugs, such as insulin, anti
cancer drugs, or any other composition capable of having a therapeutic effect when
administered to a mucosal surface. The particles may be complexed with any
physiological acceptable excipient and administered through mucosal surfaces, such
as orally, intrapulmonary, nasally, rectally, or ocularly.
[00112]      In a preferred embodiment, nanoparticles of the present invention are
administered orally to a mammalian subject to deliver an active agent and/or to treat a
condition or disease. Oral deliver using nanoparticles face particular challenges as
whatever formulation of the particles need to not only protect the active agent from
strong enzymatic digestion in the digestive system but also get the agent absorbed into
the circulatory system. Various formulations of the nanoparticles of the present
invention have been proven to have therapeutic efficacy, e.g., substantial gene
silencing effect, when administered orally to a mammalian subject.
[00113]      In an embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition of the invention is
used to treat oncological indications as well as diseases associated with the pathology

                                           22
of liver and hepatocytes. In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition of
the invention is used to treat metabolic diseases, e.g., those associated with the liver.
[00114]     In another embodiment, the pharmaceutical composition of the invention
is used to treat colon cancer and other oncological indications.
[00115]     D. Examples
[00116]     Example 1: GFP transfection using nanoparticleswith magnesium
phosphate cores
[00117]     Nanoparticles were prepared using the double-emulsion process described
above. Specifically, 100 gL of 500 mM MgCl 2 was mixed with plasmid DNA coded
for the green fluorescence protein (GFP) before being added to 5 mL of
Cyclohexane/Igepal CO-520 (71/29, v/v) under vigorous stirring. The second
emulsion was prepared from 100 gL of 25 mM Na 2HPO 4. And after the resulting
MgP cores loaded with DNA were dried, a nuclease-free aqueous solution withIOx
(w/w in relation to the plasmid DNA) histone and 1% surfactant (v/v) was added to
them. The resulting mixture produced nanoparticles with a clinically compatible core
consisting of a magnesium salt as carrier for the agent, in this case, GFP-coding DNA,
where the core is further surrounded by a shell or coating that has both a surfactant
and a small peptide (histone). The carrier material of the core consisted of only a
substantially pure magnesium salt and no other material in this particular example.
[00118]      Analytical data including the size and zeta potential distribution of the
nanoparticles loaded with GFP plasmid is shown in FIG. 6. For the six records shown,
the average diameter including the shell ranges from about 10 to about 25 nm, and the
average zeta potential ranges from about -6.0 to about -18.0 mV.
[00119]     Fluorescence results are shown in FIG. 7 where photos in the lower row
show green fluorescence spots, indicating successful GFP expression 48 hours after
the transfection using the nanoparticle of the present invention as an in vitro delivery
vehicle in a SW480 cell line.
[00120]     Example 2: aiRNA delivery using gold nanoparticlesresults in gene
silencing in vitro
[00121]     Referring to FIG. 8, which illustrates the steps for conjugating aiRNA to a
gold nanoparticle according to an embodiment of the present invention. First,
commercially available gold nanoparticles were first PEGylated, i.e., functionalized

                                              23
with PEG chains through surface modification. The size distribution and zeta
potential distribution of the modified gold nanoparticles are shown in FIG. 9, along
with a schematic drawing of the modified nanoparticle. The PEGylated gold
nanoparticles were about 19 nm in diameter on average. The average zeta potential
for gold nanoparticle was about -8.53 mV before modification and about -7.29 mV
after.
[00122]      Referring back to FIG. 8, after the gold nanoparticles had been PEGylated,
they were further modified in order to form a disulfide bond with the medically useful
agent, aiRNA. First, the PEGylated gold nanoparticle was cross-linked with
succinimidyl 3-(2-pyridyldithio)propionate (SPDP) molecules, making it capable to
form a disulfide bond. Next, the nanoparticle was introduced to a modified aiRNA
where its thiolate was exposed. As a result, the aiRNA became loaded onto the gold
nanoparticle with the formation of a new disulfide bond between the two. Details of
this step are further illustrated in FIG. 10.
[00123]      Referring now to FIG. 11, to release the conjugated aiRNA from the gold
nanoparticle, the disulfide bond was reduced using DTT. A ribogreen assay was used
to quantify the concentration of aiRNA released following the reduction of the
disulfide bond and C was about 4.12 - 5.2 pig/ml of aiRNA release from the gold
nanoparticle.
[00124]      Figure 12 shows delivery efficacy of the gold nanoparticle prepared using
the method described above in this example. An aiRNA of the following sequence
and designed to silence the -Catenin expression was conjugated to gold nanoparticles
as described above:
[001251          5'-CACAAGAUGGAAUUU-3'                  (SEQ ID NO:1)
         3'-AAUAAAUUCCAUCUUGUGAUC-5'                    (SEQ ID NO:2)
[00126]      A solution containing 1Ox histone (w/w in relation to the aiRNA) and 1%
(v/v) Tween-80 was added to the gold nanoparticles to coat them with a shell. As
shown in the figure, the loaded nanoparticles showed significantly more gene
silencing effect in vitro against the target, P-Catenin, than unloaded nanoparticles.
[00127]      Example 3: aiRNA delivery using magnesium phosphate nanoparticles
with polymer-basedshell achieves gene silencing in vitro
[00128]      MgP cores loaded with aiRNA were prepared largely using the double
emulsion process described above. Specifically:

                                            24
[00129]      In each of vials A and B, 5 mL of cyclohexane/Igepal CO-520 solution
(71/29 v/v) was prepared from reagents respectively available from EMD and Sigma.
Meanwhile, aiRNA was dispersed in 1x RNAse-free buffer to make the desired
concentration (e.g., about 5 tg/[tL). A volume of aiRNA (e.g., about 50 [ig) was
mixed with 100 ptL of 500 mM MgCl 2 . Then, the MgCl 2-aiRNA solution was added
drop-wise to the oil/surfactant solution in vial A to form a well-dispersed emulsion
without reverse micro-emulsion.
[00130]      In vial B, 100 iL of 25 mM Na 2HPO 4 (pH=9) was added drop-wise to the
oil/surfactant solution. The contents of vials A and B were then mixed and stirred for
30 minutes at room temperature. Afterwards, the contents were transferred into 10
centrifuge tubes (1.5 mL) and centrifuged for 30 minutes at 13,000g. Supernatant was
discarded and the pellet was washed with absolute ethanol (1 mL) twice. After the
alcohol was removed, the resulting pellet was air-dried for 3-4 hours.
[00131]      A polymer-based shell was coated onto the MgP nanoparticle cores
already loaded with aiRNA. Specifically, biodegradable Polymers, Peg(5k)-Poly-L
Lysine (1OU), Poly-L-Arginine (50U) were coated onto the cores at a polymer ratio
of 2.5:1 (PLL: PLR) & a complex ratio of 2.5:1 (polymer: aiRNA).
[00132]      Referring to FIG. 13, physical and pharmacological data for the resulting
nanoparticles are shown on the right side. For instance, average size of the
nanoparticles was about 70 nm (and about 80 nm in other experiments, but certainly
below 200 nm or 100 nm) and the surface charge was about +25 mV. The
nanoparticles of the present invention exhibited good plasma stability, and cellular
uptake and endosomal escape (data not shown) were both achieved.
[00133]      Because in vitro effect has always been difficult to observe with
nanoparticle vehicles, it was particularly encouraging to observe strong gene silencing
effect (80-90%) as shown on the left side of FIG. 13. The cell lines tested included
SW480 and DLD1 cells (human colon and colorectal cancer cell lines). The protein
expression targeted by the aiRNA was survivin, and the aiRNA has the following
sequence (as is true for other examples where survivin was targeted unless noted
otherwise):
[001341      5'- GAUCAACAUUUUCAA -3'                           (SEQ ID NO: 3)
         3'- AAUUUGAAAAUGUUGAUCUCC                 -5'         (SEQ ID NO: 4)

                                            25
[00135]     Example 4: aiRNA delivery using magnesium phosphate nanoparticles
with albumin-basedshell achieves gene silencing in vitro
[00136]     MgP cores loaded with aiRNA were prepared using the double-emulsion
process described in the previous Example. A protein/peptide-based shell was coated
onto the MgP nanoparticle cores already loaded with aiRNA. Specifically, human
serum albumin (10%) was coated onto the cores.
[00137]     Physical and pharmacological data for the resulting nanoparticles are
shown in FIG. 14. For instance, average size of the nanoparticles was about 25-35 nm
and the surface charge was about -8 to -12 mV. The nanoparticles exhibited good
plasma stability, and cellular uptake and endosomal escape (data not shown) were
both achieved.
[00138]     Gene silencing effect (75-85%) was observed as summarized on the left
side of FIG. 14. The cell lines tested included SW480. The expression of two proteins
were targeted here by the aiRNA:      -Catenin, and PLK1 (polo-like kinase 1),
respectively. PLK1 is a proto-oncogene implicated in a variety of cancers including
colon and lung cancers, The aiRNA sequences used to target -Catenin were the same
as described above as SEQ ID NOS: 1 and 2. And the aiRNA sequences used to target
PLK1 are as follows (as is true for other examples where PLK1 was targeted unless
noted otherwise):
[001391      5'- GAUCACCCUCCUUAA -3'                   (SEQ ID NO: 5)
        3'- AAUUUAAGGAGGGUGAUCUUC                  -5' (SEQ ID NO: 6)
[00140]     Example 5: 2'-0-Me-aiRNA delivery using magnesium phosphate
nanoparticleswith albumin-basedshell achieves gene silencing in vitro and in vivo
[00141]     Oligonucleotides with a methyl group at the 2'-OH residue of the ribose
molecule can be advantageous in various applications. Among other things, 2'-O-Me
RNAs show the same behavior as DNA, but are more stable as they are protected
against nuclease degradation. They also form more stable hybrids with
complementary RNA strands compared to DNA or RNA.
[00142]     Nanoparticles with a core using only magnesium phosphate and further
coated with an albumin-based shell were used to successfully deliver 2'-O-Me
aiRNAs to suppress targeted gene expression both in vitro and in vivo. The data is
presented in FIG. 15. The aiRNA sequences used to target P-Catenin were the same as

                                            26
described above as SEQ ID NOS: 1 and 2 except nucleotides at certain selected
positions in the sequence were modified with a 2'-OH methyl group.
[00143]     Example 6: aiRNA delivery using magnesium phosphate nanoparticles
with histone-basedshell achieves gene silencing in vitro
[00144]     MgP cores loaded with aiRNA were prepared using the double-emulsion
process described in the previous Examples. A protein/peptide-based shell was then
coated onto the MgP nanoparticle cores already loaded with aiRNA. Specifically, 7x
human histone mixed with 5x calf histone (w/w, in relation to the aiRNA load)
[CORRECT?] were coated onto the cores.
[00145]     Physical and pharmacological data for the resulting nanoparticles are
shown in FIG. 16. For instance, average size of the nanoparticles was about 15-25 nm
and the surface charge was about +10 to +20 mV. The nanoparticles exhibited good
plasma stability, and cellular uptake and endosomal escape (data not shown) were
both achieved.
[00146]     Gene silencing effect (65-75%) was observed as summarized on the left
side of FIG. 16. The cell lines tested included SW480. The expression of -Catenin
was targeted here by the aiRNA.
[00147]     Example 7: aiRNA delivery using magnesium phosphate nanoparticles
with histone-and-small-peptide-basedshell achieves gene silencing in vitro and in
vivo
[00148]     Nanoparticle cores consisting of MgP and loaded with aiRNA were
prepared using the double-emulsion process described above.
[00149]     A protein-and-small-peptide-based shell was coated onto the nanoparticle
cores that were loaded with aiRNA. Specifically, 5x calf histone mixed with 3x small
peptides (RGD) were coated onto the cores. Arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD)
peptide is a tripeptide and can be used for cellular recognition akin to a targeting
ligand.
[00150]     Physical and pharmacological data for the resulting nanoparticles are
shown in a chart in FIG. 17. For instance, average size of the nanoparticles was about
15-25 nm and the surface charge was about +10 to +20 mV. The nanoparticles
exhibited good plasma stability, and cellular uptake and endosomal escape (data not
shown) were both achieved.

                                             27
[00151]      Gene silencing effect (80-90%) was observed in vitro as summarized on
the left side of FIG. 17. The cell lines tested included SW480. The expression of 0
Catenin and PLK1 was targeted by respective aiRNAs. Both cyclic ("V7") and linear
RGD ("V8") were tested.
[00152]      Significant gene silencing effect was observed also in vivo as summarized
on the right side of FIG. 18 (only data for nanoparticles coated with linear RGD is
shown here). Tumor xenograft SW480 was tested on mice. The expression of
Catenin and PLK1 was targeted by respective aiRNAs.
[00153]      Example 8: aiRNA delivery using magnesium phosphate nanoparticles
with shells including differing surfactants
[00154]      Nanoparticle cores consisting of MgP and loaded with aiRNA were
prepared using the double-emulsion process described above. As shown in FIG. 19,
for the shell/coating around the core, besides histone (5x), various surfactants were
used including Cremophor EL, Tween-80, Tween-20, and Triton-X100 ("V13-16,"
respectively).
[00155]      Results on in vitro gene silencing against P-Catenin were shown side-by
side with nanoparticles loaded with cyclic and linear RGD in the shell with histone.
While the results were not uniform, varying degree of gene silencing could be seen.
[00156]      Example 9: aiRNA delivery using magnesium phosphate nanoparticles
with histone-and-Cremophor-basedshell achieves gene silencing in vitro and in vivo
[00157]      Nanoparticle cores consisting of MgP and loaded with aiRNA were
prepared using the double-emulsion process described above. A protein-and
surfactant-based shell was coated onto the nanoparticle cores that were loaded with
aiRNA. Specifically, 5x calf histone mixed with 5% Cremophor EL were coated onto
the cores using methods described above.
[00158]      Physical and pharmacological data for the resulting nanoparticles ("V13")
are shown in a chart in FIG. 20. For instance, average size of the nanoparticles was
very small, at about 6-15 nm. Surface charge of the nanoparticles was about +5 to
+12 mV. The nanoparticles exhibited good plasma stability, and cellular uptake and
endosomal escape (data not shown) were both achieved.
[00159]      Gene silencing effect observed in vitro and summarized on the left side of
FIG. 20 was also excellent, reaching an impressive 85-98%. The cell lines tested

                                            28
included SW480. The expression of P-Catenin, PLK1 and Survivin was targeted by
respective aiRNAs. Resulting Western blot images for each targeted protein is shown
on the left side of FIG. 20. The aiRNA sequences used as scramble control are as
follows (as is true for other examples unless noted otherwise):
[001601      5'- GUAGUUAUAGUCGAU -3'                   (SEQ ID NO: 7)
        3'- AACAUCGACUAUAACUACCUG                  -5' (SEQ ID NO: 8)
[00161]      Significant gene silencing effect was observed also in vivo as illustrated in
FIG. 21. Tumor xenograft SW480 was tested on mice. The expression of P-Catenin
was targeted by aiRNA delivered with the magnesium phosphate nanoparticles coated
with histone and Cremophor. As shown in FIG. 21, at Day- 13 after dosing using the
nanoparticles of the invention, significant inhibition on tumor growth was still
evident.
[00162]     This nanoparticle also exhibited enduring stability as illustrated in FIG. 22.
Stored at 4'C, the "V13" nanoparticles largely maintained their original particle size
and charges through the six weeks of time. Efficacy in inducing gene silencing also
remained intact during the six weeks as gel picture taken at various time points show
(FIG. 22). The "V13" nanoparticles also were stable enough to resist nuclease
degradation after being left in 50% mouse plasma for two hours (data not shown).
Various tests have also shown that "V13" nanoparticles can be lyophilized and
reconstituted without significantly compromising their delivery capability or the
efficacy of the medically useful agents they carry.
[00163]     Example 10: aiRNA delivery using magnesium phosphate nanoparticles
with protamine-and-Cremophorbased shell achieves gene silencing in vitro
[00164]     MgP cores loaded with aiRNA were prepared using the double-emulsion
process described in the previous Examples. A protein/surfactant-based shell was
coated onto the MgP nanoparticle cores already loaded with aiRNA. Specifically, 7x
protamine (w/w, in relation to the aiRNA load) mixed with 5% Cremophor were
coated onto the cores.
[00165]     Physical and pharmacological data for the resulting nanoparticles are
shown in FIG. 23. For instance, average size of the nanoparticles was about 9-20 nm
and the surface charge was about +5 to +18 mV. The nanoparticles exhibited good
plasma stability, and cellular uptake and endosomal escape (data not shown) were
both achieved.

                                            29
[00166]     As indicated by the gel picture in FIG. 23, the resulting nanoparticles also
were sufficiently stable to resist nuclease degradation after being left in 50% mouse
plasma for four hours.
[00167]      Gene silencing effect (70-80% in vitro) was observed as summarized on
the top of FIG. 24. The cell lines tested included SW480. The expression of -Catenin
was targeted here by the aiRNA. Steps in adsorbing the coating solution onto the
nanoparticle cores were varied to test the effect on delivery efficacy.
[00168]     Example 11: aiRNA delivery using magnesium phosphate nanoparticles
with protamine-and-Cremophor-basedshell achieves gene silencing in vitro
[00169]     Nanoparticle cores consisting of MgP and loaded with aiRNA were
prepared using the double-emulsion process described above. A protein-and
surfactant-based shell was coated onto the nanoparticle cores that were loaded with
aiRNA. Specifically, a coating solution where 5x calf protamine (w/w in relation to
the aiRNA load) was premixed with 5% Cremophor EL was added to the cores using
methods described above. Optionally, the coating solution was added with 3.5% w/v
hydroxypropyl beta cyclodextrin.
[00170]     Physical and pharmacological data for the resulting nanoparticles ("K7"
for shell formulation with protamine and Cremophor, and "K7C" for the same
formulation with the addition of cyclodextrin) are shown in a chart in FIG. 25. For K7
nanoparticles, mean particle size was about 13-21 nm. Surface charge of the K7
nanoparticles was about +15 to +18 mV. For K7C nanoparticles, mean particle size
was about 13-20 nm. Surface charges of the K7 nanoparticles ranged from about +14
to +16 mV.
[00171]     The nanoparticles also exhibited good plasma stability, specifically,
against human plasma or mice plasma (data not shown).
[00172]      Gene silencing effect using the nanoparticles was observed in vitro in
SW480 cells. Time course profile showed that single dose effect lasted until 72 hours
after the administration for nanoparticles loaded with aiRNA targeting P-Catenin
(data not shown).
[00173]     Various other compositions for the shell around the Mg core could also
achieve gene-silencing effect at least in vitro. These compositions included ones with
various combinations of two surfactants in the shell selected from (data not shown):
Solutol @ HS-15, Tween 20, Tween 80, Triton and Cremophor.

                                            30
[00174      Example 12: Pharmaceuticalformulation based on magnesium phosphate
nanoparticleswith protamine-and-Cremophor-basedshell
[00175]     For K7 nanoparticles described above in Examples 10 and 11 (MgP core
with protamine-and-Cremophor-containing shell), tumor inhibition effected through
intravenous administration is compared with oral administration, as shown in FIG. 26.
Both showed strong clinical effectiveness with both in vivo (FIG. 26) and in vitro data
(not shown).
[00176      Example 13: Pharmaceuticalformulation based on magnesium phosphate
nanoparticleswith Cremophor-and-a-small-protein-based        shell
[00177]     For V13 nanoparticles described above in Example 9 (MgP core with
histone-and-Cremophor-containing shell) and K7 nanoparticles described above in
Examples 10 and 11 (MgP core with protamine-and-Cremophor-containing shell), in
vivo tumor inhibition was effected through intravenous administration (FIG. 27) as
well as through oral administration. Both kinds of nanoparticles showed marked
clinical effectiveness via either route of administration.
[00178      Example 14: aiRNA-lead selection using magnesium phosphate
nanoparticleswith protamine-and-Cremophor-basedshell
[00179]     Using aiRNAs loaded onto K7 nanoparticles, which each has a MgP core
surrounded by a protamine-and-Cremophor-containing shell, selection against various
oncogenes or pro-oncogenes for viable pharmaceutical regimen were conducted in
mice. Using this vehicle, previously tested intravenous (i.v.) formulations were tested
against 0-catenin, Survivin, and PLK1 expressions (FIG. 28). Effective inhibition of
tumor growth was observed with both rapid onset and lasting effects against all three
targets. Similar experiments were conducted in human pancreatic cancer xenograft
with similarly impressive results observed (FIG. 29).
[00180      Example 15: Pharmaceuticaloptimization
[00181]     Further optimization of validated drug formulations were carried out using
nanoparticles with a MgP core. As shown in FIGS. 30-32, adding cyclodextran
(FIG. 31) with or without Labrafil (FIG. 32) further improved pharmaceutical efficacy

                                                  31
of a validated intravenous formulation that surrounds the nanoparticle core with a shell
containing protamine and Cremophor.
[00182]      All numbers expressing quantities of ingredients, reaction conditions, analytical
results and so forth used in the specification and claims are to be understood as being modified
in all instances by the term "about." Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the
numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations that
may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention.
At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to
the scope of the claims, each numerical parameter should be construed in light of the number of
significant digits and ordinary rounding approaches.
[00183]      Modifications and variations of this invention can be made without departing from
its spirit and scope, as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The specific embodiments
described herein are offered by way of example only and are not meant to be limiting in any
way. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only, with a
true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.
[00184]      The term "comprise" and variants of the term such as "comprises" or "comprising"
are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude
any other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation
of the term is required.
[00185]      Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
[00186]      Other embodiments of the invention as described herein are defined in the following
paragraphs:
[00187]      1. A nanoparticle for delivering a medically useful agent comprising: a
biodegradable and clinically compatible core comprising a magnesium salt; and a medically
useful agent.
[00188]      2. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein said magnesium salt is an inorganic
magnesium salt.
[00189]      3. The nanoparticle of paragraph 2 wherein said magnesium salt is magnesium
phosphate.
[00190]      4. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein said magnesium salt is an organic
magnesium salt.
[00191]      5. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein said agent is selected from the group
consisting of a nucleic acid, a protein or peptide, and a small molecule.

                                                  32
[00192]     6. The nanoparticle of paragraph 5 wherein said nucleic acid is selected from the
group consisting of an antisense DNA, an RNA, a DNA-RNA hybrid, a PNA, and an aptamer.
[00193]     7. The nanoparticle of paragraph 6 wherein said RNA comprises aiRNA.
[00194]     8. The nanoparticle of paragraph 6 wherein said RNA comprises a siRNA.
[00195]     9. The nanoparticle of paragraph 7 or 8 wherein said aiRNA or siRNA targets at
least an RNA that either encodes a protein or regulates a part of a biological pathway implicated
in a mammalian disease.
[00196]     10. The nanoparticle of paragraph 5 wherein said protein or peptide is selected from
the group consisting of an antibody and an antibody fragment.
[00197]     11. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein said agent is disposed inside said core.
[00198]     12. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein said agent is disposed on a surface of
said core.
[00199]     13. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein said core further comprises calcium
phosphate.
[00200]     14. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein said core further comprises an additive
selected from the group consisting of a nucleic acid, a protein or peptide, a lipid, a surfactant,
an amino acid, a carbohydrate, a small molecule, and/or a biocompatible polymer.
[00201]     15. The nanoparticle of paragraph 14 wherein said additive is selected from the
group consisting of a targeting ligand, a cell-penetrating peptide, an albumin, an albumin
derivative, a histone, a protamine, Cremophor EL, Solutol, cyclodextrin, RGD tripeptide,
cholesterol, a phospholipid, and polyethylene glycol (PEG).
[00202]     16. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 further comprising a shell around said core
wherein said shell comprises an ingredient selected from the group consisting of a protein or
peptide, a surfactant, a lipid, a ligand, an amino acid, a carbohydrate, a nucleic acid, a small
molecule and a biocompatible polymer.
[00203]     17. The nanoparticle of paragraph 16 wherein said ingredient is selected from the
group consisting of a targeting ligand, a cell-penetrating peptide, an albumin, an albumin
derivative, a histone, a protamine, Cremophor EL, Solutol, cyclodextrin, RGD tripeptide,
cholesterol, a phospholipid, and polyethylene glycol (PEG).
[00204]     18. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein the average diameter of said
nanoparticle is about 200 nanometers or less.
[00205]     19. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein said nanoparticle is more soluble in a
solution with a pH value between about 6.0 and about 7.0 than in one with a pH of about or
above 7.0.

                                                 33
[00206]      20. The nanoparticle of paragraph 19 wherein said nanoparticle is even more soluble
in a solution with an acidic pH equal to or less than about 6.0 than in one with a pH of about or
above 7.0.
[00207]      21. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein said nanoparticle is characterized with
a surface charge between about -30 mV and about +50 mV.
[00208]      22. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein said nanoparticle is characterized with
a surface charge between about -10 mV and about +20 mV.
[00209]      23. The nanoparticle of paragraph 1 wherein said core consists of substantially a
magnesium salt, and one or more medically useful agents.
[00210]      24a. A nanoparticle comprising a core substantially consisting of a magnesium salt,
and a medically useful agent coated on a surface of said core.
[00211]      24b. The nanoparticle of paragraph 23 wherein said magnesium salt is magnesium
phosphate.
[00212]      25. The nanoparticle of paragraph 23 wherein said agent is selected from the group
consisting of a nucleic acid, a protein or peptide, and a small molecule.
[00213]      26. The nanoparticle of paragraph 25 wherein said nucleic acid comprises aiRNA.
[00214]      27. The nanoparticle of paragraph 23 further comprising a shell around said core that
comprises an ingredient selected from the group consisting of a protein or peptide, a surfactant,
a lipid, a ligand, an amino acid, a carbohydrate, a nucleic acid, a small molecule, and a
biocompatible polymer.
[00215]      28. A nanoparticle comprising a core that consists of substantially magnesium
phosphate and one or more medically useful agents disposed inside said core.
[00216]      29. The nanoparticle of paragraph 28 wherein said agent is selected from the group
consisting of a nucleic acid, a protein or peptide, and a small molecule.
[00217]      30. The nanoparticle of paragraph 29 wherein said nucleic acid comprises aiRNA.
[00218]      31. The nanoparticle of paragraph 28 further comprising a shell around said core that
comprises an ingredient selected from the group consisting of a protein or peptide, a surfactant,
a lipid, a ligand, an amino acid, a carbohydrate, a small molecule, a nucleic acid, and a
biocompatible polymer.
[00219]      32. A nanoparticle comprising a core that consists of magnesium phosphate, calcium
phosphate, and one or more medically useful agents.
[00220]      33. The nanoparticle of paragraph 32 wherein said agent is selected from the group
consisting of a nucleic acid, a protein or peptide, and a small molecule.
[00221]      34. The nanoparticle of paragraph 33 wherein said nucleic acid comprises aiRNA.

                                                  34
[00222]     35. The nanoparticle of paragraph 32 further comprising a shell around said core that
comprises an ingredient selected from the group consisting of a protein or peptide, a lipid, a
surfactant, a ligand, an amino acid, a carbohydrate, a small molecule, a nucleic acid, and a
biocompatible polymer.
[00223]     36. A nanoparticle comprising a core that comprises magnesium phosphate, a
biocompatible additive, and a medically useful agent.
[00224]     37. The nanoparticle of paragraph 36 wherein said agent is selected from the group
consisting of a nucleic acid, a protein or peptide, and a small molecule.
[00225]     38. The nanoparticle of paragraph 37 wherein said nucleic acid comprises aiRNA.
[00226]     39. The nanoparticle of paragraph 36 further comprising a shell around said core that
comprises an ingredient selected from the group consisting of a protein or peptide, a lipid, a
surfactant, a ligand, an amino acid, a carbohydrate, a small molecule, a nucleic acid, and/or a
biocompatible polymer.
[00227]     40. The nanoparticle of paragraph 36 wherein said additive is selected from the
group consisting of a lipid, a surfactant, a protein or peptide, a nucleic acid, a carbohydrates, an
amino acid, a biocompatible polymer, polyarginine, polylysine, and a polyethylene glycol
(PEG).
[00228]     41. The nanoparticle of paragraph 40 wherein said lipid is cholesterol or a
phospholipid, and wherein said protein or peptide is albumin or its derivative.
[00229]     42. A nanoparticle comprising: a core comprising magnesium phosphate with
aiRNA disposed inside said core; a shell around said core and comprising an ingredient selected
from the group consisting of a protein or peptide, a lipid, a surfactant, a ligand, an amino acid, a
carbohydrate, a small molecule, a nucleic acid, and a biocompatible polymer; and wherein the
average diameter of said nanoparticle is between about 2 nanometers and about 200
nanometers.
[00230]     43. The nanoparticle of paragraph 42 wherein said protein or peptide is an albumin
or an albumin derivative, and wherein said lipid is cholesterol or a phospholipid.
[00231]     44. The nanoparticle of paragraph 42 wherein the average diameter of said
nanoparticle is between about 5 nanometers and about 100 nanometers.
[00232]     45. The nanoparticle of paragraph 42 wherein the average diameter of said
nanoparticle is between about 5.5 nanometers and about 80 nanometers.
[00233]     46. The nanoparticle of paragraph 42 wherein said surfactant is selected from the
group consisting of Cremophor EL, Solutol, Tween and Triton.

                                                  35
[00234]     47. The nanoparticle of paragraph 42 wherein said nanoparticle is more soluble at
pH less than about 7.0.
[00235]     48. The nanoparticle of paragraph 42 wherein said protein or peptide is protamine or
histone.
[00236]     49. The nanoparticle of paragraph 42 wherein said nanoparticle is characterized with
a surface charge between about -10 mV and about +20 mV.
[00237]     50. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a plurality of nanoparticles, each
being the nanoparticle of any of paragraphs 1-49.
[00238]     51 .The pharmaceutical composition of paragraph 50 further comprising a
pharmaceutically acceptable excipient, carrier or diluent.
[00239]     52. The pharmaceutical composition of paragraph 50, formulated for oral
administration.
[00240]     53. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a nanoparticle and an active
pharmaceutical ingredient, said composition capable of, after being administered orally,
eliciting medicinal effects treating at least one disease or condition such that the composition
would qualify as a pharmaceutical candidate meeting normal requirements for clinical
applications.
[00241]     54. A method for delivering an active agent into a mammalian subject, said method
comprising administering orally into the mammalian subject at least a nanoparticle loaded with
an active agent.
[00242]     55. The method of paragraph 54 wherein said active agent is an active
pharmaceutical ingredient.
[00243]     56. The method of paragraph 54 wherein said nanoparticle comprises a core
comprising a magnesium salt and said active agent is either an aiRNA or siRNA.
[00244]     57. A method for treating a disease in a mammalian subject, said method comprising
administering orally into said mammalian subject a therapeutically effective amount of an
active pharmaceutical ingredient carried by a plurality of nanoparticles.
[00245]     58. The method of paragraph 57 wherein said nanoparticle comprises a core
comprising a magnesium salt.
[00246]     59. A method of treating a disease in a mammalian subject, said method comprising
administering to said mammalian subject a therapeutically effective amount of a pharmaceutical
composition of any of paragraphs 50-53.
[00247]     60. The method of paragraph 59 wherein the pharmaceutical composition is
administered orally into said mammalian subject.

                                                 36
[00248]      61. A method of delivering an active agent into a mammalian subject, said method
comprising administering to said mammalian subject a plurality of nanoparticles, each being a
nanoparticle of any of paragraphs 1-49.
[00249]      62. The method of paragraph 61 wherein the nanoparticles are administered orally
into the mammalian subject.
[00250]      63. A nanoparticle comprising an albumin-based core and a medically useful agent.
[00251]      64. The nanoparticle of paragraph 63 wherein said core further comprises a peptide
selected from the group consisting of a modified albumin, an albumin fragment and a derivative
of albumin.
[00252]      65. The nanoparticle of paragraph 63 further comprising a magnesium salt.
[00253]      66. The nanoparticle of paragraph 63 wherein said agent is selected from the group
consisting of an antisense DNA, an RNA, a DNA-RNA hybrid, a PNA, aptamer, an antibody,
an antibody fragment and a small molecule.
[00254]      67. A nanoparticle comprising a core that comprises gold and an aiRNA.
[00255]      68. The nanoparticle of paragraph 67 wherein said core further comprises
magnesium phosphate.
[00256]      69. The nanoparticle of paragraph 67, further comprising a shell around said core
that comprises a material selected from the group consisting of a protein or peptide, a lipid, a
surfactant, a ligand, an amino acid, a carbohydrate, a small molecule, a nucleic acid, and a
biocompatible polymer.
[00257]      70. The nanoparticle of paragraph 67 wherein said aiRNA targets at least an RNA
that either encodes a protein or regulates a part of a biological pathway implicated in
autoimmune disease, or an inflammatory disease.
[00258]      71. The nanoparticle of paragraph 67 wherein said aiRNA targets human TNF-a
(tumor necrosis factor-a) function.
[00259]      72. The nanoparticle of paragraph 67 wherein said aiRNA targets human IL-6
(Interleukin-6) function.

                                                  37
CLAIMS
1.          A nanoparticle comprising:
             a core comprising a magnesium salt consisting of an inorganic magnesium salt and
a medically useful agent comprising a ribonucleic acid (RNA),
             wherein the average diameter of the nanoparticle is no more than about 100 nm.
2.          A nanoparticle comprising:
             a core consisting of magnesium phosphate or magnesium phosphate and calcium
phosphate; and
             a medically useful agent comprising a ribonucleic acid (RNA),
wherein the average diameter of the nanoparticle is no more than about 100 nm.
3.          A nanoparticle comprising:
             a core comprising a magnesium salt consisting of an inorganic magnesium salt;
             a medically useful agent comprising an aiRNA, and
             a shell that substantially encapsulates the core, the shell comprising a surfactant and
a protein or peptide,
             wherein the nanoparticle is positively charged and has an average diameter of no
more than about 100 nm.
4.           The nanoparticle of any one of claims 1-3, wherein the inorganic magnesium salt
comprises magnesium phosphate.
5.           The nanoparticle of any one of claims 1-3, wherein a plurality of the nanoparticles
do not aggregate in aqueous solution.
6.           The nanoparticle of claim 1, wherein the medically useful agent is disposed on a
surface of a core comprising the inorganic magnesium salt.
7.           The nanoparticle of any one of claims 1, 2 and 6, wherein the core comprises an
additive chosen from a nucleic acid, a protein or peptide, a lipid, a surfactant, an amino acid, a
carbohydrate, a small molecule, polyarginine, polylysine, a polyethylene glycol (PEG) and/or a
biocompatible polymer.
8.           The nanoparticle of any one of claims 1, 2, 6 and 7, further comprising a shell that
substantially encapsulates the core, the shell comprising an ingredient chosen from a ligand or a

                                                 38
targeting ligand, a peptide, a cell-penetrating peptide and/or RGD tripeptide, a protein; an
albumin, an albumin derivative, a histone, a protamine, an amino acid, a surfactant,
polyethoxylated castor oil (Cremophor@ EL), polyethylene glycol (15)-hydroxystearate
(Solutol@), polyethylene glycol tert-octylphenyl ether (Triton) and/or polysorbate
(Tween@); a carbohydrate, cyclodextrin, a lipid, a nucleic acid, a small molecule, and/or a
biocompatible polymer.
9.           The nanoparticle of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the average diameter of the
nanoparticle is between about 5 nm and about 100 nm.
10.          The nanoparticle of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the average diameter of the
nanoparticle is between about 5 nm and about 80 nm.
11.          The nanoparticle of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the average diameter of the
nanoparticle is between about 5 nm and about 50 nm.
12.          The nanoparticle of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the medically useful agent
comprises a nucleic acid, a protein or peptide, and/or a small molecule.
13.          The nanoparticle of claim 12, wherein the nucleic acid is chosen from an antisense
DNA, an RNAi molecule, a DNA-RNA hybrid, a PNA, and/or an aptamer.
14.          The nanoparticle of claim 13, wherein the RNAi molecule comprises an aiRNA or
siRNA.
15.          A method of treating a disease in a subject, said method comprising administering
to said subject the nanoparticle of any one of claims 1-14.
16.          The nanoparticle of claim 3, wherein the surfactant comprises polyethoxylated
castor oil (Cremophor@ EL).
17.          The nanoparticle of claim 3, wherein the protein comprises protamine or a histone.
18.          A method of preparing a nanoparticle comprising:
             adding a second emulsion of an aqueous solution of an inorganic phosphate mixed
in an organic solvent to a first emulsion of an aqueous solution comprising an inorganic
magnesium salt, other than magnesium phosphate, and a medically useful agent mixed in an
organic solvent,

                                                 39
            wherein the ratio of the first emulsion to the second emulsion is from about 10:1 to
about 20:1.
19.         The nanoparticle of claim 18 wherein the medically useful agent comprises a
protein or peptide, a small molecule, an antisense DNA, an RNAi molecule, a DNA-RNA
hybrid, a PNA, and/or an aptamer.
20.         The nanoparticle of claim 19 wherein the RNAi molecule comprises an aiRNA or
siRNA.
Date:       7 February 2018

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                       1
<removed-date>
                                          SEQUENCE LISTING
              <110>   1GLOBE HEALTH INSTITUTE LLC
                      LI, CHIANG J.
                      LI, YOUZHI
                      GADA, KEYUR
                      SAXENA, VAIBHAV
                      DAI, XIAOSHU
                      PRATA, JOSEPH
                      DODWADKAR, NAMITA
<removed-apn>
              <120>   BIODEGRADABLE AND CLINICALLY-COMPATIBLE NANOPARTICLES AS DRUG
                      DELIVERY CARRIERS
              <130>   1322P/PCT
              <140>   PCT/US2014/014751
              <141>   2014-02-05
              <150>   US 61/761,012
              <151>   2013-02-05
              <160>   8
              <170>   PatentIn version 3.5
              <210>   1
              <211>   15
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   part of an aiRNA pair targeting b-Catenin
              <400> 1
              cacaagaugg aauuu                                                        15
              <210>   2
              <211>   21
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   part of an aiRNA pair targeting b-Catenin
              <400> 2
              cuaguguucu accuuaaaua a                                                 21
              <210>   3
              <211>   15
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   part of an aiRNA pair targeting survivin
              <400> 3
              gaucaacauu uucaa                                                        15

                                                     2
<removed-date>
              <210>   4
              <211>   21
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   part of an aiRNA pair targeting survivin
              <400> 4
<removed-apn>
              ccucuaguug uaaaaguuua a                            21
              <210>   5
              <211>   15
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   part of an aiRNA pair targeting PLK1
              <400> 5
              gaucacccuc cuuaa                                   15
              <210>   6
              <211>   21
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   part of an aiRNA pair targeting PLK1
              <400> 6
              cuucuagugg gaggaauuua a                            21
              <210>   7
              <211>   15
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   aiRNA sequence used as scramble control
              <400> 7
              guaguuauag ucgau                                   15
              <210>   8
              <211>   21
              <212>   RNA
              <213>   Artificial sequence
              <220>
              <223>   aiRNA sequence used as scramble control
              <400> 8
              guccaucaau aucagcuaca a                            21

