Regular crab bait holders consist of either a mesh pouch which one inserts the bait into, or a
steel quick release bait clips. Both of these designs allow crabs and fish to easy access to eat
the bait, and escape out of your crab pots, damaging both the mesh bags, and the crab pots
in the process. This design allows the scent and small bait particles to drift out of the holes
with the water currant, but does not allow crabs and fish direct access to the bait, keeping the
crabs in the pot for longer, and allowing the bait to be used multiple times. It only weighs 250
grams, so it is light and easy to transport.

           Editorial Note
               <removed-apn>
There are three pages of description only

                     AUSTRALIA
                   Patents Act 1990
            PROVISIONAL SPECIFICATION
         IMPROVED CRAB POT BAIT HOLDER
The invention is described in the following statement.

      The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method of
performing it known to me.
      Regular crab bait holders consist of either a mesh pouch which you insert your bait into, or a
steel quick release bait clips. Both of these designs allow crabs and fish to easy access to eat the bait,
and escape out of your crab pots, damaging both the mesh bags, and the crab pots in the process.
This design that I have invented allows the scent and small bait particles to drift out of the holes with
the water currant, but does not allow crabs and fish direct access to the bait, keeping the crabs in
the pot for longer, and allowing the bait to be used multiple times. It only weighs 250 grams, so it is
light and easy to transport.
      The bait holder consists of a piece of PVC pipe tubing, base cap and threaded lid, 18cm in
length, 10.5cm in diameter, with 4mm holes in the tubing, lid and base cap. The lid is attached to
the PVC tubing by a length of 5mm rope, 30cm long. The size of the holes allow the oils and small
particles through with the water current, but small enough that the crabs cannot get a purchase and
tear holes in the PVC. Allowing for multiple types of bait and burley to be used within them, and
allowing you to check your crab pots and not having to have to re bait them every time. Disposing of
the used bait is easier as your hands do not come into direct contact with it.
      I have been using this product for close to a decade, and in that time they have never failed. I
have yet to see this type of bait holder in any stores, and I feel there is a niche in the market for this.
There are 2 similar patents in the United States; US4914856A 1988-1990 and CA2002969A1 1988
1990, one which the patency has lapsed, the design and components are similar, but this design that
I have created, solves the found flaws in the other patent. The lapsed patent is the same round PVC
tubing, with the opening running down the length of the tube with a metal hinges and clasp to close
it. And it is attached to the inside of the pot by a metal carabiner. The metal hinges and clasps are
more vulnerable to damage and wear and tear; and corrosion in salt water, needing to replace the
bait holder more frequently. This design has no metal or moving parts that can easily break, and uses
a threaded cap to seal the bait holder. The loop that the rope makes when the lid is sealed can be
threaded into the rope that closes a collapsible crab pot, and can also be attached to the door on top
of a steel crab pot either by the latch or the rope of the crab pot holder.
      It saves the user both time and money, being easy to bait and attach and saves the purchaser
money from having to constantly replace bait, and repairing crab pots and plastic bait holders.

                                          PRODUCT SPECIFICATIONS.
                                                PROTOTYPE 1.
     FIG 1.
     1: Threaded access cap 9 cm female thread.
     2: Straight coupling threaded 9 cm male thread.
     3: Push on cap 9 cm.
     4: PVC pipe 15 cm
     5: 4mm holes spaced 1 1/2-2cm apart.
     6: 5mm rope, 30cm long.
     7: Optimum height of entire bait holder is 18cm, the pieces of PVC are joined using PVC Primer
and Cement, once set, is safe to use in both saltwater and freshwater environments, and is not
harmful to aquatic life.
     FIG 2.
     Lid assembly.
     FIG 3a 3b.
     Top and bottom views.
                                                 PROTOTYPE 2
     The next step on this prototype is a two piece structure comprising of cylindrical PVC tubing
with a male thread at the top and a fully enclosed bottom as one entire piece, and the lid with
female thread as the second piece.
     I am in the process of seeking manufacturers and businesses to stock this product, but do not
want this design concept to be stolen and used by them until this patent is approved.
     I feel that this crab bait holder has potential not only in the recreational sector, but the
commercial sector as well, with the potential for global expansion, with its simple design and ease of
use.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
