                                        Abstract
A method and system for performing e-commerce transactions including searching, browsing,
filtering, matching of goods and services using voice enabled artificial intelligence (Al)
powered smart assistants and augmenting them with consumer devices such as television,
computer displays, projectors, VR headsets and displays on mobile devices. This is done by
establishing a communication link between the voice- enabled Al powered smart assistants
and display devices. A custom software platform provides a frictionless, efficient, rich,
relevant, context sensitive and hands-free user experience using existing consumer devices
and hardware.

     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are two pages of description only

Description
Background:
The growth in usage of voice-enabled artificial intelligence (AI) powered smart assistants in the
consumer and commercial space means that increasing number of tasks can now be performed
using voice interface and natural language. While this works well for simple tasks and information
lookup requests, there are limitations and usability constraints with a voice interface for more
complex tasks such as e-commerce. Thus, there is a need for a method or system for performing
tasks that require more complex interactions with voice-enabled Al powered smart assistants.
Summary of Invention/Innovation
It is a feature and advantage of this invention/innovation to provide a method and system for
performing efficient, frictionless and hands-free e-commerce transactions utilising voice-enabled
smart assistants and visual displays eg. TV's digital displays, tables, phones and VR headsets.
Brief Description of the Drawings
      -   1: The Actor is the user of the system
      -   2: The user interacts with the smart assistant using their voice in a bidirectional manner
          using natural language
      -   3: The smart assistant is connected to one or more backend cloud platforms over a network
          connection.
      -   4: The backend cloud platform satisfied the user request by interacting with a master
          products and services catalog and one or more external platforms, e-commerce sites, API's
          and databases. The result is sent to the user in the form of voice and visual data.
      -   5: The backend cloud platform will interact with other external systems to fulfil the user
          request
      -   6: One or more external e-commerce platform, websites, API's and portals may be
          leveraged.
      -   7: The smart client is able to trigger delivery of visual information to the displays via a
          network link. There may be one or more intermediaries in this link in the form of software,
          middleware and hardware.
      -   8: The displays can a consumer device such as TV, computer monitor, digital display, tablet,
          mobile phone and VR headset.
Detailed Description of the Invention/Innovation
It is a feature and advantage of this invention/innovation to provide a method and system for
performing e-commerce transactions including searching, browsing, filtering, matching of goods and
services using voice enabled artificial intelligence (AI) powered smart assistants and augmenting
them with consumer devices such as television, computer displays, projectors, VR headsets and
displays on mobile devices. This is done by establishing a communication link between the voice
enabled Al powered smart assistants and display devices. A custom software platform provides a
frictionless, efficient, rich, relevant, context sensitive and hands-free user experience using existing
consumer devices and hardware. Example of usage of this innovation/ invention:

1) Frictionless and efficient modern home shopping and e-commerce experience utilizing
   existing consumer hardware and devices
2) Voice-enabled Al powered digital concierge service at hotels and resorts eg. Ordering
   meals, requesting room service, making reservations, asking questions using natural
   language and purchasing tickets to events and activities.
3) Al powered customer service kiosk

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Claims
   1. A method and system of displaying relevant visual information on existing consumer
      devices when interacting with voice-enabled artificial intelligence (AI) powered
      smart assistant.
   2. A method and system of conducting e-commerce transactions using voice-enabled
      artificial intelligence (AI) powered smart assistant, including:
           a. Aggregating products and services catalog from multiple e-commerce sites,
               platforms, API's and databases.
           b. Intelligently and efficiently matching products and services based on user's
               requirements, constraints, preferences, profile and purchase history.
               Examples of this include price, location, delivery time, budget, user's
               favourite brands and websites, user's personal profile, search history and
               buying behaviour.
           c. Asking follow-up and reflexive questions to the user in the e-commerce
               transaction process.
   3. Using voice-enabled smart assistants to trigger the download of relevant products
      and services information that match user requests and displaying them on consumer
      displays such as TV's, computer monitors, tables, mobile phones, VR headsets and
      digital displays. This is in addition to voice output using natural language.
   4. Maintaining context of current product and services information being displayed so
      that the user is able to verbally place orders for goods and services using information
      being displayed.
   5. An artificial intelligence (AI) powered cloud platform that enables existing e
      commerce sites and e-commerce platforms to offer their goods and services through
      smart agents and consumers devices such as TV, digital displays and mobile devises.

                  Editorial Note
<removed-date>
                    <removed-apn>
              There are two pages of drawings only
<removed-apn>

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
