                                            Abstract
   A gaming system is disclosed which comprises a plurality
   of gaming devices, each gaming device being arranged to
 5 implement a game.                  The gaming system comprises a
   communications network arranged to connect the gaming
   devices in networked relationship, and a parameter
   repository arranged to store gaming device parameters.
   The gaming system is arranged to facilitate access to the
10 parameter repository and modification of the gaming device
   parameters from a gaming device.
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                             1
                                      A GAMING SYSTEM
   Field of the Invention
 5 The present invention relates to a gaming system, a gaming
   device and a method of managing gaming device parameters.
   Background of the Invention
10 It is known to provide a gaming system which comprises a
   game controller arranged to implement a game and a player
   interface usable by a player to play the game.
   In some gaming systems which include a plurality of
15 networked gaming devices, parameters associated with the
   gaming devices, such as              speaker volume, allowable
   denominations, and so on, are adjustable by operators of
   the gaming system, for example by providing a dedicated
   maintenance terminal connected through the network to the
20 gaming devices and usable to modify the parameters
   associated with the gaming devices.
   However, such a dedicated maintenance terminal is
   expensive for relatively small gaming venues and
25 necessitates a dedicated space at the gaming venue which
   may not be readily available.
   Summary of the Invention
30 In accordance with a first aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a gaming system comprising:
                a plurality of gaming devices, each gaming device
   being arranged to implement a game and having a player
   interface to control play of              said game;
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                                2
                a parameter repository located remotely of the
   plurality of gaming devices, and arranged to store gaming
   device parameters for the plurality of gaming devices;           and
                a communications network arranged to connect the
 5 gaming devices and the parameter repository in networked
   relationship;
                the gaming system being arranged to facilitate remote
   access to the parameter repository from at least one of
   said plurality of gaming devices such that modification of
10 the gaming device parameters of any of the plurality of
   gaming devices can occur remotely of the parameter
   repository from the at least one gaming device, said
   remote parameter repository being navigable using said
   player interface.
15
   The gaming system may comprise a remote base station
   arranged to store gaming device parameters, the remote
   base station comprising data indicative of at least one
20 game and a game server arranged to serve data indicative
   of a game to a gaming device for implementation at the
   gaming device.
   In an alternative arrangement, the gaming system is
25 arranged to facilitate access to the parameter repository
   from each of the plurality of gaming devices.
   In one embodiment, the gaming system comprises an
   authorization device arranged to permit access to the game
30 parameters by a person only when the identity of the
   person has been verified.
   The authorization device may be arranged to receive an
   authorization code                 from a person, to compare the
35 authorization code with a reference authorization code,
   and to permit access to the game parameters if the entered
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                            3
   authorization code and the reference authorization code
   match.
   In one embodiment, the gaming system comprises an
 5 identification device reader and the reference
   authorisation code is stored on an identification device
   which may be an identification card, the identification
   device reader being arranged to extract the authorization
   code from the identification device when the
10 identification device is in communication with the
   identification device reader.
   In one embodiment, the gaming device parameters include
   speaker volume; allowable bill denominations receivable by
15 a bill acceptor of the gaming device 12;             status of the
   gaming device 12; opening hours associated with the gaming
   venue;             and/or any other gaming device related property.
   In one arrangement, the gaming system is arranged to
20 facilitate access to the parameter repository from a
   remote location through the Internet, for example by a
   remotely located computing device such as a personal
   computer, or by a wireless enable personal digital
   assistant                    (PDA)
25
   In accordance with a second aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a gaming device comprising:
                a player interface to control play of said game;
                the gaming device being arranged to facilitate access
30 to at least one parameter repository located remotely of
   the gaming device, and arranged to store gaming device
   parameters associated with the gaming device and a
   plurality of other gaming devices; and
                the gaming device arranged to facilitate remote
35 access to the parameter registry from the gaming device
   using the player interface such that modification of the
   stored gaming device parameters of the gaming device or
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                         4
   any one of the plurality of other gaming devices can occur
   remotely of the parameter repository from the gaming
   device.
 5 In accordance with a third aspect of the present
   invention, there is provided a method of managing gaming
   device parameters comprising:
                providing a plurality of gaming devices, each gaming
   device being arranged to implement a game and having a
10 player interface to control play of said game;
                 storing gaming device parameters for a plurality of
   gaming devices remotely of the plurality of gaming devices
   at a parameter repository;
                connecting the gaming devices and the parameter
15 repository in networked relationship;          and
                 facilitating remote access to the parameter
   repository from at least one of the plurality of gaming
   devices such that modification of the gaming device
   parameters of any of the plurality of gaming devices can
20 occur remotely of the parameter repository from the at
   least one gaming device, said remote parameter repository
   being navigable using said player interface.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
25
   The present invention will now be described, by way of
   example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings,
   in which:
                Figure 1 is a schematic block diagram of a gaming
30 system in accordance with an embodiment of the present
   invention;
                Figure 2 is a schematic block diagram a gaming device
   of the gaming system shown in Figure 1;
                Figure 3 is a diagrammatic representation of the
35 gaming device shown in Figure 2;
                Figure 4 is a schematic block diagram of operative
   components of the gaming device shown in Figure 2;
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                                      5
                Figure 5 is a schematic block diagram of components
   of a memory of the gaming device shown in Figure 2;                        and
                Figure               6 is a diagrammatic representation of a login
   screen displayed by the gaming device shown in Figures 2
 5 to 4;
                Figure 7 is a diagrammatic representation of a game
   parameters menu displayed by the gaming device shown in
   Figures 2 to 4;
                Figure 8 is a diagrammatic representation of a game
10 parameters table displayed by the gaming device shown in
   Figures 2 to 4;
                Figure               9 is a schematic block diagram of a gaming
   system in accordance with an alternative embodiment of the
   present invention;                       and
15              Figure 10 is a diagrammatic representation of a
   gaming device of the gaming system shown in Figure 9.
   Description of an Embodiment of the Invention
20 Referring to the drawings, an embodiment of a gaming
   system 10 is shown which is arranged to implement a
   probabilistic game, in this example of the type wherein
   several symbols                       from a set of symbols are randomly
   displayed, and a game outcome is determined on the basis
25 of the displayed symbols.
   With some such probabilistic games, the set of symbols
   used include standard symbols and function symbols,                        and
   the game outcome is determined on the basis of the
30 displayed standard symbols and the function associated
   with any displayed function symbol.                        For example,  standard
   symbols may resemble fruit such as apples, pears and
   bananas with a win outcome being determined when a
   predetermined number of the same fruit appear on a display
35 along a win line, or are displayed according to defined
   outcome patterns such as scattered, and so on.                        The
   function associated with a function symbol may be for
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                                      6
   example a wild function wherein display of the function
   symbol is treated during consideration of the game outcome
   as any of the standard symbols.                        A function symbol may be
   represented as the word "WILD", a star, or by any other
 5 suitable word or symbol.                        Other functions are also
   envisaged such as scatter functions, multiplier functions,
   repeat win functions, jackpot functions and feature
   commencement functions.
10 Referring to Figure 1, a schematic diagram of a gaming
   system 10 in accordance with the present embodiment is
   shown.                 The gaming system 10 comprises several gaming
   devices 12 connected together in networked relationship.
   In this example, a remote base station 16 is also
15 connected to the network 14, the base station 16 storing
   data indicative of several games which may be controllably
   served to the gaming devices for implementation by the
   gaming devices 12.
20 The base station 16 includes a processor 18 for
   controlling and coordinating operations in the base
   station 16, a games repository 20 for storing data
   indicative of one or more games implementable by the
   gaming devices 12, a games server 22 arranged to serve
25 games to the gaming devices 12 under control of the
   processor 18, and a network interface 24 arranged to
   interface with the network 14 and facilitate
   communications between the base station 16 and the network
   14.
30
   The gaming system, 10 also includes a parameters
   repository 26, in this example included in the base
   station 16.                        The parameters repository 26 stores
   parameters usable by the gaming devices 12 to define
35 properties of the gaming devices 12.                        Example parameters
   include speaker volume; the allowable bill denominations
   receivable by a bill acceptor of the gaming device 12; the
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                                    7
   status of the gaming device 12,                     for example whether the
   gaming device is on-line or off-line;                     opening hours
   associated with the gaming venue and thereby whether
   gaming is allowed or not;                     and/or any other gaming device
 5 related property.                      The parameters repository 26 is
   arranged to store a parameter record 28 for each gaming
   device 12,                     each parameter record 28 containing data
   indicative of parameters associated with the gaming device
   12.
10
   The gaming system 10                     is arranged such that the parameters
   contained in the parameter records 28 are modifiable by an
   operator from at least one of the gaming devices                     12,  in
   the present embodiment by enabling a gaming device to
15 display a parameters menu on the gaming device display on
   request using a player interface associated with the
   gaming device.
   While this embodiment is described in relation to a gaming
20 system wherein gaming device parameters are                     stored at a
   network location remote from the gaming devices 12,                      it
   will be understood that other arrangements are possible.
   For example, each gaming device may be arranged to store
   gaming device parameters locally at the gaming device, and
25 the gaming system arranged so that the gaming device
   parameters stored locally at the gaming devices are
   accessible using one dedicated gaming device or any of the
   gaming devices connected to the network.
30 It will also be understood that the ability to modify the
   gaming device parameters is not restricted to locally
   disposed gaming devices                     12.  For example, access to the
   gaming device parameters, whether stored at the base
   station or locally at the gaming devices 12,                     may also be
35 permitted by remotely located devices such as through the
   Internet by gaming devices 12 or computer enabled devices
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                        8
   such as personal computers and personal digital assistants
    (PDA)located remotely relative to the gaming venue.
   An embodiment of a gaming device 12 is shown in block
 5 diagram form in Figure 2.          The gaming device 12 includes a
   player interface 30 and a game controller 32.          The player
   interface 30 is arranged to enable interaction between the
   gaming system and a player or gaming device operator and
   for this purpose includes input/output components required
10 for the player to enter instructions and play the game and
   for the operator to gain access to a parameters menu and
   make changes to gaming device parameters as required.
   Components of the player interface 30 may vary but will
15 typically include a credit mechanism 34 to enable a player
   to input credits and receive payouts, one or more displays
   36 which may comprise a touch screen, and a game play
   mechanism 38 arranged to enable a player to input
   instructions.
20
   The game controller 32 is in data communication with the
   player interface 30 and typically includes a processor 40
   arranged to process game play instructions and output game
   player outcomes to the display 36.          Typically, the game
25 play instructions are stored as program code 42 in a
   memory 44 that can also be hardwired.          It will be
   understood that in this specification the term "processor"
   is used to refer generically to any device that can
   process game play instructions and may include a
30 microprocessor, microcontroller, programmable logic device
   or other computational device such as a personal computer
   or a server.
   In this example, the memory 44 also stores at least one
35 service program 46 which is used by the processor 40 to
   enable modification of the gaming device parameters at the
   gaming device by an operator.          The service program 46 uses
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                      9
   game menu data 46 which defines the characteristics of a
   parameters menu displayed on the display 36 when the
   parameters menu is requested by an operator.     In this
   example, access to the parameters menu is only allowed
 5 after the operator has been authenticated.     This may occur
   by storing an authorisation code 49 in the memory 44 and
   requesting the authorisation code 49 from the operator
   prior to granting access to the parameters menu.
10 In an alternative authorisation arrangement, the gaming
   system may be provided with a reader which may be in the
   form of a player marketing module    (PMM), and the person
   authorised to access the parameters menu provided with an
   identification card readable by the PMM and including
15 information identifying the person.     Insertion of the
   identification card into the PMM first causes the player
   tracking device to verify that the person indicated on the
   card is authorised to gain access to the parameters menu,
   and secondly causes a request to be made for the person to
20 enter an authorisation code such as a PIN number.
   Verification of the PIN number causes access to the
   parameters menu to be permitted.
   The gaming device 12 also includes a network interface 47
25 arranged to facilitate communications between the gaming
   device 12 and the network 14.
   The gaming system 10 can take a number of different forms.
30 In a first form, gaming devices in the form of gaming
   machines are provided wherein all or most components
   required for implementing a game are present in the gaming
   machine.
35 In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing a
   game are present in a player operable gaming device and
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                                     10
   some of the components required for implementing the game
   are located remotely relative to the gaming device, such
   as in a base station as                      shown in Figure 1.   For example, a
   "thick client" architecture may be used wherein part of
 5 the game is executed on a player operable gaming terminal
   and part of the game is executed remotely, such as by a
   gaming server;                      or a "thin client" architecture may be used
   wherein most of the game is executed remotely such as by a
   gaming server and a player operable gaming terminal is
10 used only to display audible and/or visible gaming
   information to the player and receive gaming inputs from
   the player.
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
15 envisaged.                       For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming device is networked to a gaming server
   and the respective functions of the gaming device and the
   gaming server are selectively modifiable.                        For example,
   the gaming system may operate in stand alone gaming
20 machine mode,                      "thick client" mode or "thin client" mode
   depending on the game being played, operating conditions,
   and so on. Other variations will be apparent to persons
   skilled in the art.
25 Irrespective of the form of implementation of the gaming
   system, various arrangements are possible for storing and
   facilitating access to gaming device parameters associated
   with the gaming devices, including storing the gaming
   device parameters locally at the gaming devices or storing
30 the gaming device parameters                       for at least some of the
   gaming devices at the base station 16.
   A stand alone gaming device 50                       for use with the gaming
   system is illustrated in Figure 3. The gaming device 50
35 includes a console 52 having a display 54 on which is
   displayed representations of a game 56 that can be played
   by a player.                       A mid-trim 60 of the gaming device 50 houses
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                                    11
   a bank of buttons 62 for enabling a player to interact
   with the gaming device, in particular during game play.
   The mid-trim 60 also houses a credit input mechanism 64
   which in this example includes a coin input chute 64A and
 5 a bill collector 64B.                      Other credit input mechanisms may
   also be employed, for example, a card reader for reading a
   smart card, debit card or credit card.                       A reading device
   may also be provided for the purpose of reading a player
   tracking device, for example as part of a loyalty program.
10 The player tracking device may be in the form of a card,
   flash drive or any other portable storage medium capable
   of being read by the reading device.
   A top box 66 may carry artwork 68,                      including for example
15 pay tables and details of bonus awards and other
   information or images relating to the game.                       Further
   artwork and/or information may be provided on a front
   panel 69 of the console 52.                      A  coin tray 70 is mounted
   beneath the front panel                     69 for dispensing cash payouts
20 from the gaming device 50.
   The display 54 is in the form of a video display unit,
   particularly a cathode ray tube screen device.
   Alternatively, the display 54 may be a liquid crystal
25 display, plasma screen, or any other suitable video
   display unit.                      The top box 66 may also include a display,
   for example a video display unit, which may be of the same
   type as the display 54,                     or of a different type.   The
   display 54 may comprise a touch screen usable by a player
30 to interact with the gaming device, in particular during
   game play, and to interact with the system menu in order
   to display a parameters menu usable to access and modify
   parameters associated with one or more gaming devices.
35 The display 54 in this example is arranged to display
   representations of                     several reels, each reel of which has
   several associated symbols.                       During operation of the game,
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                                    12
   the reels                   first appear to rotate then stop with at least
   one         symbol visible on each reel.               Game outcomes are
   determined on the basis of the visible symbols together
   with any special functions associated with the symbols.
 5
   A player marketing module                      (PMM) 72 having a display 74 is
   connected to the gaming device 50.                       The main purpose of
   the PMM 72                     is to allow the player to interact with a
   player loyalty system.                      The PMM has a magnetic card reader
10 for the purpose of reading a player tracking device, for
   example as part of a loyalty program.                       However other
   reading devices may be employed and the player tracking
   device may be in the form of a card, flash drive or any
   other portable storage medium capable of being read by the
15 reading device.                      The PMM 72 may also be arranged to read
   identification information from an identification card in
   order to authorise a person to gain access to meter data
   stored in the gaming device memory.                       In this example, the
   PMM 72 is a Sentinel III device produced by Aristocrat
20 Technologies Pty Ltd.
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram of operative components of
   a gaming device 100 which may be the same as or different
   to the gaming device shown in Figure 3.
25
   The gaming device 100 includes a game controller 101
   having a processor 102.                      Instructions and data to control
   operation of the processor 102                      in accordance with the
   present invention are stored in a memory 103 which is in
30 data communication with the processor 102.
   Typically, the gaming device 100 will include both
   volatile and non-volatile memory and more than one of each
   type of memory, with such memories being collectively
35 represented by the memory 103.
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                              13
   an exemplary memory 103.                The memory 103 includes RAM
   103A, EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.                 The RAM
   103A typically temporarily holds program files for
   execution by the processor 102 and related data.                 The
 5 EPROM 103B may be a boot ROM device and/or may contain
   some system or game related code.                 The mass storage device
   103C is typically used to store game and service programs,
   the integrity of which may be verified and/or
   authenticated by the processor 102 using protected code
10 from the EPROM 103B or elsewhere, and meter data 28.
   The gaming device has hardware meters 104 for purposes
   including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
   player credit, an input/output                (I/0) interface 105 for
15 communicating with a player interface 120 of the gaming
   device 100, the player interface 120 having several
   peripheral devices.                The input/output interface 105 and/or
   the peripheral devices may be intelligent devices with
   their own memory for storing associated instructions and
20 data for use with the input/output interface or the
   peripheral devices.                A random number generator module 113
   generates random numbers for use by the processor 102.
   In the example shown in Figure 3, the peripheral devices
25 that communicate with the game controller 101 comprise one
   or more displays 106, a touch screen and/or bank of
   buttons 107, a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer
   109, a bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a
   coin output mechanism 111.                Additional hardware may be
30 included as part of the gaming device 100, or hardware may
   be omitted as required for the specific implementation.
   In addition, the gaming device 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.
35 The network card may, for example, send status
   information, accounting information or other information
   to a central controller, server or database and receive
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                                      14
   data or commands from the central controller, server or
   database.
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
 5 gaming device 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 may be
   provided remotely from the game controller 101.
   An example of a specific implementation of a gaming system
10 will now be described.
   During normal operation, the gaming system implements a
   game in response to player input.                        The game may be
   implemented solely by a gaming device, or at least partly
15 by the gaming device and at least partly by a remote base
   station.
   In order to view and/or modify at least one parameter
   associated with a gaming device, a representative of
20 operators of the gaming system causes an authorization
   screen 200 to be shown on a gaming device using the game
   play mechanism 20 and/or touch screen, as shown in Figure
   6.         Using the authorization screen 200,                an operator enters
   authorization information, in this example a login name
25 202 and authorization code 204,                       in order to verify the
   identity of the representative.
   Positive identification grants the representative access
   to a parameters menu 210 shown in Figure 7 which may be
30 navigated using the game play mechanism 20 and/or touch
   screen.                  The parameters menu 210 includes a plurality of
   buttons 212,                       each button 212 corresponding to a gaming
   device and being arranged such that, when activated, a
   parameters table 220 as                       shown in Figure 8 is displayed.
35
   Each parameters table 220 includes at least one parameter
   222 and at least one modifiable value 224 for each
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                                      15
   parameter 222.                       In this example, the parameters 222
   include speaker volume;                       allowable bill denominations;   the
   machine status, that is, whether the gaming device is on
   line or off-line;                       and the gaming venue opening hours and,
 5 as such, the times at which the gaming device may be used
   by a player.                       However, it will be understood that other
   parameters are envisaged.
   Using the parameters table 220,                        an operator is able to
10 modify the parameter values 224 for the gaming device
   associated with the parameters table 220.
   While the above embodiment is described in relation to a
   gaming system wherein gaming device parameters are stored
15 at a base station in networked communication with the
   gaming devices, it will be understood that other
   arrangements are possible.                        For example, as  shown in
   Figures                9 and 10,        an alternative gaming system 300 and
   gaming device 310 are shown.                         Like and similar features
20 are indicated with like reference numerals.                         With this
   arrangement, instead of                       storing the gaming device
   parameters at a base station in networked communication
   with the gaming devices, the parameters 312                        for each
   gaming device are stored locally at the gaming device 310,
25 for example in the gaming device memory 44,                        and each
   gaming device is arranged so as to allow the gaming device
   parameters to be accessed and modified through the
   network, for example from other gaming devices 310.
30 It will be appreciated that the gaming system may also be
   arranged so as to facilitate access to the gaming device
   parameters 28,                      312  from devices other than the gaming
   devices disposed at the gaming venue.                         For example, the
   gaming system may be arranged to as to facilitate access
35 to the gaming device parameters by computing devices such
   as personal computers disposed remotely relative to the
   gaming venue, or by network enabled, for example wireless
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                      16
   network enabled, personal portable computing devices such
   as personal digital assistant devices (PDA).
   In the claims of this application and in the description
 5 of the invention, except where the context requires
   otherwise due to express language or necessary
   implication, the words "comprise" or variations such as
   "comprises" or "comprising" are used in an inclusive
   sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features
10 but not to preclude the presence or addition of further
   features in various embodiments of the invention.
   It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication
   is referred to herein, such reference does not constitute
15 an admission that the publication forms a part of the
   common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any
   other country.
   Modifications and variations as would be apparent to a
20 skilled addressee are deemed to be within the scope of the
   present invention.
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                                 17
   The Claims as defined in the Invention are as follows:
   1.           A gaming system comprising:
                a plurality of gaming devices, each gaming device
 5 being arranged to implement a game and having a player
   interface to control play of                   said game;
                a parameter repository located remotely of the
   plurality of gaming devices, and arranged to store gaming
   device parameters for the plurality of gaming devices;                and
10              a communications network arranged to connect the
   gaming devices and the parameter repository in networked
   relationship;
                the gaming system being arranged to facilitate remote
   access to the parameter repository from at least one of
15 said plurality of gaming devices such that modification of
   the gaming device parameters of any of the plurality of
   gaming devices can occur remotely of the parameter
   repository from the at least one gaming device, said
   remote parameter repository being navigable using said
20 player interface.
   2.           A gaming system as claimed in claim 1, comprising a
   remote base station including the remote repository, the
   remote base station comprising data indicative of at least
25 one game and a game server arranged to serve data
   indicative of a game to a gaming device for implementation
   at the gaming device.
   3.           A gaming system as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2,
30 wherein the gaming system is arranged to facilitate access
   to the parameter repository from each of the plurality of
   gaming devices.
   4.           A gaming system as claimed in any one of the
35 preceding claims,                  comprising an authorization device
   arranged to permit access to the game parameters by a
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                             18
   person only when the identity of the person has been
   verified.
   5.           A gaming system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
 5 authorization device is arranged to receive an
   authorization code from a person, to compare the
   authorization code with a reference authorization code,
   and to permit access to the game parameters if the entered
   authorization code and the reference authorization code
10 match.
   6.           A gaming system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the
   gaming system comprises an identification device reader
   and the reference authorisation code is stored on an
15 identification device, the identification device reader
   being arranged to extract the authorization code from the
   identification device when the identification device is in
   communication with the identification device reader.
20 7.           A gaming system as claimed in any one of the
   preceding claims, wherein the gaming device parameters
   include speaker volume; allowable bill denominations
   receivable by a bill acceptor of the gaming device;              status
   of the gaming device;              and/or opening hours associated with
25 the gaming venue.
   8.           A gaming system as claimed in any one of the
   preceding claims, wherein the gaming system is arranged to
   facilitate access to the parameter repository from a
30 remote location through the Internet.
   9.           A gaming system as claimed in any one of the
   preceding claims, wherein at least one gaming device
   comprises a gaming machine.
35
   10.          A gaming system as claimed in any one of the
   preceding claims, wherein at least one gaming device
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                               19
   comprises a gaming terminal arranged to implement a game
   in association with a gaming server.
   11.          A gaming device arranged to implement a game, the
 5 gaming device comprising:
                a player interface to control play of said game;
                the gaming device being arranged to facilitate access
   to at least one parameter repository located remotely of
   the gaming device, and arranged to store gaming device
10 parameters associated with the gaming device and a
   plurality of other gaming devices; and
                the gaming device arranged to facilitate remote
   access to the parameter repositry from the gaming device
   using the player interface such that modification of the
15 stored gaming device parameters of the gaming device or
   any one of the plurality of other gaming devices can occur
   remotely of the parameter repository from the gaming
   device.
20 12.          A gaming device as claimed in claim 11, comprising an
   authorization device arranged to permit access to the game
   parameters by a person only when the identity of the
   person has been verified.
25 13.          A gaming device as claimed in claim 11 or claim 12,
   wherein the gaming device parameters include speaker
   volume; allowable bill denominations receivable by a bill
   acceptor of the gaming device;                 status of the gaming
   device;                and/or opening hours associated with the gaming
30 venue.
   14.          A method of managing gaming device parameters
   comprising:
                providing a plurality of gaming devices, each gaming
35 device being arranged to implement a game and having a
   player interface to control play of said game;
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                               20
                 storing gaming device parameters for a plurality of
   gaming devices remotely of the plurality of gaming devices
   at a parameter repository;
                connecting the gaming devices and the parameter
 5 repository in networked relationship;                 and
                 facilitating remote access to the parameter
   repository from at least one of the plurality of gaming
   devices such that modification of the gaming device
   parameters of any of the plurality of gaming devices can
10 occur remotely of the parameter repository from the at
   least one gaming device, said remote parameter repository
   being navigable using said player interface.
   15.          A method as claimed in claim 14,         comprising storing
15 gaming device parameters at a remote base station
   including the parameter repository, the remote base
   station comprising data indicative of at least one game
   and a game server arranged to serve data indicative of a
   game to a gaming device for implementation at the gaming
20 device.
   16.          A method as claimed in claim 15,         comprising
   facilitating access to the parameter repository from any
   one of the plurality of gaming devices.
25
   17.          A method as claimed in claims 14 to 16, comprising
   permitting access to the game parameters by a person only
   when the identity of the person has been verified.
30 18.          A method as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 17,
   wherein the gaming device parameters include speaker
   volume;                allowable bill denominations receivable by a bill
   acceptor of the gaming device;                 status of the gaming
   device;                and/or opening hours associated with the gaming
35 venue.
   10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

                                    21
19.          A method as claimed in any one of claims 14 to 17,
comprising facilitating access to the parameter repository
from a remote location through the Internet.
10176383_1 (GHMatters) P77795.AU.5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
