  ABSTRACT
  Methods of forming non-woven roof insulation products for steel or timber trusses. Short strand
  textile glass fibres are combined with a binder component, such as resin powder or melt fibres, to
  form a mat. Curing causes the binder component to bond the textile fibres. The mat is laminated
5 with fire resistant foil before or after cutting into product portions. Short length fibres typically
  about 10-40mm in length can reduce problems which arise when the product is fastened to roof
  trusses.
                                                       1/1

    Ir
1/4

                           NON-WOVEN ROOF INSULATION METHODS AND PRODUCTS
    FIELD OF THE INVENTION
    This invention relates to methods of forming non-woven roof blankets using textile glass fibres
  5 bonded into a matt and then laminated with metal foil, for use as roof insulation.
    BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
    Roof blanket fibre glass insulation bonded to foil has now become recommended in the building
    code. It has reflective heat qualities that can help reduce the energy loads placed upon electricity
 .0 generators by heating and cooling. It also has a sound deadening effect. Glass fibre roof insulation is
    available with a range of quality and cost but has not previously made use of textile fibres bonded
    with polyester melt fibre.
    Glass fibre insulation may be laminated to foil and installed as a roof blanket under colour bond or
    corrugated iron. The blankets are placed or rolled out along steel or timber trusses which support
 .5 the roof and the metal roof sheets are then laid on top. The combination of metal roof over
    insulation with foil is typically fastened onto the roof trusses using screws.
    Previous attempts to use roof blankets made from insulation containing textile glass fibre and a
    binder component have generally failed, in comparison with fibre glass. The fastening screws tend
    to heat and twist the textile glass fibre in the blanket to create a thickening effect which prevents
20  the screws from properly engaging the truss.
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    It is an object of the invention to provide for improved non-woven roof insulation products, or at
    least to provide a useful alternative to existing roof insulation products.
25  In one aspect the invention resides in a method of forming a non-woven roof insulation product
    including: providing a source of short textile glass fibres, providing a source of polyester binder
    fibres, combining the textile fibres and the binder fibres into a mat, curing the mat so that the binder
    fibres bond the textile fibres, and laminating with a fire resistant foil.
                                                        1/4

    In another aspect the invention resides in a method of forming a non-woven insulation product
    including: providing a source of short textile glass fibres, providing a source of polyester binder,
    forming the textile fibres into a mat, adding the fibre binder to the mat, curing the mat so that the
    binder bonds the textile fibres, and laminating the mat with foil.
  5 The mat may be cut into product portions before or after lamination. Preferably the mat has a
    thickness greater than about 50mm to 150mm and is formed by an air laying process or a cross
    lapping process.
    Preferably the textile glass fibres are provided as short strands having lengths of about 10-40mm,
    such as about 30mm within 10%. Preferably the polyester fibres are also short having a length of
 .0 about 5-30mm, perhaps about 6-22mm. Preferably the textile fibres are starch coated textile fibres
    with an average diameter of about 6-9microns.
    In a further aspect the invention resides in a roof insulation product formed from short strand glass
    fibres with a binder component and laminated to medium weight with a fire resistant foil. The
    binder may be melt fibres or powder resin for example.
 .5
    LIST OF FIGURES
    Preferred embodiments of the invention will be described with respect to the accompanying
    drawings, in which:
    Figure 1 shows a process for forming a non-woven roof insulation product.
20  Figure 2 shows an alternative process for forming a non-woven roof insulation product.
    Figures 3 and 4 provide test data for a range of trial products.
    DESCRIPTION OF PREFERRED EMBODIMENTS
    Referring to the drawings it will be appreciated that the invention may be performed in a range of
25  different processes using a range of short textile fibres, typically less than 50mm in length. The
    embodiments described here are given by way of example only. It will also be appreciated that the
    air-laying and cross-lapping processes need not be described in detail.
                                                        2/4

    Figure 1 schematically shows the main components of an insulation manufacturing process in which
    short strand fibres from a number of sources are blended and formed into a relatively high lofted
    mat, which can then be cured and cut into a product such as rolls, for example. In each case at least
    one of the sources includes textile fibres. These are typically glass fibres coated with a starch which
  5 reduces irritation when the products are handled and allows recovery of the product shape when
    compression due to packaging is removed.
    Textile fibres are themselves usually manufactured by a direct melt process in which melted glass
    flows into a forming section having moulded outlet bushings which form the fibres. These are drawn
    over a coating device which applies a starch finish before they are wound onto a forming tube. The
 .0 tube is placed in an oven where the resin is dried resulting in fibres which may be processed into
    rovings or chopped strand webs, for example. For conventional insulation the fibre lengths are
    relatively long, about 50-60mm.
    The starch which coats these fibres may have several functions. It generally lubricates the fibre,
    reduces fibre rigidity, reduces abrasion and skin irritation, protects the fibre from attack by
 .5 moisture, and provides strand and packaging integrity. Starch is a polymeric carbohydrate consisting
    of a large number of glucose units joined by glycosidic bonds.
    In Figure 1, the fibre sources include two bins of textile fibres 10 and a bin of polyester binder fibres
    11, such as bi component melt fibres. The fibres from these sources fall onto a conveyor 12 to form a
    bed 13. The bed generally contains clumps of fibres which must be opened and mixed. Two coarse
 .0 opening stages 14 are provided in this example. These initial opening stages have been required in
    some cases to ensure that clumps of fibres are thoroughly worked and opened prior to the relatively
    fine stage which follows. The binder fibres are also preferably short strands, about 22mm plus or
    minus 10% in length.
    Static electricity created by the inorganic fibres must usually be reduced after the first opening
25  stage, and an antistatic system such as a water sprayer (not shown) may be required. The fine
    opening stage 15 is typically either an air-lay process or a cross-lap process, and forms a mat 16 in
    which the fibres are thoroughly combined. The mat is then cured in an oven 17 which partially melts
    the binder fibres so that the mat becomes a robust non-woven product 18. The mat is then cut into
    a required length and laminated 20 with foil, typically by a glue process, then rolled 19.
30  Figure 2 shows are generally similar process for forming a non-woven product 28. Short strand
    textile fibres from bins 20 are blended alone, with a binder being added in powder form by an
    applicator 21 before the mat enters the oven 27. The initial fibre bed 23 is formed on a conveyer 22
                                                        3/4

    and passes through two coarse opening stages 24. A fine mixing stage 25 such as an air-laying
    process or cross-lapping process is again used to form a mat 26. The components in this figure are
    typically the same as the components in Figure 1, although either may be varied depending on the
    product. It might only be necessary to have a single coarse opening stage for example. The cross
  5 lapper could be a textile card and cross lapper, or a camel back cross lapper, for example.
    The mat preferably has a thickness or loft of at least 50mm to 100mm. Products 19 and 28 are
    suitable for thermal or roof insulation in buildings and typically have a high loft of 50-150 mm and a
    weight of 500 to 1000 g per sqm.
    For the purposes of Figures 1 and 2, the textile fibres are preferably formed from chopped strands of
 .0 textile glass having an average diameter of about 6-9 microns and a length of about 10-40mm, or an
    average length of about 30mm plus or minus about 10%. The melt fibres are also preferably short
    fibres having lengths of about 5-30mm, or most preferably about 6-22mm.
    A typical test product used the method of Figure 1 and a blend of short strand fibres including 18%
    by weight of polyester low melt fibre (4 denier, 20mm length) and 82% textile fibre coated with
 .5 starch (6-9 micron diameter, 30mm length). A range of 15-25% melt fibre and 75-85% textile fibre is
    currently considered acceptable. The textile fibres are preferably E glass.
    Figure 3 shows test results for batt products formed using the method of Figure 1. The most suitable
    products were formed by blending textile fibres with melt fibres in an 80/20 ratio, where the textile
    fibres were textile glass fibre with a diameter of about 6-9 microns. These were coated with low
  0 irritant starch to provide good handling integrity, and required no protective clothing. They also
    provided consistently high thermal ratings.
    Figure 4 shows the expected characteristics of thermal resistance and thickness recovery against
    weight per unit area for the test products listed in Figure 3. These are useful for determining suitable
    weight and therefore cost of proposed commercial products.
25
                                                       4/4

   CLAIMS
   1. A method of forming a non-woven roof insulation product for steel or timber trusses, including:
   providing a source of short strand textile glass fibres, providing a source of binder fibres, combining
   the textile fibres and the binder fibres into a mat, curing the mat so that the binder fibres bond the
 5 textile fibres, and laminating with a fire resistant foil.
   2. A method of forming a non-woven roof insulation product including: providing a source of short
   strand textile glass fibres, providing a source of fibre binder, forming the textile fibres into a mat,
   adding the fibre binder to the mat, curing the mat so that the binder bonds the textile fibres, and
   laminating a fire proof foil onto the mat.
.0 3. A method according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the textile glass fibres have lengths of about 10
   40mm and the binder fibre is melt fibre with lengths of about 5-30mm.
   4. A method according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the textile glass fibres are starch coated E glass fibres
   with an average diameter of about 6-9microns.
   5. A laminated roof insulation product formed from short strand textile glass fibres with a polyester
.5 binder component.
                                                        1/1

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2704>
<U+2701>

    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2704>
<U+2701>

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
    <U+2706>   <U+260E>   <U+2701>
            <U+2702>
<U+2704>
<U+2701>

            <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+2701>
<U+2701>
    <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E>

