                                               ABSTRACT
  A computerised method of distributing money from an investor to at least one beneficiary is
  disclosed. The method includes the steps of: establishing a first insurance bond, the insurance bond
  having an investor; capturing data for a second insurance bond, the second insurance bond having a
5 beneficiary, the data including the name of the beneficiary; determining a date of death of the
  investor; computing a value of the first insurance bond at a point in time on or soon after the date of
  death of the investor; and processing the captured data for the second insurance bond and enacting
  the second insurance bond to enable commencement of an annuity to the beneficiary.

      A COMPUTERISED METHOD OF TRANSFERRING WEALTH FROM AN INVESTOR
                                            TO A BENEFICIARY
   This application is a Divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2015275272, the entire
 5 contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.
   FIELD
   The present invention relates to computerised financial products and methods of transferring wealth
   after death.
   BACKGROUND
10 Investors wishing to arrange transfer of wealth to a relative or a friend (or any other person or
   entity) after their death may have a number of objectives. They may wish to control the way in
   which the beneficiary (or beneficiaries) draws down on any wealth transferred to them. For
   example, an investor may want a child to have access to an investment product after the investor's
   death but not before the beneficiary reaches the age of thirty. They may wish the beneficiary to
15 receive an annuity, a lump sum or a combination of both. Investors may also want to have a life
   insurance policy associated with their investment. In addition to the above, investors generally
   prefer to minimise and/or simplify their tax liabilities and the tax liabilities of their beneficiaries.
   Due to the complexity in meeting all or some of the abovementioned objectives, investors often seek
20 advice from lawyers, accountants, financial planners and/or other advisors to tailor their legal and
   financial products (including, for example, testamentary trusts).
   It is an object of the present invention to provide a method of and a system for transferring wealth
   from an investor to a beneficiary that meets at least some of the above needs or at least offers a
25 useful choice.
   SUMMARY
   According to a first aspect of the invention there is provided a computerised method of providing
   for transferring of wealth from an investor to at least one beneficiary, the method including the steps
   of:
30 (i)      receiving money from an investor and establishing a first insurance bond, the first insurance
   bond paying corporate tax on investment earnings;
   (ii)      capturing data from the investor in relation to at least a second insurance bond, the second
   insurance bond having a beneficiary, the data including the name of the beneficiary and information
   relating to a desired payment scheme for the beneficiary after the death of the investor; and
                                                        1

   (iii)     storing the captured data in a computer system,
             whereby, after death of the investor, the stored captured data can be retrieved, the second
   insurance bond can be established based on the retrieved data and the first insurance bond can
   cease, thereby providing a tax paid payment scheme to the beneficiary.
 5
   In one form, the information relating to the desired payment scheme for the beneficiary includes
   either a fixed dollar amount per annum or a percentage of second insurance bond's value per
   annum.
10 According to a second aspect of the invention there is provided a computerised method of
   distributing money from an investor to at least one beneficiary, the method including the steps of:
   (i)       establishing a first insurance bond, the insurance bond having an investor;
   (ii)      capturing data for a second insurance bond, the second insurance bond having a beneficiary,
   the data including the name of the beneficiary and information relating to a desired annuity payment
15 to the beneficiary;
   (iii)     determining a date of death of the investor;
   (iv)      computing a value for the first insurance bond and a point in time on or soon after the date
   of death of the investor; and
   (v)       processing the captured data for the second insurance bond and enacting the second
20 insurance bond to enable commencement of payment of an annuity to the beneficiary, the enacting
   of the second insurance bond including the transfer of the value of the first insurance bond to the
   second insurance bond.
   In one form, the method includes the additional step of:
25           enacting an automatic payment system.
   In a further form, the method includes the additional steps of:
             setting a payment amount and setting a payment frequency using the captured data for the
   second insurance bond.
30
   In a still further form, the method includes the additional steps of:
             paying the payment amount into a beneficiary's bank account at said payment frequency.
   According to a third aspect of the invention there is provided a method of providing for transferring
35 of wealth from an investor to at least one beneficiary, the method including the steps of:
   (i)       receiving money from an investor and establishing a first insurance bond, the first insurance
                                                        2

   bond paying corporate tax on investment earnings;
   (ii)     capturing data from the investor in relation to at least a second insurance bond, the second
   insurance bond having a beneficiary, the data including the name of the beneficiary and information
   relating to a desired payment scheme for the beneficiary after the death of the investor; and
 5 (iii)    storing the captured data,
            whereby, after death of the investor, the stored captured data can be retrieved, the second
   insurance bond can be established based on the retrieved data and the first insurance bond can
   cease, thereby providing a tax paid payment scheme to the beneficiary.
10 According to a fourth aspect of the invention there is provided a system for transferring of wealth
   from an investor to at least one beneficiary, the system including:
   (i)      means for receiving money from an investor and establishing a first insurance bond, the first
   insurance bond paying corporate tax on investment earnings;
   (ii)     means for capturing data from the investor in relation to at least a second insurance bond,
15 the second insurance bond having a beneficiary, the data including the name of the beneficiary and
   information relating to a desired payment scheme for the beneficiary after the death of the investor;
   and
   (iii)    means for storing the captured data in a computer system,
            whereby, after death of the investor, the stored captured data can be retrieved, the second
20 insurance bond can be established based on the retrieved data and the first insurance bond can
   cease, thereby providing a tax paid payment scheme to the beneficiary.
   According to a fifth aspect of the invention there is provided a system for distributing money from
   an investor to at least one beneficiary, the system including
25 (i)      means for establishing a first insurance bond, the insurance bond having an investor;
   (ii)     means for capturing data for a second insurance bond, the second insurance bond having a
   beneficiary, the data including the name of the beneficiary and information relating to a desired
   annuity payment to the beneficiary;
   (iii)    means for determining a date of death of the investor;
30 (iv)     means for computing a value for the first insurance bond and a point in time on or soon after
   the date of death of the investor; and
   (v)      means for processing the captured data for the second insurance bond and enacting the
   second insurance bond to enable commencement of payment of an annuity to the beneficiary, the
   enacting of the second insurance bond including the transfer of the value of the first insurance bond
35 to the second insurance bond.
                                                       3

   A specific embodiment of the invention will now be described in some further detail with reference
   to and as illustrated in the accompanying figures. This embodiment is illustrative, and is not meant
   to be restrictive of the scope of the invention.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF A PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
 5 A preferred embodiment of the invention is illustrated in the accompanying diagrams in which:
             Figure 1 is a system diagram showing the interaction between the first insurance bond (the
   original bond) and a second insurance bond (a wealth preserver bond).
             Figure 2 is a system diagram showing creation of the second insurance bond of Figure 1.
             Figure 3 is a system diagram showing the administration of and the interaction between the
10 first (original) insurance bond and the second (wealth preserver) insurance bond.
             Figure 4 is a system diagram having tables showing data and the administration of the
   interaction between the first (original) insurance bond and the second (wealth preserver) insurance
   bond.
             Figures 5 and 6 are system diagrams showing administration of the second (wealth
15 preserver) insurance bond auto payment system and withdrawal systems.
             Figure 7 is a system diagram showing administration of the switching of investment options.
             Figure 8 is a geographical map showing administration of the second (wealth preserver)
   insurance bond.
             Figure 9 is system diagram showing the environment in which the computerised method of
20 providing the transferring of wealth from an investor to at least one beneficiary operates.
   A computerised method of providing for transferring of wealth from an investor to at least one
   beneficiary is shown in Figures 1 and 2. The method includes the step of receiving money from an
   investor and establishing a first insurance bond. The receiving of money from the investor in the
25 form of movement of funds from the customer's bank to the bond issuer's operating account is
   shown in Figure 8.
   The insurance bond operates under the rules set by the government regulator as illustrated in Figure
   9. Under these rules, the investment bond is a "tax paid" investment where investment earnings are
30 taxed at the corporate rate of tax prevailing at the time. This tax is paid by the insurance bond
   manager, leaving the insurance bond owner with an after tax or tax paid return. This tax paid feature
   has a number of key advantages for investors. In particular, while the investor remains fully
   invested, he or she is not adding personal tax liability in the following areas:
         *    income tax
35       e    capital gains tax
                                                        4

         *   Medicare levy and surcharge
   The method further includes a step of capturing data from the investor in relation to at least a
   second insurance bond, for ease of reference now referred to as a "wealth preserver" bond, the
 5 second (wealth preserver) insurance bond having a beneficiary. The data capture step is illustrated
   in Figure 1 in the top section of the page on the left hand side marked "Setting the Wealth
   Preservers Parameters". The data captured includes the name of the beneficiary and information
   relating to a desired payment scheme for the beneficiary after the death of the investor. A financial
   planner or consultant, trained by field staff of the insurance bond manager, advises and assists the
10 investor in this step of capturing data. Again, this is illustrated in Figure 1 and in Figure 2. As
   Figure 1 shows, there may be one, two, three or more beneficiaries and hence corresponding second,
   third, fourth (and so on) insurance bonds (wealth preserver bonds).
   The specific data captured from the investor and relating to the beneficiary (or beneficiaries) may
15 include the data types listed in Figure 4 under the heading "Beneficiary Information". For instance
   the Beneficiary Information includes name information, address information, date of birth and bank
   details of the beneficiary. The data captured further includes information related to a desired
   payment scheme for the beneficiary after the death of the investor. Again, the data types are shown
   in the tables of Figure 4, under the heading Wealth Preserver Parameters. After the data relating to
20 the second (wealth preserver) insurance bond has been captured from the investor, that data is
   stored in a computer system. The data storage process is shown in Figure 8.
   Upon the death of the investor, the stored captured data is retrieved, the second (wealth preserver)
   insurance bond is established based on the retrieved data, and the first insurance bond ceases,
25 thereby providing a tax paid payment scheme to the beneficiary. These steps are shown in Figures 2
   and 3.
   The aforementioned computerised method provides a wealth transfer instrument which allows the
   investor to leave their investment to their nominated beneficiary in a specifically designed
30 investment product established in the name of their beneficiary upon their death. The
   aforementioned method allows an original investment bond owner to control a benefit paid to one or
   more beneficiaries. It also allows the original insurance bond owner to control the start date and
   frequency of benefit payments in an annuity. A significant advantage of this computerised method is
   that the original bond owner can choose to have benefits paid to their nominated beneficiaries at
35 regular intervals rather than being paid in one lump sum upon death, while the money invested in
                                                        5

   the second (wealth preserver) insurance bond continues to benefit from the same tax effective
   environment as the first (original) insurance bond.
   An annuity, for the purposes of this application, is an arrangement which can provide a lump sum
 5 payment and/or periodic payments to a beneficiary in return for the investment of funds by the
   investor. The date of payment of a lump sum to the beneficiary or the commencement date of
   periodic payments to the beneficiary will be specified by the investor and may be deferred for many
   years after the death of the investor. The beneficiary may also further defer the payment and
   commencement of benefit payments after the second insurance (wealth preserver) bond is
10 established.
   For example an investor may specify:
        "   a lump sum payment of the full balance 10 years after the death of the investor.
        *   periodic payments commencing 10 years after the death of the investor.
15      .   a combination: a lump sum payment equal to 5% (or any other %) of the investment balance
            on the  25 ' birthday of the beneficiary followed by monthly payments of $X until the money
            runs out.
        *   a lump sum payment equal to 5% (or any other %) of the investment balance on the          25  '
            birthday of the beneficiary followed by monthly payments of $X for 5 years until the
20          beneficiary's   30 ' birthday (or until the investment balanced is depleted) and if there are any
            funds remaining on the beneficiary's      30 ' birthday, the investment balance is to be paid in
            full on the beneficiary's 30' birthday.
   The computerised method of the invention allows bond holders more control over their funds after
25 their death, this may be particularly attractive to investors who have nominated beneficiaries who
   are minors and/or where large amounts of money are involved. The computerised method provides
   an easy to use and simple product that can assist financial planners and other advisors to cost
   effectively deliver solutions that otherwise would involve getting advice from solicitors,
   accountants or other professionals that traditionally assist with testamentary trusts for instance.
30
   The computerised method of the preferred embodiment of the invention allows for a second (wealth
   preserver) insurance bond to be created following the death of the first (original) bond owner with
   the following rules applying:
        1. If the first (original) bond owner dies before the beneficiary then the second (wealth
35          preserver) bond can be created - this is the standard case.
                                                           6

        2. If the beneficiary dies before the first (original) bond owner, then the funds from the first
            bond are paid to the estate of the first bond owner, assuming that no new beneficiary
            information has been received by the fund manager.
        3. If the beneficiary dies after the original bond owner, then the funds are paid to the
 5          beneficiary's estate or in accordance with any nominated beneficiaries for the second
            (wealth preserver) bond.
   Referring again to Figure 4 (under the heading "Wealth Preserver Parameters"), it can be seen that
   the wealth preserver parameters include;
10              *   Prescribed start date
                *   Annual entitlements
                *   Drawdown amount
                *   Payment frequency
                *   Minimum balance
15
   In the preferred embodiment of the invention, by default, the drawdown amount will be the annual
   entitlement. The administration of the automatic drawdown payments is shown in Figure 5. As the
   flow chart of Figure 6 shows, before payments can commence, Know Your Customer (KYC)
   information must be collected and the customer must be successfully identified in accordance with
20 any Anti Money Laundering (AML) laws. A second (wealth preserver) beneficiary can, once he or
   she becomes the bond owner, change the drawdown amount as follows. He/she can reduce the
   drawdown amount, or, increase the drawdown amount provided that it is less than the annual
   entitlement and it is less than any accrued annual entitlement not drawn down in previous years. For
   example, the second (wealth preserver) bond owner may have an annual entitlement of $30,000, but
25 for tax reasons decides not to draw that amount down for two years. This would accrue an unused
   annual entitlement of $60,000. The wealth preserver owner can then either drawdown the $60,000
   as a lump sum or can increase their regular drawdowns within the limits of the accrued annual
   entitlement and the normal annual entitlement that would apply. However, once the accrued annual
   entitlement has been used up, the drawdown must operate within the normal annual entitlement that
30 applies. Figure 6 illustrates the administration of withdrawals by the second (wealth preserver)
   beneficiary. As the flow chart of Figure 6 shows and as described in relation to Figure 5, before
   payments can commence, Know Your Customer (KYC) information must be collected and the
   customer must be successfully identified in accordance with any Anti Money Laundering (AML)
   laws.
35
                                                        7

   While the original bond owner (the investor), will specify default payment frequency as either
   fortnightly, monthly, quarterly or annually, the wealth preserver owner can change the payment
   frequency, the commencement date of the second insurance bond (the wealth preserver insurance
   bond) will be the date that it is created, that is, shortly following the notification of the death of the
 5 investor (the original bond owner) and the identification of the wealth preserver owner. The wealth
   preserver does not inherit the original start date of the original bond because the original bond has
   matured and "paid out" a tax free payment which has been deposited into the new bond (the wealth
   preserver). Therefore, the wealth preserver "10 years to become a tax-paid investment" starts at the
   creation of the wealth preserver.
10
   Access to the funds of the wealth preserver by way of a drawdown, may only commence on the
   latest of:
        -   the death of the original bond owner,
        -   the sixteenth birthday of the wealth preserver owner,
15      -   an optionally specified date.
   For instance, the original bond owner may want the wealth preserver owner to commence receiving
   an annual income of $30,000 paid fortnightly but commencing either on the death of the original
   bond owner or on the thirtieth birthday of the wealth preserver owner, whichever is the later.
20
   The wealth preserver bond will cease when it is depleted, when the wealth preserver owner dies or
   when the wealth preserver bond reaches a predetermined age (for example 99).
   The computerised method of providing for transferring of wealth described above may include a
25 feature that allows the second (wealth preserver) beneficiary (who becomes the wealth preserver
   bond owner) to specify nominated beneficiaries. It may also allow the wealth preserver owner to
   specify that the wealth preserver bond can create a further new wealth preserver bond.
   Referring now to Figure 7, it can be seen that the wealth preserver owner can switch money from
30 one investment option to another. Importantly, a switch is not treated as a withdrawal from an
   investment. Therefore, no personal tax impact results from a switch.
   Figure 8 shows an example of one possible geographic distribution of elements in a system for
   carrying out the various aspects of the invention described. Shown are elements associated with the
35 customer, including the customer's own financial entity such as their bank, a principle
                                                         8

  administration system including associated databases and backup systems, and accounting system
  overseeing much of the transactions involved in the application of the system.
  While the present invention has been described in terms of a preferred embodiment in order to
5 facilitate better understanding of the invention, it should be appreciated that various modifications
  can be made without departing from the principles of the invention. Therefore, the invention should
  be understood to include all such modifications within its scope.
                                                       9

   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
    1.      A computerised method of providing for transferring of wealth from an investor to at least
   one beneficiary, the method including the steps of:
 5          (i)     receiving money from an investor and establishing a first insurance bond, the first
   insurance bond paying corporate tax on investment earnings;
            (ii)    capturing data from the investor in relation to at least a second insurance bond, the
   second insurance bond having a beneficiary, the data including the name of the beneficiary and
   information relating to a desired payment scheme for the beneficiary after the death of the investor;
10 and
            (iii)   storing the captured data in a computer system,
            whereby, after death of the investor, the stored captured data can be retrieved, the second
   insurance bond can be established based on the retrieved data and the first insurance bond can
   cease, thereby providing a tax paid payment scheme to the beneficiary.
15
   2.       A computerised method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the information relating to the
   desired payment scheme for the beneficiary includes either a fixed dollar amount per annum or a
   percentage of second insurance bond's value per annum.
20 3.       A computerised method of distributing money from an investor to at least one beneficiary,
   the method including the steps of:
            (i)     establishing a first insurance bond, the insurance bond having an investor;
            (ii)    capturing data for a second insurance bond, the second insurance bond having a
   beneficiary, the data including the name of the beneficiary and information relating to a desired
25 annuity payment to the beneficiary;
            (iii)   determining a date of death of the investor;
            (iv)    computing a value for the first insurance bond and a point in time on or soon after
   the date of death of the investor; and
            (v)     processing the captured data for the second insurance bond and enacting the second
30 insurance bond to enable commencement of payment of an annuity to the beneficiary, the enacting
   of the second insurance bond including the transfer of the value of the first insurance bond to the
   second insurance bond.
   4.       A computerised method as claimed in claim 3 including the additional step of:
35          enacting an automatic payment system.
                                                       10

   5.       A computerised method as claimed in claim 5 including the additional steps of:
             setting a payment amount and setting a payment frequency using the captured data for the
   second insurance bond.
 5 6.       A computerised method as claimed in claim 5 including the additional steps of:
            paying the payment amount into a beneficiary's bank account at said payment frequency.
   7.       A method of providing for transferring of wealth from an investor to at least one
   beneficiary, the method including the steps of:
10           (i)      receiving money from an investor and establishing a first insurance bond, the first
   insurance bond paying corporate tax on investment earnings;
             (ii)     capturing data from the investor in relation to at least a second insurance bond, the
   second insurance bond having a beneficiary, the data including the name of the beneficiary and
   information relating to a desired payment scheme for the beneficiary after the death of the investor;
15 and
             (iii)    storing the captured data,
            whereby, after death of the investor, the stored captured data can be retrieved, the second
   insurance bond can be established based on the retrieved data and the first insurance bond can
   cease, thereby providing a tax paid payment scheme to the beneficiary.
20
   8.       A method as claimed in claim 7 wherein the information relating to the desired payment
   scheme for the beneficiary includes either a fixed dollar amount per annum or a percentage of
   second insurance bond's value per annum.
25 9.       A system for transferring of wealth from an investor to at least one beneficiary, the system
   including:
             (i)      means for receiving money from an investor and establishing a first insurance bond,
   the first insurance bond paying corporate tax on investment earnings;
             (ii)     means for capturing data from the investor in relation to at least a second insurance
30 bond, the second insurance bond having a beneficiary, the data including the name of the
   beneficiary and information relating to a desired payment scheme for the beneficiary after the death
   of the investor; and
             (iii)    means for storing the captured data in a computer system,
            whereby, after death of the investor, the stored captured data can be retrieved, the second
35 insurance bond can be established based on the retrieved data and the first insurance bond can
   cease, thereby providing a tax paid payment scheme to the beneficiary.
                                                        11

    10.     A system as claimed in claim 9 wherein the information relating to the desired payment
   scheme for the beneficiary includes either a fixed dollar amount per annum or a percentage of
   second insurance bond's value per annum.
 5
    11.     A system for distributing money from an investor to at least one beneficiary, the system
   including:
             (i)     means for establishing a first insurance bond, the insurance bond having an
   investor;
10           (ii)    means for capturing data for a second insurance bond, the second insurance bond
   having a beneficiary, the data including the name of the beneficiary and information relating to a
   desired annuity payment to the beneficiary;
             (iii)   means for determining a date of death of the investor;
             (iv)    means for computing a value for the first insurance bond and a point in time on or
15 soon after the date of death of the investor; and
             (v)     means for processing the captured data for the second insurance bond and enacting
   the second insurance bond to enable commencement of payment of an annuity to the beneficiary,
   the enacting of the second insurance bond including the transfer of the value of the first insurance
   bond to the second insurance bond.
20
    12.     A computerised method of providing for transferring of wealth from an investor to at least
   one beneficiary, the method substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to and as
   illustrated in the accompanying drawings.
                                                        12

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2736> <U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2737><U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2738><U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2739><U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+273A><U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+273B><U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+273C><U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+273D><U+2701>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           <U+2701> <U+2701>

