  Abstract
  This invention relates to an airborne electromagnetic survey system configured for geophysical
  prospecting comprising an aircraft configured to lift and tow via a tow arrangement during
5 survey operation in air in a flight direction and with a flight speed. The system comprises a
  frame with a frame front section in the flight direction and opposite a frame tail section
  configured to be lifted and towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement and to support a
  transmitter coil configured to transmit an magnetic moment for geophysical prospecting, which
  frame comprises multiple frame segments each frame segment comprising a first connection and
0 a second connection for connecting to another frame segment, a structural support providing a
  rigid structure between the first connection and the second connection, and a frame segment
  surface providing the frame segment with an aerodynamic profile in the flight direction, which
  aerodynamic profile is configured to provide aerodynamic properties to the frame, so that when
  towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement during survey operation in the flight direction, the
5 frame having substantially a fixed frame shape and substantially being in a fixed operational
  orientation. The frame may be a rigid frame.
   (Fig. 1)

             1/14
   4,5
                  2
50
        4,5       1
                       7
       17
                    18
            Fig.1I

   Airborne Electromagnetic Survey System with Aerodynamic Frame Segments; and
   Methods of Surveying using Such
   Cross-reference to other applications
 5 This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No. 2015222562.
   Australian Patent Application No. 2015222562 is a national phase application from International
   Application No. PCT/DK2015/050037, having a filing date of 25 February 2015, and claiming
   priority from Danish Patent Application No. PA 2014 70093. The full disclosure of these
   applications is incorporated herein by reference.
 o Field of invention
   This invention relates to an airborne electromagnetic survey system configured for geophysical
   prospecting comprising an aircraft configured to lift and tow via a tow arrangement during
   survey operation in air in a flight direction and with a flight speed. The system comprises a
   frame with a frame front section in the flight direction and opposite a frame tail section
 5 configured to be lifted and towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement and to support a
   transmitter coil configured to transmit a magnetic moment for geophysical prospecting, which
   frame comprises multiple frame segments, each frame segment comprising: a first connection
   and a second connection for connecting to another frame segment, a structural support providing
   a rigid structure between the first connection and the second connection, and a frame segment
 0 surface providing the frame segment with an aerodynamic profile in the flight direction, which
   aerodynamic profile is configured to provide aerodynamic properties to the frame, so that when
   towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement during survey operation in the flight direction, the
   frame having substantially a fixed frame shape and substantially being in a fixed operational
   orientation.
25 Background of the invention
   Geophysical prospecting by application of electromagnetic surveys where a primary
   electromagnetic field is generated to induce a secondary electromagnetic field in an underground
   formation has become widespread. During the last decades, survey systems for performing such
   prospecting have become airborne. An airborne electromagnetic system may comprise a tow
30 assembly connected to an aircraft, typically a helicopter, and further comprising a transmitter
   system for generating the primary electromagnetic field that induces the secondary
   electromagnetic field in the underground formation. The tow assembly tows a frame that
                                                      1

   supports the transmitter system and/or a receiving system. In other embodiments, the airborne
   electromagnetic system may be configured on an airplane.
   Such systems are known from patent applications W02004/046761 and W02009/105873.
   Electromagnetic survey systems for geophysical prospecting are disclosed in CA2514609C and
 5 CA2776708C.
   Generally larger primary electromagnetic fields have demanded larger frames and larger
   aircrafts. The larger frames covering hundreds of square meters require use of different materials
   and constructions. Besides larger frames also more complicated tow arrangements are provided
   to compensate for undesired effect such as changes in shape or changes in orientation during
 0 operation.
   Larger and more complicated tow arrangements have shown to be difficult to handle during
   flight.
   A one solution may be to use an "active" i.e. a propelled aircraft as a "frame" to support the
   transmitter, but such solution will introduce further complications.
 5 It is an objective to overcome limitations of the prior art.
   Summary
   This may be achieved according to an airborne electromagnetic survey system configured for
   geophysical prospecting comprising an aircraft configured to lift and tow via a tow arrangement
   during survey operation in air in a flight direction and with a flight speed. The system comprises
zO a frame with a frame front section in the flight direction and opposite a frame tail section
   configured to be lifted and towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement and to support a
   transmitter coil configured to transmit a magnetic moment for geophysical prospecting, which
   frame comprises multiple frame segments, each frame segment comprising: a first connection
   and a second connection for connecting to another frame segment, a structural support providing
25 a rigid structure between the first connection and the second connection and a frame segment
   surface providing the frame segment with an aerodynamic profile in the flight direction, which
   aerodynamic profile is configured to provide aerodynamic properties to the frame, so that when
   towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement during survey operation in the flight direction, the
   frame having substantially a fixed frame shape and substantially being in a fixed operational
30 orientation.
                                                      2

   It is understood that the airborne electromagnetic system may comprise a transmitter system for
   generating the primary electromagnetic field that induces the secondary electromagnetic field in
   the underground formation or the formation to be surveyed. The tow assembly or the frame may
   support the transmitter system and/or a receiving system in various configurations.
 5 The frame may be understood to be a "passive" frame that is aerodynamically stable and
   substantially in a fixed operational orientation when towed by an "active" aircraft. That is the
   aircraft is the propeller system and the frame is a support for at least and essentially the
   transmitter coil system. The frame may be configured for supporting other parts of the survey
   system.
 o Essentially the fixed frame shape is a rigid frame formed with a fixed shape. In an embodiment
   the gravity pulls the frame segments downwards and forms a sufficiently rigid frame.
   Furthermore, the aerodynamic properties may provide forces that are acting on the frame so that
   the frame remains in an essentially fixed shape during operation.
   The effect of having a frame with an essentially fixed shape during operation is that the
 5 transmitter coil being supported by the frame remains essentially in the same shape during
   operation and thus provides an essentially constant magnetic moment during operation.
   Furthermore, if the receiver coil is placed on the frame, it ensures a fixed position between the
   transmitter and the receiver coils.
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate that rather than providing a complicated tow
 0 arrangement with many compensation lines, providing frame segments with aerodynamic
   properties a fixed shape and a steady orientation may be achieved. This will improve the overall
   quality of the survey data. Alternatively, a simpler tow arrangement will be needed or a
   combination of an improved measurement and a simpler tow arrangement.
   In particular it has been found that even small deviations in shape will result in undesirable
25 measurements such as bias in the measurements.
   For instance, it has been observed that when an essentially planar configuration of the transmitter
   coil experiences deviations from a planar and horizontal orientation (say X-component), then
   other components (say Y- and Z-components) of the primary field excite undesirable fields in the
   underground formation to a disturbing level when it is desired to measure say X-, Y-, and Z
30 components of the secondary field.
                                                      3

   Furthermore, the aerodynamic profile may be configured so that it contributes to the frame being
   in an essentially fixed operational orientation. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that an
   orientation of the frame may be given as a normal or in principle any other fixed vector being
   defined from the shape of the frame.
 5 One effect of this is that more accurate or consistent measurements can be obtained. A further
   effect is that useful measurements may also be achieved at higher operational or flight speeds.
   In an embodiment the aircraft is a helicopter. A special advantage is that the helicopter can take
   off in remote areas and at places with little space. Another advantage is that a helicopter can
   operate more accurately. This includes areas with obstructions or at altitudes where an aircraft
 0 may not fly. The helicopter can operate at lower altitudes and hence get more detailed
   measurements from the Earth formation.
   Overall it becomes possible to operate a frame with a sufficiently fixed shape, in a sufficiently
   fixed orientation, preferably in an essentially horizontal plane, at a higher operational speed
   and/or at longer operational ranges.
 5 According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least one of the at
   least one frame segment is configured with an aerodynamic profile with a drag coefficient when
   towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement and during survey operation in the flight direction,
   the frame having a drag coefficient less than the drag coefficient resulting from using a frame
   segment with a circular cross section extending between the first connection and the second
 0 connection.
   It is understood that at least one frame segment of the at least one aerodynamic profile may have
   a drag coefficient that is less than the drag, had the least one frame segment been with a circular
   cross section.
   It is understood that prior art frames are as a whole or by connecting frame segments. A person
25 skilled in the art may have tried to obtain a rigid frame by constructing a grid- or lattice type
   frame structure. Likewise, the person skilled in the art would be occupied with obtaining a fixed
   shape and would at best use a frame segment with a circular cross section.
   It is understood that conventional ways would result in drag forces on the frame that are no less
   than the drag forces resulting from a frame with a frame segment with a circular cross section. In
30 fact, obtaining a more fixed orientation or fixed shape the person skilled in the art would
   construct a more complex structure such as a grid structure with a profile resulting in larger drag
                                                       4

   forces and then seek to compensate by having a more powerful aircraft or compensate forces by
   adjusting or altering the tow arrangement.
   It is understood that by using an aerodynamic profile, a person skilled in the art will configure a
   frame segment to active an aerodynamic profile that results in a drag force during operation that
 5 is less than using a frame segment with a circular profile. The person skilled in the art led in the
   direction of configuring the aerodynamic profile will appreciate that some experimentation may
   be needed to obtain an optimum result, i.e. a reduced drag coefficient compared to the drag
   coefficient of an equivalent frame segment having a circular cross section.
   In one view, a lattice structure will result in very turbulent flow during operation. Even a frame
 o section with a circular profile will result in a relatively turbulent flow during operation. As such
   an aerodynamic profile, that is better than the circular profile, is understood as a profile that is
   configured so that the turbulence is less. An aerodynamic profile with reduced drag according to
   this disclosure may have a transition to a turbulent flow at higher speeds.
   An effect of a reduced drag coefficient is that less tow power is needed for a particular operation
 5 than otherwise. This results in less fuel consumption, larger operational range, and possibility of
   higher operational speed.
   Another effect is that the wires in the tow arrangement can be thinner or lighter. This has the
   further effect that drag is further reduced.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least one of the
 o least one frame segment has an aerodynamic profile of an airfoil with a leading edge in the
   direction of the flight direction and opposite a trailing edge.
   In an aspect the airfoil is configured to stabilise the orientation of the frame during operation.
   By an airfoil may be understood a profile or cross section where there is distinctively a pressure
   side and a suction side. In an embodiment the lower side is the pressure side and the upper side is
25 the suction side, and thus at least one frame segment provides a lift or flight properties to the
   frame when in operation.
   In a situation where the lower side being the pressure side provides is towed through the air
   during operation, the frame segment will provide a lift force. Likewise the suction side may
   provide a lift force.
                                                        5

   The airfoil profile may be configured according to operational conditions at a certain operational
   speed or in an interval.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least one of the at
   least one frame segment has at least part of the frame segment surface configured as a vortex
 5 generator.
   Thus the vortices may onset at a certain speed or a certain angle of attack so as to generate stall
   so that at onset, the frame segment will reduce or all together loose lift. Thus such vortex
   generator may be configured so that the frame for a certain weight will have a profile that will
   have net forces in the direction of the gravitational field.
 o According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least one of the at
   least one frame segment has at least part of the frame segment surface configured for generating
   a boundary layer with a turbulent flow for a drag coefficient when towed by the aircraft via the
   tow arrangement and during survey operation in the flight direction, the least one frame segment
   having a drag coefficient less than the drag coefficient resulting from using a frame segment
 5 with a surface configured for generating a boundary layer with a laminar flow when towed by
   the aircraft via the tow arrangement and during survey operation in the flight direction.
   The effect of the boundary layer is that it may generate micro turbulence in such a way that the
   drag is reduced. One way this is achieved is that the vortex generator prolongs the transition
   from an essentially laminar flow to a turbulent flow. Another effect of the boundary layer may be
 o to induce a difference between one side and another side of a frame segment so as to effectively
   generate a pressure side and/or a suction side.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the at least one
   frame segment has an aerodynamic profile providing the at least one frame segment with a lift
   force when towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement and during survey operation in the
25 flight direction.
   In general a frame segment may be configured with an aerodynamic profile that will result in a
   lift force when towed at operational speed. This will reduce fuel consumption, extend the
   operational range, or allow for increased operational speed; or combinations thereof. The lift of a
   frame segment may also be configured so that parts of the frame have individual lift so that the
30 frame segment and/or frame maintain an essentially fixed shape and fixed orientation during
   operation.
                                                      6

   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least one of the at
   least one frame segment has an aerodynamic profile providing the frame with a lift force when
   towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement and during survey operation in the flight direction.
   Thus, the frame as such will experience a lift during operation. This means that the aircraft will
 5 essentially experience towing a lighter object that otherwise.
   In an embodiment each frame segment provides a lift. In another embodiment the frame
   segments are organised so that the frame as a rigid object results in lift.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system wherein at least one
   of the at least one frame segment has an aerodynamic profile providing the frame with a lift force
 o when towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement and during survey operation in the flight
   direction, which lift force is in the opposite direction and in the same order and less than the
   gravitational force on the frame.
   Thus, the frame as such will tend to maintain in certain orientation during operation. In an
   embodiment the aerodynamic profile is configured so that a force or moment is generated
 5 According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system wherein at least one
   of the at least one frame segment has an aerodynamic profile providing the frame with a
   stabilising force towards the intended operational orientation of the frame.
   A preferred operational orientation is so that the transmitter coil spans as large an area projected
   onto the ground as possible. The frame is essentially horizontal in this situation and the desirable
 o orientation is horizontal. In an embodiment frame segment is configured with an aerodynamic
   profile that will stabilise the frame and thus the transmitter coil towards the horizontal
   orientation.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least one of the at
   least one frame segment has an aerodynamic profile providing the frame tail section with a lift
25 force when towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement and during the survey operation
   providing a stabilising pitch moment.
   This will stabilise the frame that tends pitch due to changes in operational speed, direction, gusts
   or unexpected aerodynamic forces caused by changes in weight distributions.
   The frame may be rigid and thus the lift force will tend to press down the front or nose section of
30 the frame.
                                                      7

   The lift force provided to the tail section may be in the opposite direction of the gravitational
   force or it may be in the same direction as the gravitational force.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least one of the at
   least one frame segment has an aerodynamic profile providing the frame with a lift force when
 5 towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement and during the survey operation providing a
   stabilising roll moment.
   Similarly, such frame segment will stabilise the frame so as to maintain an essentially fixed
   orientation and to minimise or avoid rolls during operation. Such rolls may come due to gusts,
   side winds or changes in operational direction resulting in the frame experiencing sideways
 o forces that may cause the frame to swing or wobble.
   Such swings may cause undesirable generation of electromagnetic fields that would otherwise
   need to be accounted for and possibly eliminated. Alternatively, the operation must be halted
   until the swings including rolls have been damped to a sufficient degree for the prospecting to be
   continued or initiated. Such waits all together results in use of operational resources and thus
 5 limits the operation range.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least one of the at
   least one frame segment is configured with at least one spoiler configured to provide an
   aerodynamic profile with drag coefficient less than that of aerodynamic profile of the frame
   segment without the spoiler when towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement and during the
 o survey operation.
   In this embodiment the aerodynamic properties may be configured by means of a spoiler
   attached to a frame segment or the frame. The frame segment may be lattice structure or have a
   circular cross section; in either case the spoiler will provide the desired aerodynamic properties
   to either reduce drag or provide stabilising moments to maintain a fixed orientation during
25 operation.
   Likewise, a spoiler may be an addition to frame segments or the frame already being configured
   with aerodynamic properties. A spoiler may further enhance the stability. A spoiler may correct
   for minor deviations from a desired operational orientation or experienced increased drag. A
   spoiler may also be applied to correct for conditions during operation. This may be side winds.
                                                      8

   Also spoilers may be disposable and releasable. Thus a frame can be equipped with spoilers to
   optimise aerodynamic properties for e.g. transport and then be released to commence prospecting
   with optimised aerodynamic properties for prospecting.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least one of the at
 5 least one frame segment is configured with at least one spoiler configured to provide an
   aerodynamic profile that will provide a lift force to the frame segment when towed by the
   aircraft via the tow arrangement and during the survey operation.
   In particular, one or more spoilers may be attached to the frame to provide lift to the whole frame
   optimised for transport whilst allowing for less stability. In particular the spoilers may be
 0 configured to provide lift at a transport speed different from an operational speed.
   Spoilers may be configured to reduce drag, to stabilise pitch or to stabilise roll. Spoilers may also
   be configured to provide lift.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the least one frame
   segment has an aerodynamic profile that is adjustable.
 5 Thus, adjustments may be performed to further optimise the flight characteristics of the frame
   during operation and according to operational conditions.
   The adjustments may also allow for the frame to be configured optimally for transport and
   optimally for operation, i.e. surveying. As such the frame may have a transport mode and a
   survey mode.
zo In the transport mode the aerodynamic profile may be optimised to reduce drag and with a
   certain lift to reduce fuel consumption.
   In the operational mode the aerodynamic profile may be optimised to provide stabilisation to
   obtain a fixed operational orientation.
   In principle multiple operational modes may be configured depending on the particular
25 prospecting task and tolerances required.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the frame has a first
   aerodynamic profile with aerodynamic properties primarily for survey operation so that when
   towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement during survey operation in the flight direction, the
   frame having substantially a fixed frame shape and substantially being in a fixed survey
30 operational orientation; and a second aerodynamic profile with aerodynamic properties primarily
                                                      9

   for ferry operation, so that when towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement during ferry
   operation in the flight direction, the frame having substantially a fixed frame shape and
   substantially being in a fixed ferry operational orientation.
   Thus, the survey system can operate in two distinct modes. The operational mode may be
 5 optimised for stability of shape of the frame or the transmitter coil and for stable flight. The ferry
   mode may be optimised for transport i.e. speed and fuel consumption.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the first connection
   or the second connection is configured to form a rigid connection between one frame segment
   and adjacent frame segments.
 0 Thus, two adjacent frame segments may be connected to form an essentially rigid new frame
   section.
   Applying only connections (first, second, first, second, ... ) configured to form a rigid connection
   between the frame segments will result in an essentially rigid frame.
   A connection may be an interlock connection applied to connect a first frame segment to a
 5 second frame segment.
   A connection may be configured as part of a frame segment. In an embodiment one end of a
   frame segment may have a recess part (female) and the other end a complementary part (male)
   so configured that frame segments, when connected, form a rigid structure. In particular the
   connection is also configured so that frame segment cannot dislocate laterally.
zo According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the structural
   support is made of a composite material.
   Thus, providing sufficient strength and rigidity and at the same time a sufficient low weight.
   The structural support may be a beam or a grid. The aerodynamic profile may be provided by a
   separate layer or sheet. The structural support may also be formed as a shell that provides rigidity
25 and aerodynamic profile, in whole or in part.
   A composite material also allows for configuring the frame segment in the desired aerodynamic
   profile.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the structural
   element is made of a rigid material, such as
                                                     10

   - a fibre glass and epoxy type structure,
   - a aramide type fibre structure,
   - a mixed fibre glass and carbon fibre type structure,
   - an all carbon fibre type structure, or
 5 - a natural fibre type structure.
   A person skilled in the art will find that any one of those construction types or compositions will
   be suitable starting points to make the structural part of the frame segment or the frame segment
   as such. Refinement of the surface may be required to obtain the desired aerodynamic profile. In
   particular polishing the structure or applying a final layer such as paint or lacquer is considered
 0 parts of the construction process.
   A person skilled in the art will also appreciate that the types of materials are starting points and
   detailed information about the process steps are well described in the literature. In particular, a
   person skilled in the art will be able use aramide type fibre structures and to choose amongst
   different compositions of Poly-paraphenylene terephthalamide branded and almost generically
 5 known as Kevlar either in the literature or product sheets from suppliers including DuPont Inc.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system each first connector
   and second connector are configured to form a rigid frame.
   Thus, the frame will essentially form a fixed shape due to structural features of the connections
   between frame segments. It is understood that the frame may slightly flex or bend, but essentially
20 span the transmitter coil in a fixed shape.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least part of the
   structural element between the first connection and the second connection is a beam with a cross
   section with an I-profile shape.
   This embodiment provides a structural stability that reduces the flexing and bending of a frame
25 segment or the frame all together whilst at the same time using a sufficiently light construction.
   Also, an I-profile allows space for and/or protection of the transmitter coil. If so needed, an II
   profile may be used to further strengthen one or more frame sections and provide support for a
   desired aerodynamic profile. Finally, an II-profile may further protect the transmitter coil. In
   particular if the transmitter coil is located in between the Is.
                                                       11

   The structural element may be a beam, with an I-profile, extending between the first and second
   connection or the length of the frame section.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least part of the
   structural support between the first connection and the second connection is a grid type
 5 construction.
   An equivalent to the grid type construction may be a lattice structure. A person skilled in the art
   may construct a grid type construction by using elements with aerodynamic properties as
   outlined and connect those elements in a grid or lattice structure to provide rigidity or further
   provide rigidity.
 o In one embodiment a first and a second shell structure extend between a first and a second
   connection. At least one shell structure may have an aerodynamic profile as disclosed. The first
   and second shell structures may be arranged relatively to each other and connected by spacers
   providing the structural stability. The top bar in the I may be such shell structure and the bottom
   bar in the I may be such shell structure.
 5 Likewise, multiple shell structures may be configured relatively to each other to form a
   lightweight frame structure.
   The spacers may be configured with an aerodynamic profile in particular to reduce drag.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least part of the
   structural support between the first connection and the second connection is a shell structure
 o forming the aerodynamic profile.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least part of the
   structural support between the first connection and the second connection is a stiff foamed
   structure providing stiffness.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least part of the
25 frame segment surface between the first connection and the second connection is a shell structure
   forming at least part of the aerodynamic profile.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system at least part of the
   shape of the frame segment surface is formed by a sheet type structure forming the at least part
   of the aerodynamic profile.
                                                     12

   Such shell structure has been found to have a sufficient strength and an acceptable weight. The
   shell structure has an outside surface which is finished to obtain an aerodynamic profile as
   disclosed. The shell structure has an inside, which inside is configured to support the transmitter
   coil. The inside of the shell structure may further be configured to support or encapsulate survey
 5 equipment.
   A foam may provide further structural strength at a very low cost in weight. Furthermore, foam
   has the advantage of fixing the transmitter coil and even further protect the transmitter coil and
   other prospecting equipment. Finally, form can relatively easy be removed to change or repair
   equipment before possibly reforming the frame segment.
 o According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system wherein at least part
   of the shape of the frame segment surface is formed by a foamed material forming at least part of
   the aerodynamic profile.
   In such embodiment a structural element such as a beam with an I-profile may be fitted with the
   transmitter coil and possibly other prospecting equipment and then encapsulated in a foam that
 5 may be formed in the desired aerodynamic profile. A person skilled in the art may polish the
   foam or add a final layer of say paint or hardener to form a robust final surface.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the frame is a rigid
   frame.
   In an embodiment the frame is configured to be essentially rigid. In particular with respect to the
 o overall shape spanning the transmitter coil in essentially a plane.
   In embodiments the rigidity may be extended so that the frame does not easily bend either in
   front-tail direction or in the left-right direction. A person skilled in the art will appreciate that
   some flexibility in those directions may be acceptable for the frame not to be fragile or to cause
   bends on the frame during normal handling during take-off and landing.
25 A person skilled in the art will aim to make the frame rigid to a degree where stabilising forces at
   one part or end of a frame will transmit to another part or another end of the frame to an extend
   that the frame will act as a single structure without causing resonances or other counter forces.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey at least one of the least one
   frame segment has an aerodynamic profile providing the frame tail section with a lift force in
30 the direction of the gravitational force when the frame tail section is above the intended
                                                        13

   operational orientation of the frame to provide a pitch moment to bring the frame towards the
   intended operational operation.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey the least one frame segment
   has an aerodynamic profile providing the frame tail section with a lift force in the opposite
 5 direction of the gravitational force when the frame tail section is below the intended operational
   orientation of the frame to provide a pitch moment to bring the frame towards the intended
   operational operation .
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the frame has a
   polygonal shape.
 o One or more frame segments may constitute sides in the polygon. In particular a hexagon shape
   has been found to be advantageous. In such configuration two sides formed in an arrow in the
   flight direction may form a front section. Two parallel sides arranged in the flight direction may
   form a middle section. Two sides formed in an arrow opposite the flight direction may form the
   tail section. In an embodiment the sides have the same lengths, which span the transmitter coil to
 5 the largest extend. In an embodiment the hexagon elongated in the flight direction, i.e. the two
   middle sections are closer to each other compared to other opposite sides. Such configuration has
   been found to provide a balance between flight or aerodynamic properties of the frame and the
   area spanned by the frame.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the tow arrangement
 0 is configured to adjust the angle of attack of the frame to the direction of flight.
   Thus, the frame's orientation can be adjusted during operation. Furthermore, the frame or frame
   segments may have their angle of attack adjusted during flight. In an embodiment the
   aerodynamic profile or properties may for one angle of attack be configured for transport and
   with another angle of attack for operations
25 According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the tow arrangement
   is configured to attach to the frame by less than ten tow lines such as three tow lines or six tow
   lines.
   Configurations disclosed herein have been found to allow operation with a reduced number of
   the required number of tow lines or wires as otherwise found to be required. A further advantage
30 of this is that the tow lines or wires themselves amount to substantial drag during operation.
                                                     14

   Limiting the required number of tow lines thus further allows for operation at higher speed or for
   longer distances.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the magnetic
   moment is 500,000 Am2 or more.
 5 The embodiments disclosed herein are understood to support equipment for prospecting at those
   levels. A person skilled in the art may at the same time use multiple moments with lower
   magnetic moments. Likewise, standard equipment may also comprise use of a larger frame, ie.
   larger area, but use a smaller current.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the weight of the
 o frame and the transmitter coil is 350 kg or more.
   The embodiments disclosed herein are understood to support equipment for prospecting at those
   weights to achieve meaningful prospecting.
   In an aspect of the invention may be achieved by a frame or an airborne electromagnetic frame
   as disclosed.
 5 Such a frame may be an airborne electromagnetic survey transmitter frame configured for
   geophysical prospecting by an aircraft configured to lift the frame tow via a tow arrangement
   during survey operation in air in a flight direction and with a flight speed. The frame comprises a
   frame front section in the flight direction and opposite a frame tail section configured to be lifted
   and towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement and to support a transmitter coil configured to
 o transmit a magnetic moment for geophysical prospecting , which frame comprises multiple
   frame segments each frame segment comprising a first connection and a second connection for
   connecting to another frame segment , a structural support providing a rigid structure between
   the first connection and the second connection, a frame segment surface providing the frame
   segment with an aerodynamic profile in the flight direction, which aerodynamic profile is
25 configured to provide aerodynamic properties to the frame, where multiple segments are
   configured to support the transmitter coil so that the frame substantially defines the shape of the
   transmitter coil and so that the frame is substantially rigid. The frame is arranged and so that
   when towed by the aircraft via the tow arrangement during survey operation in the flight
   direction, the frame having substantially a fixed frame shape and being substantially in a fixed
30 operational orientation when the frame experiences a true air speed.
   The frame may also be configured to support the receiver including a receiver coil arrangement.
                                                      15

   A person skilled in the art and with experience airborne geological surveys or flight in general
   will know that some adjustments may be needed. However, the person skilled in the art will
   certainly appreciate that means or features are provided for such adjustments. In particular a
   person skilled in the art facing divergence from the desired behaviour will readily or with some
 5 trial and error be enabled to perform corrective measures by adjusting the aerodynamic
   properties of the frame to achieve operation of a frame that is substantially a fixed frame shape
   and being substantially in a fixed operational orientation when the frame experiences a true air
   speed.
   According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system or a frame, the
 o frame may have a port side and starboard side each comprising at least one section of at least one
   frame segment where each part side section and starboard section is essentially parallel to the
   flight direction, and where each frame segment in the sections may have a cross section profile
   that is elongated in the vertical direction.
   Such profiles of the side segments of the frame may reduce or eliminate the effects of side winds
 5 or gusts during operation. Such winds or gusts may shift the angle of attach in the flight direction
   and adversely affect the stability or flight. In particular it has been found that such elongated
   members will result in tight tow lines which is important for not only the stability of the frame,
   but also the operator/pilot of the system since slag tow lines requires operational attendance and
   procedures to correct the slag tow lines.
 o According to a particular embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system or a frame,
   the frame may have a port side and starboard side each comprising at least one section of at least
   one frame segment where each part side section and starboard section is essentially parallel to
   the flight direction, and where each frame segment in the sections has a cross section profile that
   is essentially elliptical with the major axis essentially oriented in the vertical direction.
25 According to an embodiment of the airborne electromagnetic survey system the aerodynamic
   profile is configured to maintain the frame substantially in a fixed operational orientation such as
   substantially horizontal at least at a flight speed of 140 km/h or above, preferably 150 km/h or
   above and more preferably 170 km/h or above.
   In an embodiment the frame is configured to be towed by aircraft that is a helicopter and
30 configured to operate at a flight speed of 100 km/h or above and so that the frame having
   substantially a fixed frame shape and substantially being in a fixed operational orientation.
                                                      16

   The use embodiments as disclosed and of a frame or frame segments with aerodynamic
   properties as disclosed will allow for operation at higher speeds than hereto known. In particular
   it will be possible to perform surveys at those speeds with a helicopter rather than an airplane.
   This is advantageous when operating in remote areas where helicopters can land or take off. This
 5 is also advantageous in operational conditions where a helicopter has flying access contrary to
   aircrafts. This may be places with mountains or with infrastructure.
   In an embodiment the method of geophysical prospecting is using an airborne electromagnetic
   survey system as disclosed and wherein the aircraft is a helicopter and the flight speed is 140
   km/h or above, preferably 150 km/h or above, and more preferably 170 km/h or above.
 o A skilled person in the art of performing airborne electromagnetic surveys or aircraft personnel
   will appreciate that flight speed and apparent flow velocity during operation may be understood
   in terms of more detailed term and may be functions of indicators such as IAS - Indicated Air
   Speed, CAS - Calibrated Air Speed, TAS - True Air Speed, and GS - Ground Speed.
   As such the flight speed is understood as a speed during operation.
 5 These measures take weather and wind conditions into account. When there is no wind, the flight
   speed will essentially be identical to the ground speed. When there is a wind the flight speed may
   take the wind conditions into account as well as the flight
   For all practical or operational purposes the operator or pilot will be able to perform readings
   primarily instrumental readings - more effectively by having the frame or system disclosed,
 0 since the stability of the frame during a variety of the circumstances will allow the pilot to focus
   on flying more stable with higher speed. Such additional effect has shown or will show to further
   enhance the quality of the airborne geophysical survey and at faster speed.
   Brief Description of Drawings
   Embodiments of the invention will be described in the figures, whereon:
25 Figure 1 illustrates an aircraft with a tow arrangement and a frame during survey operation in a
   flight direction;
   Figure 2 illustrates a frame with frame segments and a transmitter coil arranged to transmit a
   magnetic moment for geophysical prospecting;
   Figure 3 illustrates forces, gravitational, lift, and drag forces, acting on a frame during survey
30 operation in a flight direction as well as an operational orientation that can yaw, pitch, and roll;
                                                        17

   Figure 4 illustrates various aerodynamic profiles of cross sections of a frame section;
   Figure 5 illustrates embodiments of parts of a frame section having an airfoil aerodynamic
   profile and is structurally supported by a beam with an I-profile;
   Figure 6 illustrates various spoiler arrangements in connection with aerodynamic profiles;
 5 Figure 7 illustrates the drag force as a function of air or apparent flow velocity for a beam with
   an I-profile, a tube with circular profile, and a frame segment with an airfoil aerodynamic
   profile;
   Figure 8 illustrates forces on a frame with reduced drag during operation using a helicopter;
   Figure 9 illustrates forces on a frame providing lift during operation using a helicopter;
 0 Figure 10 illustrates features of lattice or grid structure, here formed as an I-profile where each
   structural element having an aerodynamic profile;
   Figure 11 illustrates features of a lattice or grid structure, here formed as a triangular
   configuration of structural elements each having an aerodynamic profile;
   Figure 12 illustrates aerodynamic profiles formed with a structural element with an I-profile;
 5 Figure 13 illustrates aerodynamic profiles formed as airfoil, with a pressure side and a suction
   side; and
   Figure 14 illustrates estimates of drag coefficients and lift coefficients of the aerodynamic
   profiles from figures 12 and 13.
   Detailed Description
20 Figure 1 illustrates an airborne electromagnetic survey system 1 configured for geophysical
   prospecting. The survey system comprises an aircraft 2 such as the shown helicopter. The
   aircraft 2 operates in a flight direction 4 at a flight speed 5 facing specific air conditions resulting
   in an apparent flow velocity 6 taking wind into account of the airborne electromagnetic survey
   system 1. The aircraft 2 lifts a frame 7 via a tow arrangement 8, which tow arrangement
25 8comprises more tow lines 9.
   During operation the aircraft 2 tows the frame 7 in the flight direction 4 at the flight speed 5. A
   person though the frame 7 essentially experiences the apparent flow velocity 6. A person skilled
   in the art will appreciate differences in operational conditions varying from windless or calm to
                                                        18

   gusty conditions. In essence the frame 7 will be operated in the flight direction 4 at the flight
   speed 5 and experience the apparent flow velocity 6. Operating in windless conditions, and
   disregarding possible air streams from the aircraft 2, the apparent flow velocity 6 is identical to
   the flight direction 4 and the flight speed 5.
 5 The frame 7 comprises frame segments 10, where each frame section 10 spans between a first
   connection 11 and a second connection 12 and is supported by a structural support 14. Each
   frame segment 10 may have a frame segment surface 15.
   Each connection 11, 12 may be configured so that multiple frame segments 10, 10 can be
   connected to form the frame 7. In the shown embodiment the frame 7 is formed as a polygonal
 o 16. Generally the frame 7 has a frame front section 17 facing the flight direction 4 and opposite
   that a frame tail section 19, and in between a frame middle section 18.
   Figure 2 illustrates a frame 7 with a frame front section 17, a frame middle section 18, and a
   frame tail section 19. The frame 7 is made of multiple frame segments 10. Each section 10
   supports a first connection 11 and a second connection 12. One frame section 10 may end in a
 5 second connection 12, which second connection 12 is also the first connection 111 of an adjacent
   frame section 10' and so forth. The connections 11,... 12,... may be configured so that the frame
   7 forms a particular shape. In the embodiment the shape is a polygon, specifically a hexagon.
   The figure illustrates a tail section 19 with a frame segment 101 having a structural support 141
   that may be tailored specifically for the frame tail section 19. Likewise the frame segment 101
 o may have an aerodynamic profile suitable for the tail section. The structural support 141 connects
   the first connection 111 and the second connection 121 tailored for the frame tail section 19 to
   active the desired overall form of the frame 7. Here the first connection 11I is a transition
   connection between the frame tail section 19 and the frame middle section 18.
   Likewise the figure illustrates frame segments 1011 for the frame middle section 18 and frame
25 segments 10111 for the frame front section 17 as well as first 1111, 11111 and second connections
   1211,12111 and structural supports 1411,14111, respectively.
   In one embodiment the frame segments 10 are identical. In one embodiment the structural
   supports 14 are identical, but the aerodynamic properties of frame segments 10 for the frame tail,
   middle or front sections 19, 18, 17 are different.
30 In an embodiment, the frame segments 10 are configured to form the frame 7 and configured to
   support a transmitter coil 20. The transmitter coil 20 is connected to a generator 21 generating a
                                                      19

   transmitter current 22. The transmitter coil 20 is supported by the frame 7 to span a transmitter
   area 24 so as to generate a magnetic moment 26 for geophysical prospecting 28 in an
   underground formation 29.
   The frame 7 has a frame shape 52 that essentially defines the shape of the transmitter coil 20. It
 5 is understood that the transmitter coil 20 may be fixed to the frame 7 so that when the frame 7
   has an essentially fixed frame shape 52 during operation, the transmitter coil 20 will also have an
   essentially fixed shape during operation.
   A person skilled in the art will be enabled to configure the receiving system including a receiver
   coil using configurations disclosed in references such as, but not limited to, W004072684.
 o Figure 3 illustrates forces acting on, rotations of, and moments applied to a frame 7. In particular
   to the whole frame 7, and to the frame front, middle, and tail section 17, 18, 19.
   Figures 3A and 3C illustrates a frame 7 and its orientation 54 as a normal to a plane of the span
   of the frame 7 as well as the relation to rotational definitions such as pitch 57, yaw 58 and roll 59
   in figure 3B. Similarly, for each axes a force may provide a stabilising moment 90 being a pitch
 5 moment 92, a roll moment 94 and a yaw moment 96.
   Figure 3A shows a frame 7 oriented in an orientation 54, which orientation for practical purposes
   may be defined as the normal to the projection of the transmitter coil resulting in the largest
   transmitter area A seen by the underground. In practice the frame 7 will be extending essentially
   in a plane and the orientation 54 is given in a natural way. Furthermore, the frame 7 with a
 o certain weight will have a centre of gravity 55 and experience a gravitational force 56.
   When the frame 7 is towed in a flight direction 5 at a flight velocity 4, the frame 7 having an
   aerodynamic profile 50 with a drag coefficient 60 resulting in the frame 7 experiencing a drag
   force 61 acting in the opposite direction of the flight direction 5 (ideally and disregarding the
   winds) when the frame 7 is towed by an aircraft. Similarly the aerodynamic profile 50 is
25 configured with a lift coefficient 62 that may result in the frame experiencing a lift force 63
   acting in the opposite direction of the gravitational force 56 when the frame 7 is towed by an
   aircraft.
   The aerodynamic profile 50 of the frame 7 is configured to enhance the aerodynamic properties
   of the frame 7 so that when towed by the aircraft 2 via the tow arrangement 8 and during survey
30 operation in the flight direction 4 the frame 7 is substantially in a fixed operational orientation
   54.
                                                      20

   Figure 3C illustrates that the front section 17 may be configured with an aerodynamic profile 50
   providing a front lift coefficient 64 resulting in a front lift force 65 during operation. The front
   lift force 65 is here shown to act downwardly as a corrective force. This front lift force 65
   contributes to stabilising the orientation of the front frame section 17 and/or the frame 7.
 5 Likewise the tail section 19 may be configured with an aerodynamic profile 50 providing a tail
   lift coefficient 66 resulting in a tail lift force 67 during operation. This tail lift force 67
   contributes to stabilising the orientation of the tail section 19 and/or the frame 7 during
   operation.
   A person skilled in the art will appreciate the influence of the tow arrangement 8 in terms of
 0 weight and take such shift of centre of gravity 55 into account.
   Figure 4 illustrates cross sections of a variety of frame segments with different cross sections or
   profiles, but the same cross section seen in the direction of angle of attack 53 as being the
   direction that the apparent flow velocity 6 attacks the profile.
   A is a simple beam structure. B is a grid or lattice structure. C is a circular profile. A, B, and C
 5 constitute part of prior art.
   D is a circular profile with a spoiler 82 attached to reduce drag. E is an elliptic profile with an
   aerodynamic profile with increased drag compared to C, but increased strength in the vertical
   direction and thus with combined improved properties compared to C. F is an elliptic profile
   with an aerodynamic profile with reduced drag compared to C, and improved stiffness in the
 o horizontal plane. G is an elliptic-type profile with a spoiler 82 resulting in an airfoil 72 type
   aerodynamic profile. H is a symmetrical airfoil 72 profile without intrinsic lift properties due the
   symmetries in lift properties of the suction side and the pressure side; for a direct angle of attack
   I is an asymmetrical airfoil 72 with intrinsic lift properties due the differences in lift properties of
   the suction side 77 and the pressure side; for a direct angle of attack. J is an asymmetrical airfoil
25 72 profile with an intrinsic pressure side and suction side resulting in intrinsic lift, for a direct
   angle of attack.
   Figure 5 illustrates a series of embodiments A, B, C, and D of frame segments 10 or parts of
   frame segments 10 in an apparent flow velocity 6 equivalent to an angle of attack 53 (not
   shown).
30 Figure 5A illustrates a frame segment 10 with a structural support 14 enclosed by a frame
   segment surface 70 forming an aerodynamic profile 50. In this embodiment the aerodynamic
   profile 50 may be considered as an airfoil 72.
                                                         21

   The supporting structure 14 may be a beam spanning the frame segment 10. The beam or support
   structure 14 may have an I-profile as indicated. The I-profile may support the shell or
   aerodynamic surface 70 at the widest location, but the I-profile may also be shifted slightly to
   absorb forces.
 5 The aerodynamic surface 70 may be defined by a shell structure also providing structural or
   stiffness to the frame segment 10. In an embodiment the shell structure in combination with a
   support structure such as the I-profile beam may provide a sufficiently rigid frame segment 10 to
   be part of a frame for aerodynamic electromagnetic prospecting.
   Figure A also indicates a leading edge 74, a trailing edge 76 of a frame segment 10. Also
 o indicated are a suction side 77 and a pressure side 78. The profile indicated may generally be
   considered the shape of an airfoil 72. The definitions are readily recognised in other illustrations.
   In B two I-profiles or an II-profile construction is illustrated. Such construction provides further
   stiffness and rigidity to the frame segment 10. Here a first structural element 14A having an I
   profile and a second structural element 14B are illustrated. This arrangement also provides a
 5 space between the Is that is particularly suited for a transmitter coil due to its protective
   character.
   Figure C illustrates a further addition of a vortex generator 80, here implemented as a strip that is
   added on the suction side.
   In another embodiment the implemented strip may configured to generate a layer of micro
 o turbulence that will extend towards the trailing edge 78 and reduce drag.
   Figure D indicates additions of a spoiler 82 to the frame segment 10 or otherwise the provision
   of a spoiler 82. Alternatively a part of aerodynamic profile being formed as an addition with the
   functioning of a spoiler 82.
25 For aerodynamic properties additions to a airfoil 72 profile, the addition maybe something
   mounted on, embedded into or added onto the surface or alternatively the surface may be formed
   or locally adopted to have the features and functions of an otherwise addition. As such the
   spoiler 82 shown on the frame segment may be either mounted on or locally formed as part of
   the surface.
30
                                                     22

   Figure 6 illustrates a variety of spoiler arrangements for aerodynamic profiles 50 in connection
   with an aerodynamic profile with a circular cross section 50, a symmetrical airfoil 50B, and a
   airfoil with inherent pressure side and suction side or inherent lift profile 50C.
 5 According to the invention a spoiler 82 may be added on one side of an aerodynamic profile
   50A, 50B, or 50C thus providing the circular profile 50A with enhanced aerodynamic properties
   such as reducing the drag relatively to not having the spoiler 82. Likewise for the symmetrical
   airfoil 72 profile 50B and the inherent lift profile 50C. The placements of the spoilers in figure A
   mainly result in reduced drag. It is, however, appreciated that such spoiler arrangement also will
 o contribute to lift.
   Figure 6B illustrates "symmetrical" arrangements of spoilers 82 both on the suction side 82S and
   on the pressure side 82. The effect of those placements is to further reduce the drag. A further
   effect may be to adjust the contribution to lift and even for certain angles of attack to reduce if
   not eliminate lift.
 5
   For the airfoil 50C profile the suction side spoiler 82S is different in shape or not symmetrical in
   shape since it accounts for the inherent difference of the suction side and the pressure side
   shapes. The spoilers aim to reduce drag without altering the lift properties - at least one angle of
   attack.
 0
   Figure 6C illustrates "asymmetrical" arrangements of spoilers 82 both on the suction side 82S
   and on the pressure side 82. The effect of those placement or arrangement is that they may at
   least to a degree maintain lift properties whilst reducing drag. The arrangement may also provide
   lift to the aerodynamic profiles.
25
   In all embodiments a person skilled in the art may have to perform some experimentation to
   obtain the desired effects outlined.
   Figure 7 illustrates drag forces 61 as a function of apparent flow velocity 6 for various
30 aerodynamic profiles 50 having a similar cross section as seen in the flow direction and being
   those of a frame segment formed as beam having I-profile alone, formed with a circular cross
   section, and formed as an airfoil 72. The advantageous effect on drag from those beyond circular
   cross sections is seen. Using a profile formed as an airfoil 72 is further advantageous. Overall for
   the same carrier forces available from the aircraft, the reductions in drag forces compared to
                                                      23

   those of a circular profile and in particular for airfoil shapes increase the operational speed or
   prolong the operational range.
   Figure 8 illustrates an airborne electromagnetic survey system 1 where the aircraft 2 is a
 5 helicopter operating in the flight direction 4 with a flight speed 5. The helicopter tows a frame 7
   in a tow arrangement 8. The frame 7 has an aerodynamic profile 50 with advantageous drag
   properties due to configuration as disclosed with respect to improving drag properties. The frame
   7 results in a drag force 61 and the weight in a gravitational force 56. The combined forces 68
   are compensated or balanced by a carrier force 69. For simplicity the forces from the tow
 0 arrangement 7 are not included here, but naturally it will contribute to weight and drag as will
   other system components such as generator, receiver coil and data logging equipment. From an
   operational point of view, the system contributes to a system weight force 104 that is constant for
   a particular configuration/operation i.e. independent of operational speed 5.
 5 The effects and advantages of configuring frame segments or a frame with aerodynamic
   properties can be understood when considering an aircraft envelope, and in particular carrier
   envelope 102 (as a function of operational speed 5 or apparent flow velocity 6) of a helicopter.
   The carrier envelope 102 is what the helicopter can carry as a function of its operational speed 5.
   Disregarding drag forces, the figure illustrates the maximum operational speed 5 V, 107 that the
 o helicopter can operate for a given system weight 104.V 107 is defined as where the carrier
   envelope 102 crosses the system weight force 104. Taking drag forces 61 into account it is clear
   that the operational speed 5 is reduced to V.d 108 (weight plus drag). V.d 108 is defined as
   where the carrier envelope crosses the system weight force 104 plus the drag force 61. The
   benefits from reducing the drag forces 61, i.e. the drag force 61 curve is lowered (or shifted to
25 the right), is that the operational speed 5 Vw-a 108 increases. Hereto the operational speed 5
   would have been increased by providing a more powerful or a different aircraft. Another solution
   could be to use airplane instead of a helicopter, but that would require complex modifications of
   the whole prospecting system.
   In continuation of figure 8, figure 9 illustrates the effect of a frame 7 or one or more frame
30 segments with an aerodynamic profile 50 with lift forces 63.
   The carrier envelope 102 tops and decreases for increasing flight speed 5. The system weight
   forces 104 are constant for flight or operation speed 5. Drag forces 63 of a particular frame
   increase as a function of flight speed 5 for a particular aerodynamic profile 50 with reduced drag.
   In this embodiment the aerodynamic profile 50 is also configured with lift and for illustrative
                                                       24

   purpose the lift profile of the lift forces 63 decrease (increase upwardly) for increasing flight
   speed 5. The combined forces of system weight 104, drag 61 and lift 63 (61+104+63) crosses the
   carrier envelope 102 and defines a operational max speed       Vd-.41 109 that is further above the
   operational speed   Vd+,  108 of an aerodynamic profile only configured with drag.
 5 A frame 7 may be configured with a lift profile that has a maximum lift (it may even peak) force
   63 for a flight speed 5 less than V, 107.
   Figure 10 illustrates alternative embodiments of part of a frame segment 10. In this embodiment
   the frame segment 10 is configured as a grid structure 10 or a lattice structure. An element may
   be formed as a shell structure with an aerodynamic profile 50A, here formed as an airfoil.
 o Another similar element may be formed as a shell structure with a similar aerodynamic profile
   50B here also formed as an airfoil.
   The two shell structures may be connected by a grid support 122 and arranged relative each other
   to provide a combined aerodynamic profile 50. In this particular embodiment the two shell
   structures are arranged on top of each other forming an I-profile. Such grid structure 120 has less
 5 drag and sufficient stiffness or rigidity compared to a circular tube with the same cross section
   and/or weight. The grid support may even be formed with an aerodynamic profile 50X.
   Figure 11 illustrates an embodiment of a grid structure 120 comprising three identical shell
   structures with identical aerodynamic profiles 50 arranged in a triangular arrangement each shell
   structure having its leading edge in the same direction. Such arrangement results in an even more
 o rigid structure at the cost of a relative small increase in drag forces caused by the additional grid
   support 122 necessary.
   Figure 12 shows particular I and II embodiments of frame segments 10. Both frame segments 10
   have aerodynamic profiles 50 due to a frame segment surface 70 that are essentially elliptic-like
   airfoils with optimised (low) drag coefficients. The frame segments are characterised by aspects
25 A/B-ratios, where A for a frame may be in the order of 136 mm and B in the order of 230 mm.
   To even further reduce drag, another aspect-ratio may be advantageous. For the II profile A may
   be in the order of 136 mm and B in the order of 325 mm.
   In both embodiments a structural support 14 with an I-profile is used to further support the
   structure. The support structure 14 may be a beam with the particular I-profile.
30 The frame section illustrated may be a shell type structure 86 forming the frame segment surface
   70. The interior may be filled or at least partially filled with foam.
                                                       25

   Alternative embodiments may be a foam structure 87 (not shown) or a sheet structure 88 (not
   shown). In an embodiment a foam structure 87 is achieved by casting foam to form the desired
   profile and a sheet layer may be added to form a sheet structure 88. In an embodiment a grid
   structure may be formed and covered by a sheet thus forming a sheet structure 88.
 5 Figure 13 shows particular III and IV embodiments of frame segments 10. Both frame segments
   have aerodynamic profiles due to a frame segment surface 70. Profile III is symmetric airfoil 72
   with improved drag properties compared to say profile IV. The profile does not have an intrinsic
   suction side 77 or pressure side 78 for an angle of attack along the cord of the profile, but for a
   different angle of attack, the profile will lift. Profile III is also characterised by aspects A/B
 o ratios where A for a frame may be in the order of 136 mm and B in the order of 443 mm.
   The actual shape is seen from the figure. Similar profiles may result from this as a starting point.
   Profile IV has an aerodynamic profile 50 as an airfoil 72 with intrinsic suction side 77 and
   pressure side 78. Thus the profile has lift for an angle of attack directly on the leading edge. The
   profile may have larger drag than profile III, but has higher lift than profile III.
 5 A may be in the order of 136 mm and B may be in the order of 443 mm. The actual shape is seen
   from the figure, and similar profiles may result from this starting point.
   The frame segments 10 from figures 12 or 14 or similar frame segments may be connected and
   connected rigidly to form a frame 7 that is essentially rigid and has aerodynamic properties with
   reduced drag. The structural element may also be a composite material or even a grid structure.
 o The space may be filled with foam to further strengthen the frame segment and to protect
   equipment by encapsulation.
   Figure 14 summarises estimates of drag coefficients 60 and lift coefficients 62 of the actual
   profiles I, II, III and IV from figures 12 and 13.
   Each profile may be a shell structure, where the shell is made of a composite type material. The
25 supporting element 14 has an I-shape profile and may also be of composite type material.
   Arranging frame segments with such aerodynamic profiles in a frame with a hexagon shape has
   shown to be operable to speeds up to 170 km/h towed by a helicopter and to maintain an
   essentially fixed shape and fixed operational operation.
   Item                                                            No
   Airborne electromagnetic survey system                           1
                                                        26

Aircraft                   2
Flight direction           4
Flight speed               5
Apparent flow velocity     6
Frame                      7
Tow arrangement            8
Tow line                   9
Frame segment              10
First connection           11
Second connection          12
Structural support         14
Frame segment surface      15
Polygonal                  16
Frame front section        17
Frame middle section       18
Frame tail section         19
Transmitter coil           20
Generator                  21
Transmitter current        22
Transmitter area           24
Magnetic moment            26
Geophysical prospecting    28
Underground formation      29
Aerodynamic profile        50
Frame shape                52
Angle of attack            53
Operational orientation    54
Centre of gravity          55
Gravitational force        56
Pitch                      57
Yaw                        58
Roll                       59
Drag coefficient           60
Drag force                 61
                        27

Lift coefficient             62
Lift force                   63
Front lift coefficient       64
Front lift force             65
Tail lift coefficient        66
Tail lift force              67
Combined forces              68
Carrier forces               69
Frame segment surface        70
Airfoil                      72
Leading edge                 74
Trailing edge                76
Suction side                 77
Pressure side                78
Vortex generator             80
Spoiler                      82
Composite material           84
Beam                         85
Shell structure              86
Foam structure               87
Sheet structure              88
Stabilising moment           90
Pitch moment                 92
Roll moment                  94
Yaw moment                   96
Aircraft/Carrier Envelope    102
System Weight Force          104
V,                           107
V,+d                         108
Vwd+1                        109
Grid structure               120
Grid support                 122
                          28

   With reference to the feature list, the application discloses embodiments and combinations of
   embodiments from the following items:
   Item 1. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) configured for geophysical prospecting
   comprising
 5 - an aircraft (2) configured to lift and tow via a tow arrangement (8) during survey operation in
   air in a flight direction (4) and with a flight speed (5),
   - a frame (7) with a frame front section (17) in the flight direction (4) and opposite a frame tail
   section (19) configured to be lifted and towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and
   to support a transmitter coil (20) configured to transmit an magnetic moment (26) for
 0 geophysical prospecting (28),
   which frame (7) comprises multiple frame segments (10, 101, 10II,       ... ) each frame segment (10)
   comprising
        -   a first connection (11) and a second connection (12) for connecting to another frame
            segment (101),
 5      -   a structural support (14) providing a rigid structure between the first connection (11) and
            the second connection (12),
        -   a frame segment surface (15) providing the frame segment (10) with an aerodynamic
            profile (50) in the flight direction (4), which aerodynamic profile (50) is configured to
            provide aerodynamic properties to the frame (7),
 0 so that when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) during survey operation in the
   flight direction (4), the frame (7) having substantially a fixed frame shape (52) and substantially
   being in a fixed operational orientation (54).
   Item 2. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to item 1 wherein at least one of
   the at least one frame segment (10) is configured with an aerodynamic profile (50) with a drag
25 coefficient (60) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and during survey
   operation in the flight direction (4), the frame (7) having a drag coefficient (60) less than the
   drag coefficient resulting from using a frame segment with a circular cross section extending
   between the first connection and the second connection.
   Item 3. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein at
30 least one of the least one frame segment (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) of an airfoil (72)
                                                       29

   with a leading edge (74) in the direction of the flight direction (4) and opposite a trailing edge
   (76).
   Item 4. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein at
   least one of the at least one frame segment (10) has at least part of the frame segment surface
 5 (70) configured as a vortex generator (80).
   Item 5. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein at
   least one of the at least one frame segment (10) has at least part of the frame segment surface
   (70) configured for generating a boundary layer with a turbulent flow for a drag coefficient (60)
   when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and during survey operation in the
 o flight direction (4), the least one frame segment (10) having a drag coefficient (60) less than the
   drag coefficient resulting from using a frame segment with a surface configured for generating a
   boundary layer with a laminar flow when towed by the aircraft (1) via the tow arrangement (8)
   and during survey operation in the flight direction (4).
   Item 6. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
 5 the at least one frame segment (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) providing the least one
   frame segment (10) with a lift force (63) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement
   (8) and during survey operation in the flight direction (4).
   Item 7. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein at
   least one of the at least one frame segment (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) providing the
 o frame (7) with a lift force (63) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and
   during survey operation in the flight direction (4).
   Item 8. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein at
   least one of the at least one frame segment (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) providing the
   frame (10) with a lift force (63) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and
25 during survey operation in the flight direction (4), which lift force (63) is in the opposite
   direction and in the same order and less than the gravitational force (56) on the frame (7).
   Item 9. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein at
   least one of the at least one frame segment (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) providing the
   frame (1) with a stabilising force towards the intended operational orientation (54) of the frame
30 (7).
                                                     30

   Item 10. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   at least one of the at least one frame segment (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) providing the
   frame tail section (19) with a lift force (63) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow
   arrangement (8) and during the survey operation providing a stabilising pitch moment (92).
 5 Item 11. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   at least one of the at least one frame segment (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) providing the
   frame (7) with a lift force (63) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and
   during the survey operation providing a stabilising roll moment (94).
   Item 12. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
 o at least one of the at least one frame segment (10) is configured with at least one spoiler (82)
   configured to provide an aerodynamic profile (50) with drag coefficient less than that of
   aerodynamic profile of the frame segment without the spoiler (82) when towed by the aircraft (2)
   via the tow arrangement (82) and during the survey operation.
   Item 13. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
 5 at least one of the at least one frame segment (10) is configured with at least one spoiler (82)
   configured to provide an aerodynamic profile (50) that provides the at least one frame segment
   (10) with lift force (63) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and during
   the survey operation.
   Item 14. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
 o the least one frame segment (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) that is adjustable.
   Item 15. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein
   the frame (7) has
        -   a first aerodynamic profile (50A) with aerodynamic properties primarily for survey
            operation
25 so that when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) during survey operation in the
   flight direction (4), the frame (7) having substantially a fixed frame shape (52) and substantially
   being in a fixed survey operational orientation (54A); and
            -a second aerodynamic profile (50B) with aerodynamic properties primarily for ferry
            operation,
                                                     31

   so that when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) during ferry operation in the
   flight direction (4), the frame (7) having substantially a fixed frame shape (52) and substantially
   being in a fixed ferry operational orientation (54B).
   Item 16. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
 5 the first connection (11) or the second connection (12) are configured to form a rigid connection
   between one frame segment (101) and adjacent frame segments (10II, 10111).
   Item 17. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   the structural support (14) is made of a composite material (84).
   Item 18. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
 0 the structural support (14) is made of a rigid material, such as
            - a fibre glass and epoxy type structure,
            - a aramide type fibre structure,
            - a mixed fibre glass and carbon fibre type structure,
            - an all carbon fibre type structure, or
 5          - a natural fibre type structure.
   Item 19. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   each first connector (11) and second connector (12) are configured to form a rigid frame (7).
   Item 20. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   at least part of the structural support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second
20 connection is a beam (85) with a cross section with an I-profile shape.
   Item 21. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   at least part of the structural support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second
   connection (12) is a grid type construction.
   Item 22. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
25 at least part of the structural support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second
   connection (12) is a shell structure (86) forming the aerodynamic profile (50).
                                                      32

   Item 23. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   at least part of the structural support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second
   connection (12) is a stiff foamed structure providing stiffness.
   Item 24. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
 5 at least part of the frame segment surface (15) between the first connection (11) and the second
   connection (12) is a shell structure (86) forming at least part of the aerodynamic profile (50).
   Item 25. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   at least part of the shape of the frame segment surface (15) is formed by a sheet type structure
   (88) forming the at least part of the aerodynamic profile (50).
 0 Item 26. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   at least part of the shape of the frame segment surface (15) is formed by a foamed material (87)
   forming at least part of the aerodynamic profile (50).
   Item 27. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   the frame (7) is a rigid frame (7).
 5 Item 28. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   the frame (7) has a polygonal shape (16).
   Item 29. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   the tow arrangement (8) is configured to adjust the angle of attack (53) of the frame (7) to
   direction of flight (5).
zo Item 30. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   the tow arrangement (8) is configured to attach to the frame (1) by less than ten tow lines (9)
   such as three tow lines (9) or six tow lines (9).
   Item 31. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   the magnetic moment (26) is 500,000 Am2 or more.
25 Item 32. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   the weight of the frame (7) and the transmitter coil (20) is 350 kg or more.
   Item 33. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claims, wherein
   the frame (7) has a port side and starboard side each comprising at least one section of at least
   one frame segment (10) where each part side section and starboard section is essentially parallel
                                                     33

   to the flight direction (4), and where each frame segment (10) in the sections has a cross section
   profile that is elongated in the vertical direction.
   Item 34. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claims, wherein
   the frame (7) has a port side and starboard side each comprising at least one section of at least
 5 one frame segment (10) where each part side section and starboard section is essentially parallel
   to the flight direction (4), and where each frame segment (10) in the sections has a cross section
   profile that is essentially elliptical with the major axis essentially oriented the vertical direction.
   Item 35. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding item, wherein
   aerodynamic profile (50) is configured to maintain the frame (7) substantially in a fixed
 o operational orientation (54) such as substantially horizontal at least at a flight speed (5) of 140
   km/h or above, preferably 150 km/h or above and more preferably 170 km/h or above.
   Item 36. Method of geophysical prospecting using an airborne electromagnetic survey system (1)
   according to any of items I to 36.
   Item 37. Method of geophysical prospecting using an airborne electromagnetic survey system
 5 (1) according to item 33, wherein the aircraft (2) is a helicopter and the flight speed (5) is 140
   km/h or above, preferably 150 km/h or above, and more preferably 170 km/h or above.
   Item 38. Airborne electromagnetic survey transmitter frame (7) configured for geophysical
   prospecting by an aircraft (2) configured to lift the transmitter frame (7) tow via a tow
   arrangement (8) during survey operation in air in a flight direction (4) and with a flight speed (5),
 o which transmitter frame (7) comprises
   - a frame front section (17) in the flight direction (4) and opposite a frame tail section (19)
   configured to be lifted and towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and to support a
   transmitter coil (20) configured to transmit a magnetic moment (26) for geophysical prospecting
   (28),
25 which transmitter frame (7) comprises multiple frame segments (10, 101, 10II,           ) each frame
   segment (10) comprising
       -    a first connection (11) and a second connection (12) for connecting to another frame
            segment (101),
       -    a structural support (14) providing a rigid structure between the first connection (11) and
30          the second connection (12),
                                                       34

       -    a frame segment surface (15) providing the frame segment (10) with an aerodynamic
            profile (50) in the flight direction (4), which aerodynamic profile (50) is configured to
            provide aerodynamic properties to the transmitter frame (7),
   where multiple segments (10, 101,...) are configured to support the transmitter coil (20) so that
 5 the transmitter frame (7) substantially defines the shape of the transmitter coil (20) and so that
   the transmitter frame (7) is substantially rigid; and
   so that when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) during operation in the flight
   direction (4), the transmitter frame (7) having substantially a fixed frame shape (52) and being
   substantially in a fixed operational orientation (54) when the transmitter frame (7) experiences a
 o true air speed (6).
   Item 39. Transmitter frame (7) according to item 38, wherein the first connection (11) or the
   second connection (12) are configured to form a rigid connection between one frame segment
   (101) and adjacent frame segments (10II, 10111).
   Item 40. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of items 38-39, wherein each first connector
 5 (11) and second connector (12) are configured to form a rigid transmitter frame (7).
   Item 41. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of items 38-40, wherein at least part of the
   structural support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second connection is a beam
   (85) with a cross section with an I-profile shape.
   Item 42. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of items 38-4 1, wherein at least part of the
 o structural support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second connection (12) is a shell
   structure (86) forming the aerodynamic profile (50).
   Item 43. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of items 38-42, wherein at least part of the frame
   segment surface (15) between the first connection (11) and the second connection (12) is a shell
   structure (86) forming at least part of the aerodynamic profile (50).
25 Item 44. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of items 38-43, wherein at least one of the one
   or more frame segments (10) is configured with an aerodynamic profile (50) with a drag
   coefficient (60) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and during survey
   operation in the flight direction (4), the transmitter frame (7) having a drag coefficient (60) less
   than the drag coefficient resulting from using a frame segment with a circular cross section
30 extending between the first connection and the second connection.
                                                       35

  Item 45. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of items 38-44, wherein at least one of the one
  or more frame segments (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) providing the frame (1) with a
  stabilising force towards the intended operational orientation (54) of the transmitter frame (7).
  Item 46. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of items 38-45, wherein the aerodynamic profile
5 (50) is configured to maintain the transmitter frame (7) substantially in a fixed operational
  orientation (54) such as substantially horizontal at least at a true air speed (6) of 140 km/h or
  above, preferably 150 km/h or above and more preferably 170 km/h or above.
  Item 47. Method of geophysical prospecting using an airborne electromagnetic survey system (1)
  where the frame (7) is according to any of items 1 to 46.
0 Item 48. Method of geophysical prospecting using an airborne electromagnetic survey system
  (1) according to item 47, wherein the aircraft (2) is a helicopter and the flight speed (5) is 100
  km/h or above and the frame (7) having substantially a fixed frame shape (52) and substantially
  being in a fixed operational orientation (54).
  Item 49. Method of geophysical prospecting using an airborne electromagnetic survey system
5 (1) according to item 48, wherein the aircraft (2) is a helicopter and the true air speed (6) is 140
  km/h or above, preferably 150 km/h or above, and more preferably 170 km/h or above.
  The above mention itemised embodiments is to be interpreted alone, in connection with the
  description otherwise, or in connection with the figures.
                                                   36

   CLAIMS
   1. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) configured for geophysical prospecting
   comprising
   - an aircraft (2) configured to lift and tow via a tow arrangement (8) during survey operation in
 5 air in a flight direction (4) and with a flight speed (5),
   - a frame (7) with a frame front section (17) in the flight direction (4) and opposite a frame tail
   section (19) configured to be lifted and towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and
   to support a transmitter coil (20) configured to transmit an magnetic moment (26) for
   geophysical prospecting (28),
 o which frame (7) comprises multiple frame segments (10, 101, 10II,          ) each frame segment (10)
   comprising
        -   a first connection (11) and a second connection (12) for connecting to another frame
            segment (101),
        -   a structural support (14) providing a rigid structure between the first connection (11) and
 5          the second connection (12),
        -   a frame segment surface (15) providing the frame segment (10) with an aerodynamic
            profile (50) in the flight direction (4), which aerodynamic profile (50) is configured to
            provide aerodynamic properties to the frame (7),
   so that when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) during survey operation in the
 o flight direction (4), the frame (7) having substantially a fixed frame shape (52) and substantially
   being in a fixed operational orientation (54).
   2. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to claim 1, wherein the frame (7) is a
   substantially rigid frame (7).
   3. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claims wherein at
25 least one of the at least one frame segment (10) is configured with an aerodynamic profile (50)
   with a drag coefficient (60) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and
   during survey operation in the flight direction (4), the frame (7) having a drag coefficient (60)
   less than the drag coefficient resulting from using a frame segment with a circular cross section
   extending between the first connection and the second connection.
                                                       37

   4. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claims, wherein at
   least one of the least one frame segment (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) of an airfoil (72)
   with a leading edge (74) in the direction of the flight direction (4) and opposite a trailing edge
   (76).
 5 5. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claims, wherein at
   least one of the at least one frame segment (10) has at least part of the frame segment surface
   (70) configured for generating a boundary layer with a turbulent flow for a drag coefficient (60)
   when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and during survey operation in the
   flight direction (4), the least one frame segment (10) having a drag coefficient (60) less than the
 o drag coefficient resulting from using a frame segment with a surface configured for generating a
   boundary layer with a laminar flow when towed by the aircraft (1) via the tow arrangement (8)
   and during survey operation in the flight direction (4).
   6. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein at least
   one of the at least one frame segment (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) providing the frame
 5 (10) with a lift force (63) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and during
   survey operation in the flight direction (4), which lift force (63) is in the opposite direction and
   in the same order and less than the gravitational force (56) on the frame (7).
   7. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein at least
   one of the at least one frame segment (10) is configured with at least one spoiler (82) configured
 o to provide an aerodynamic profile (50) with drag coefficient less than that of aerodynamic
   profile of the frame segment without the spoiler (82) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow
   arrangement (82) and during the survey operation.
   8. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein at least
   one of the at least one frame segment (10) has at least part of the frame segment surface (70)
25 configured as a vortex generator (80).
   9. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   least one frame segment (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) that is adjustable.
   10. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   frame (7) has
30     -   a first aerodynamic profile (50A) with aerodynamic properties primarily for survey
           operation
                                                     38

   so that when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) during operation in the flight
   direction (4), the frame (7) having substantially a fixed frame shape (52) and substantially being
   in a fixed survey operational orientation (54A); and
           -a second aerodynamic profile (50B) with aerodynamic properties primarily for ferry
 5         operation,
   so that when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) during ferry operation in the
   flight direction (4), the frame (7) having substantially a fixed frame shape (52) and substantially
   being in a fixed ferry operational orientation (54B).
   11. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein the
 0 first connection (11) or the second connection (12) are configured to form a rigid connection
   between one frame segment (101) and adjacent frame segments (10II, 10111).
   12. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   structural support (14) is made of a composite material (84).
   13. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein the
 5 structural support (14) is made of a rigid material, such as
           - a fibre glass and epoxy type structure,
           - a aramide type fibre structure,
           - a mixed fibre glass and carbon fibre type structure,
           - an all carbon fibre type structure, or
20         - a natural fibre type structure.
   14. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein each
   first connector (11) and second connector (12) are configured to form a rigid frame (7).
   15. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein at
   least part of the structural support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second
25 connection is a beam (85) with a cross section with an I-profile shape.
   16. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein at
   least part of the structural support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second
   connection (12) is a grid type construction.
                                                     39

   17. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein at
   least part of the structural support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second
   connection (12) is a shell structure (86) forming the aerodynamic profile (50).
   18. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein at
 5 least part of the structural support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second
   connection (12) is a stiff foamed structure providing stiffness.
   19. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein at
   least part of the frame segment surface (15) between the first connection (11) and the second
   connection (12) is a shell structure (86) forming at least part of the aerodynamic profile (50).
 0 20. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein at
   least part of the shape of the frame segment surface (15) is formed by a sheet type structure (88)
   forming the at least part of the aerodynamic profile (50).
   21. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein at
   least part of the shape of the frame segment surface (15) is formed by a foamed material (87)
 5 forming at least part of the aerodynamic profile (50).
   22. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   frame (7) is a rigid frame (7).
   23. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   frame (7) has a polygonal shape (16).
zo 24. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   tow arrangement (8) is configured to adjust the angle of attack (53) of the frame (7) to the
   direction of flight (5).
   25. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   tow arrangement (8) is configured to attach to the frame (7) by less than ten tow lines (9) such as
25 three tow lines (9) or six tow lines (9).
   26. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   magnetic moment (26) is 500,000 Am2 or more.
   27. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claim, wherein the
   weight of the frame (7) and the transmitter coil (20) is 350 kg or more.
                                                    40

   28. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claims, wherein the
   frame (7) has a port side and starboard side each comprising at least one section of at least one
   frame segment (10) where each part side section and starboard section is essentially parallel to
   the flight direction (4), and where each frame segment (10) in the sections has a cross section
 5 profile that is elongated in the vertical direction.
   29. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) according to any preceding claims, wherein the
   frame (7) has a port side and starboard side each comprising at least one section of at least one
   frame segment (10) where each part side section and starboard section is essentially parallel to
   the flight direction (4), and where each frame segment (10) in the sections has a cross section
 o profile that is essentially elliptical with the major axis essentially oriented the vertical direction.
   30. Airborne electromagnetic survey transmitter frame (7) configured for geophysical
   prospecting by an aircraft (2) configured to lift the frame (7) tow via a tow arrangement (8)
   during survey operation in air in a flight direction (4) and with a flight speed (5), which
   transmitter frame (7) comprises
 5 - a frame front section (17) in the flight direction (4) and opposite a frame tail section (19)
   configured to be lifted and towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and to support a
   transmitter coil (20) configured to transmit a magnetic moment (26) for geophysical prospecting
   (28),
   which transmitter frame (7) comprises multiple frame segments (10, 101, 10II,        ... ) each frame
 o segment (10) comprising
       -   a first connection (11) and a second connection (12) for connecting to another frame
           segment (101),
       -   a structural support (14) providing a rigid structure between the first connection (11) and
           the second connection (12),
25     -   a frame segment surface (15) providing the frame segment (10) with an aerodynamic
           profile (50) in the flight direction (4), which aerodynamic profile (50) is configured to
           provide aerodynamic properties to the transmitter frame (7),
   where multiple segments (10, 101,...) are configured to support the transmitter coil (20) so that
   the transmitter frame (7) substantially defines the shape of the transmitter coil (20) and so that
30 the transmitter frame (7) is substantially rigid; and
                                                      41

   so that when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) during survey operation in the
   flight direction (4), the transmitter frame (7) having substantially a fixed frame shape (52) and
   being substantially in a fixed operational orientation (54) when the transmitter frame (7)
   experiences a true air speed (6).
 5 31. Transmitter frame (7) according to claim 30, wherein the first connection (11) or the second
   connection (12) are configured to form a rigid connection between one frame segment (101) and
   adjacent frame segments (10II, 10111).
   32 Transmitter frame (7) according to any of claims 30-3 1, wherein each first connector (11) and
   second connector (12) are configured to form a rigid transmitter frame (7).
 o 33. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of claims 30-32, wherein at least part of the structural
   support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second connection is a beam (85) with a
   cross section with an I-profile shape.
   34. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of claims 30-33, wherein at least part of the structural
   support (14) between the first connection (11) and the second connection (12) is a shell structure
 5 (86) forming the aerodynamic profile (50).
   35. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of claims 30-34, wherein at least part of the frame
   segment surface (15) between the first connection (11) and the second connection (12) is a shell
   structure (86) forming at least part of the aerodynamic profile (50).
   36. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of claims 30-35, wherein at least one of the one or
 o more frame segments (10) is configured with an aerodynamic profile (50) with a drag coefficient
   (60) when towed by the aircraft (2) via the tow arrangement (8) and during survey operation in
   the flight direction (4), the transmitter frame (7) having a drag coefficient (60) less than the drag
   coefficient resulting from using a frame segment with a circular cross section extending between
   the first connection and the second connection.
25 37. Transmitter frame (7) according to any of claims 30-36, wherein at least one of the one or
   more frame segments (10) has an aerodynamic profile (50) providing the frame (1) with a
   stabilising force towards the intended operational orientation (54) of the transmitter frame (7).
   38. Airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) or transmitter frame (7) according to any
   preceding claim, wherein the aerodynamic profile (50) is configured to maintain the frame (7)
30 substantially in a fixed operational orientation (54) such as substantially horizontal at least at a
                                                      42

  flight speed (5) of 140 km/h or above, preferably 150 km/h or above and more preferably 170
  km/h or above.
  39. Method of geophysical prospecting using an airborne electromagnetic survey system (1) or a
  frame (7) according to any of claim 1 to 29 or a transmitter frame (7) according to any of claims
5 30 to 38.
  40. Method of geophysical prospecting using an airborne electromagnetic survey system (1)
  according to claim 39, wherein the aircraft (2) is a helicopter and the flight speed (5) is 100 km/h
  or above and the frame (7) having substantially a fixed frame shape (52) and substantially being
  in a fixed operational orientation (54).
0 41. Method of geophysical prospecting using an airborne electromagnetic survey system (1)
  according to claim 39, wherein the aircraft (2) is a helicopter and the flight speed (5) is 140 km/h
  or above, preferably 150 km/h or above, and more preferably 170 km/h or above.
                                                   43

                                       1/14
<removed-date>
                   4,5
                                              2                  1
<removed-apn>
                         8
                                                             9
              50
                             4,5                                 16
                                                   15
                                                                      7
                                  6
                                       11                        12
                                                        14
                                              10                          19
                             17
                                                        18
                                      Fig. 1

                                                        2/14
<removed-date>
                                             11II                     10
                  17                  14II           18                                    19
                               12II
              7
<removed-apn>
                                                     10II
                                           10III               10I
                                                                                           12I
                       11III
                                                                                     14I
                                             12III
                                14III                                     11I                    52
                                                                     21
                                                                                       22
                                                                                       20
                                      24                    26
                                                   28
                                                                                29
                                                     Fig. 2

                                             3/14
                  4,5
<removed-date>
                                       17           18      19
                                                                 63
                                                                  61
              A                  54                      62 60
                       50
<removed-apn>
                            55
                                                                      7
                                      56
              B                   59,94
                                                                 57,92
                  90
                                                                          58,96
                                      4,5
              C
                                                                 63
                             54
                                      64                                   67
                        65
                                                                 66
                                                                      55
                                      56
                                            Fig. 3

                        4/14
                                50
                  53
<removed-date>
              A
              B
<removed-apn>
              C
              D
              E                      82
              F
                                          72
                                               82
              G
                                           72
              H
                                          72
              I
                                           72
              J
                   6
                       Fig. 4

                                          5/14
                                                  77
<removed-date>
                                                                      10
                               74
                      6
                                                                76
              A                                                       70
<removed-apn>
                                                        50,72
                           14
                                    78                               10
                  6
              B                                                      70
                                                          50,72
                          14A                14B
                                                                     10
                          80
                  6
                                                                                10
              C                                                      70
                                                       50,72
                          14                                    10
                      6
                                                          70                             82
                                                   82
              D
                                                                                    70
                           14                     14
                                         50,72                             50, 72
                                         Fig. 5

                            6/14
<removed-date>
              50A          50B                  50C, 72
                    82              82                     82
<removed-apn>
          A
                    82S                                   82S
                                     82S
          B
                    82P                   82P
                                                          82P
                    82S             82S                   82S
          C
                     82P              82P             82P
                    82              82
                                                          82
          D
                           Fig. 6

                        7/14
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              61
                   50
                               50
                                    50,72
                                     6
                    Fig. 7

                                           8/14
              4,5
<removed-date>
                                              2
                                                              1
                    8                 69
<removed-apn>
              50
                                                                  61
                                                                       7
                                                        68
                        56
                                       102
                                                             61
                             61+104                                    104
                                      Vd+w        Vw               5
                                      108         107
                                        Fig. 8

                                          9/14
<removed-date>
              4,5
                                                 2
                                                               1
                    8                   69
<removed-apn>
                                                          63
              50
                                                                        61
                                                          68
                        56
                                        102
                                             61+104+63
                                                                   61
                              61+104                                             104
                         63
                                        Vd+w             Vw                  5
                                       108      Vd+w+l   107
                                               109
                                        Fig. 9

                                      10/14
<removed-date>
                    50
              120
                                         50A
<removed-apn>
                     50A
                         122
                               122                  50B
                     50B
                                                   50X
                                              10
                                     Fig. 10

                                      11/14
<removed-date>
                                              122
                          50
<removed-apn>
                                               50
              120
                           50
                           50
                                                          122
                                                     50
                                                    10
                    50A
                                50
                                     Fig. 11

                                           12/14
                                                    10
<removed-date>
              I
                    14
                                      82                            A
                   86
                                                         70
<removed-apn>
                                                   50
                                  B
                                                          10
              II
                         14
                                                                    A
                                                               70
                                                         50
                              B
                                      Fig. 12

                                       13/14
                                                10
                         77                            70
<removed-date>
              III
                              14
                                                            A
<removed-apn>
                                               50,72
                                   B
                         78
                                                10
                         77
                                                       70
               IV
                              14
                                                            A
                                               50,72
                    78             B
                                   Fig. 13

                                  14/14
<removed-date>
              60
                   Drag coeffecient
                                          IV
                            I
<removed-apn>
                                                                   III
                                                                         II
                                                                  53
                                                              Angle of Attack
              62   Lift coeffecient
                                          IV
                                               III
                                                          I
                                                                   53
                                                     II
                                                          Angle of Attack
                                Fig. 14

