                                                    ABSTRACT
   A method of radiation-free hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation comprises administering to a
   mammalian subject one or two doses of 2 to 10 mg/kg body weight of a purine base analog, such as
   6TG as a pre-conditioning step. The method further comprises engrafting into the subject hypoxanthine
 5 guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT)-deficient donor HSCs within 48 to 72 hours of the pre
   conditioning step; and administering to the subject about 1 to 5 mg/kg of the purine base analog every
   two to four days for two to eight weeks following the engrafting step. The method is performed in the
   absence of pre-conditioning via radiation. The subject is therefore not treated with myeloablative
   radiation in preparation for transplantation, and thus the subject is free of myeloablative radiation
10 induced toxicity.
                                                        25

         METHOD FOR COMBINED CONDITIONING AND CHEMOSELECTION IN A SINGLE CYCLE
   The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.<removed-apn>, which is
   incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
 5 This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application number 61/ 477,440, filed April
   20, 2011, the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. Throughout this
   application various publications are referenced. The disclosures of these publications in their entireties
   are hereby incorporated by reference into this application in order to describe more fully the state of the
   art to which this invention pertains.
10                      STATEMENT REGARDING FEDERALLY SPONSORED RESEARCH
   This invention was made with Government support of Grant No. A1067769, awarded by the National
   Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in this invention.
                                                    BACKGROUND
   Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is a mainstay of treatment for many hereditary disorders
15 and lymphohematopoietic malignancies (1). Furthermore, hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) in general
   represent an important target for ex vivo gene therapy. Gene transfer into HSC provides a potential
   strategy for both correcting monogenic defects and altering drug sensitivity of normal BM to cytotoxic
   drugs. These applications have significant therapeutic potential but have been limited by low gene
   transfer into HSC. Recent advances, such as improved cytokines for minimizing commitment during ex
20 vivo manipulation, fibronectin-assisted gene transfer and enrichment of HSC prior gene transfer have
   improved the efficiency of gene transfer into human cells and enhanced human gene therapy trials (2).
   However, the efficiency of gene transfer into HSC and the engraftment of large numbers of transduced
   cells remains a major challenge to broaden the application of this technology for the successful
   treatment of cancer and monogenetic diseases.
25  In order to enhance engraftment of gene-modified HSC and to decrease the time needed for
   lymphohematopoietic reconstitution after HSCT, in vivo selection strategies employing drug resistance
   genes such as dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) (3) or multiple drug-resistance gene 1 (MDR1) (4,
   US1 996/017660) have been tested but have generally failed due to unacceptable toxicity (5) or
   insufficient selection efficiency (6). Currently, mutant forms of 06-methylguanine-DNA
30 methyltransferase (MGMT) are being tested for their ability to confer chemoprotection against BCNU or
   temozolomide in combination with 06-benzylguanine (2,7, US1997/004917), but these agents pose a
   considerable risk of toxicity, and recent observations suggest that mutant MGMT may confer a selective
   disadvantage when expressed at high levels (8). In US2003032003AA a selection strategy has been
   described for selecting HPRT-deficient cells in vivo by 6TG. However, in this patent application either
35 irradiation is still used for preconditioning prior in vivo selection or in vivo selection is performed in cycles
   with recovery periods in between 6TG administration.
   Furthermore, the suggested 6TG dose is high and administrated over a long time period (200 mg/kg
   total dose over 55 days). In addition, an approach to inactivate HPRT expression in BM and
   subsequently select the donor cells with 6TG in vivo has been reported by Porter and DiGregori as
                                                             1

   "interfering RNA mediated purine analog resistance" ('iPAR'). This report demonstrated the feasibility of
   HPRT inactivation in HSC with a lentiviral vector expressing shRNA targeting Hprt and enrichment for
   these altered hematopoietic cells with 6TG in mice in vivo. However, in this report, pre-conditioning was
   still performed by total body irradiation, and in vivo chemoselection was not initiated until at least 4
 5 weeks post-transplant. In addition, 6TG was administered either as a short pulse or at dosages chosen
   to be only moderately myelosuppressive, and it is not clear whether adequate levels of HSC
   transduction were achieved by the second-generation lentiviral vectors employed in their study. Overall,
   the engraftment levels reported were variable and relatively modest.
   There remains a need for more effective methods of HSCT that avoid toxicity while reconstituting bone
10 marrow cells.
   References:
   (1) Bhattacharya D, Ehrlich LI, Weissman IL. Eur J Immunol. 2008;38:2060-2067.
15 (2) Milsom MD, Williams DA. DNA Repair (Amst). 2007;6:1210-1221.
   (3)Williams DA, Hsieh K, DeSilva A, Mulligan RC. J Exp Med. 1987;166:210-218.
   (4)Sorrentino BP, Brandt SJ, Bodine D, et al. Science. 1992;257:99-103.
   (5)Zaboikin M, Srinivasakumar N, Schuening F. Cancer Gene Ther. 2006;13:335-345.
   (6) Southgate T, Fairbairn LJ. Expert Rev Mol Med. 2004;6:1-24.
20 (7) Neff T, Beard BC, Kiem HP. Blood. 2006;107:1751-1760.
   (8)Schambach A, Baum C. DNA Repair (Amst). 2007;6:1187-1196.
   (9) Porter CC, DeGregori J. Blood. 2008;112:4466-4474.
   In vivo selection of primitive hematopoietic cells (Patent pubication WO/1998/019540) US1996/017660
   Use of mutant alkyltransferases for gene therapy to protect from toxicity of therapeutic alkylating agents
25 (Patent publication WO/1997/035477) US1997/004917
   In vivo selection (Patent publication WO/1997/043900) US2003032003AA
                                                     SUMMARY
   The invention provides a method of radiation-free hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation.
   Typically, the method comprises administering to a mammalian subject one or two doses of 2 to 10
30 mg/kg body weight of a purine base analog as a pre-conditioning step. The method further comprises
   engrafting into the subject hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT)-deficient donor
   HSCs within 48 to 72 hours of the pre-conditioning step; and administering to the subject about 1 to 5
   mg/kg of the purine base analog every two to four days for two to eight weeks following the engrafting
   step. The method is performed in the absence of pre-conditioning via radiation. The subject is therefore
35 not treated with myeloablative radiation in preparation for transplantation, and thus the subject is free of
   myeloablative radiation-induced toxicity.
   Representative examples of the purine base analog include: 6-thioguanine (6TG), 6-mercaptopurine (6
   MP), and azathiopurine (AZA). In one embodiment, the purine base analog is 6TG. In some
   embodiments, the total 6TG dosage administered to the subject does not exceed 105 mg; typically, the
40 total 6TG dosage administered to the subject does not exceed 75 mg. In one embodiment, the
                                                           2

   administering of purine base analog is performed every 3 days and for not more than four weeks
   following the engrafting step.
   Subjects treated in accordance with the method will exhibit over 75% genetically modified hematopoietic
   cells. In some embodiments, the subject exhibits over 95% genetically modified hematopoietic cells.
 5 The HPRT-deficient HSCs to be transplanted can be rendered HPRT-deficient using conventional
   methods known to those skilled in the art. Representative methods include, but are not limited to,
   introduction of sequences encoding zinc finger nucleases (ZFNs), transcriptional activator-like effector
   nucleases (TALENs), small fragment homologous recombination (SFHR) template strands, inhibitory
   RNAs (siRNAs) or microRNAs (miRNAs), antisense RNAs, trans-splicing RNAs, ribozymes, intracellular
10 antibodies, or dominant-negative or competitive inhibitor proteins. The transplanted HSCs can be
   autologous, syngeneic, or allogeneic.
    In some embodiments, the HPRT-deficient HSCs to be transplanted have been genetically modified.
   The subject may have a hereditary or genetic disorder, an acquired disease affecting
   lymphohematopoietic cells, such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection or acquired immune
15 deficiency syndrome (AIDS), or a lymphohematopoietic malignancy. The genetic modification of the
   donor HSCs can extend beyond rendering the cells HPRT-deficient, and also serve to treat or correct a
   condition.
                                     BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
   Figure 1A-1B. Optimization of 6TG conditioning regimen. (FIG. 1A) As a dose-finding study, HPRT-wt
20 mice were injected i.p. with vehicle control, or varying 6TG doses ranging from 2.5 to 10 mg/kg, as
   indicated, on Day 1 (n=3 per group), or with two doses of 10 mg/kg on Day 1 and Day 3 (n=3),
   respectively. On Day 4 after the first 6TG dose, paraformaldehyde-fixed bone sections were stained
   with H&E, and BM histology was examined. Representative photomicrographs (40 x magnification) are
   shown for each 6TG conditioning regimen. (FIG. 1B) Representative photomicrographs showing overall
25 and detailed BM histology at low (10x) and high (100x) magnification from HPRT-wt mice treated with
   control vehicle, or with the optimized conditioning regimen consisting of two doses of 10 mg/kg 6TG on
   Day 1 and Day 3.     Histological analyses were performed on Day 4, as above.
   Figure 2A-2B. Lack of progressive myelotoxicity after injection with conditioning doses of 6TG in HPRT
   deficient mice, and low engraftment rate with 6TG conditioning alone. (FIG. 2A) HPRT-wt and HPRT
30 deficient mice were injected i.p. with 10 mg/kg 6TG on Days 1 and 3. On Day 7 after the first 6TG dose,
   paraformaldehyde-fixed bone sections were stained with H&E, and BM histology was examined.
   Representative photomicrographs (40 x magnification) are shown.       (FIG. 2B) Treatment schedule:
   HPRT-wt female recipient mice (n=4) received the first conditioning dose of 6TG (10 mg/kg, i.p.) on Day
   -2, then were transplanted with HPRT-deficient male BM, followed by a second conditioning dose of
35 6TG (10 mg/kg, i.p.) on Day 0. BM was analyzed on Day 7 after the first 6TG dose. Paraformaldehyde
   fixed bone sections stained with H&E (40 x magnification) are shown.
   Figure 3. Dose-response and time course of chronic low-dose 6TG myelotoxicity in HPRT-wt vs. HPRT
   deficient mice. HPRT-wild type mice and HPRT-deficient mice were treated every 3 days with different
   dosages of 6TG or vehicle control (n=3 per group), as shown above each panel. For HPRT-wild type
                                                          3

   mice, histology was examined at the following time points up to 60 days after initiation of treatment:
   Vehicle control (Day 60), 6TG 0.25 mg/kg (Day 60), 6TG 0.5 mg/kg (Day 60), 6TG 1.0 mg/kg (Day 38),
   6TG 2.5 mg/kg (Day 28), 6TG 5.0 mg/kg (Day 22).         For HPRT-deficient mice, histology was examined
   on Day 60 for all animals. Representative photomicrographs of paraformaldehyde-fixed bone sections
 5 stained with H&E (40x original magnification) are shown.
   Figure 4A-4B. Optimization of combined 6TG conditioning and in vivo chemoselection strategy.
   Treatment schedule: HPRT-wt female recipient mice received the first conditioning dose of 6TG (10
   mg/kg, i.p.) on Day -2, then were transplanted with HPRT-deficient male BM along with a second
   conditioning dose of 6TG (10 mg/kg, i.p.) on Day 0. In vivo chemoselection was then performed with
10 repeated i.p. injections of 2.5 mg/kg or 5.0 mg/kg 6TG every 3 days for a period of 2 weeks (FIG. 4A) or
   4 weeks (FIG. 4B), as indicated. Representative photomicrographs of bone marrow from
   paraformaldehyde-fixed sections stained with H&E (40x original magnification) are shown.
   Figure 5. Long-term hematopoietic reconstitution after transplantation of HPRT-wt recipients with
   HPRT-deficient donor-derived BM using combined 6TG conditioning and chemoselection. Bar graphs
15 show the percentage of donor-derived cells in bone marrow (BM) and peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL)
   as determined by XY chromosome FISH analysis at 4 weeks (i.e., immediately after the end of the
   chemoselection period), and at 4 months, 7 months, and 12 months after transplantation, as indicated.
                                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   The invention provides a novel in vivo chemoselection strategy that exploits the essential role of
20 hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT)-mediated conversion of 6-thioguanine (6TG)
   to thioguanine nucleotide in 6TG myelotoxicity . Because HPRT-deficiency per se does not impair
   hematopoietic cell development or function, it can be removed from hematopoietic cells to be used for
   transplantation. The in vivo chemoselection strategy involves HSCT performed with HPRT-deficient
   donor HSCs using 6TG both for myeloablative conditioning of HPRT-wild type recipients and for a single
25 cycle in vivo chemoselection process of donor cells. The invention is based on the development and
   discovery of a dosing schedule at which 6TG induces selective myeloablation without any adverse
   effects on extra-hematopoietic tissues, while engrafted HSC deficient in HPRT activity are highly
   resistant to the cytotoxic effects of 6TG. With this strategy of combined 6TG conditioning and
   chemoselection, efficient and high engraftment of HPRT-deficient donor HSC with low overall toxicity
30 can be achieved. 6TG in vivo chemoselection allows long-term reconstitution of immunophenotypically
   normal bone marrow (BM) by amplifying the self-renewing, pluripotent HSC population from HPRT
   deficient donor (or engrafted) BM.
   The method described herein for highly efficient and overall non-toxic conditioning and single cycle in
   vivo chemoselection is generally applicable as a strategy to improve HSCT engraftment efficiency and
35 transplantation outcome, and to confer a selective advantage to genetically modified cells after ex vivo
   gene therapy. The in vivo chemoselection strategy exclusively employs 6TG, or other purine base
   analog, for both pre-conditioning and single cycle chemoselection of HPRT-deficient donor HSC, and is
   capable of achieving highly efficient engraftment and long-term reconstitution, with replacement of >95%
   of the recipient BM. This strategy is applicable for improving the engraftment of large numbers of ex vivo
40 manipulated HSC to broaden the application of gene therapy in general.
                                                          4

   Definitions
   All scientific and technical terms used in this application have meanings commonly used in the art
   unless otherwise specified. As used in this application, the following words or phrases have the
   meanings specified.
 5 As used herein, "radiation-free hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation" means that the recipient
   is not subjected to myeloablative conditioning via radiation. Instead, conditioning is achieved through
   administration of 6TG, typically administered during the 48 hours prior to (and including the day of)
   engraftment with donor HSCs.
   As used herein, "HPRT-deficient" includes both cells that are naturally HPRT-deficient, and those
10 rendered HPRT-deficient through genetic modification.
   As used herein, "donor HSCs" or "donor cells" refers to the cells to be engrafted, regardless of whether
   the HSCs are derived from the recipient of the transplant or another subject. Thus, cells harvested from
   a subject can be modified and engrafted back into the same subject, becoming "donor cells". These
   may be referred to herein as "donor cells", "engrafted cells" or "transplanted cells".
15 As used herein, "a" or "an" means at least one, unless clearly indicated otherwise.
   Combined Conditioninq and Chemoselection For Hematopoietic Transplantation
   The invention provides a method of radiation-free hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation.
   Typically, the method comprises administering to a mammalian subject one or two doses of 2 to 10
   mg/kg body weight of a purine base analog as a pre-conditioning step. The method further comprises
20 engrafting into the subject hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT)-deficient donor
   HSCs within 48 to 72 hours of the pre-conditioning step; and administering to the subject about 1 to 5
   mg/kg of the purine base analog every two to four days for two to eight weeks following the engrafting
   step.
   The method is performed in the absence of pre-conditioning via radiation. The subject is therefore not
25 treated with myeloablative radiation in preparation for transplantation, and thus the subject is free of
   myeloablative radiation-induced toxicity. The method is contemplated for use with a variety of subjects,
   including subjects who have never received radiation treatment of any kind, subjects who have never
   received myeloablative radiation treatment, and subjects who have received myeloablative treatment in
   the past, but not within a time frame and/or at a dose that would be pre-conditioning for the method
30 described herein. For example, the subject typically would not have received myeloablative radiation
   within 2 weeks, or even within 8 weeks, of the combined conditioning and chemoselection method
   described herein.
   Representative examples of the purine base analog include: 6-thioguanine (6TG), 6-mercaptopurine (6
   MP), and azathiopurine (AZA). In one embodiment, the purine base analog is 6TG. In some
35 embodiments, the total 6TG dosage administered to the subject does not exceed 105 mg; typically, the
   total 6TG dosage administered to the subject does not exceed 75 mg. In one embodiment, the
   administering of purine base analog is performed every 3 days and for not more than four weeks
   following the engrafting step.
                                                          5

   Where an alternative to 6TG is used as the purine base analog, known online (e.g., rxlist.com) and other
   resources are available to guide the skilled clinician in identifying a suitable dose for use in the method
   of the invention. For example, the usual oral dose for 6TG single-agent chemotherapy in pediatric
   patients and adults is 2 mg/kg of body weight per day; if no treatment response is observed after 4
 5 weeks, the dose can be increased to 3 mg/kg. As much as 35 mg/kg has been given in a single oral
   dose with reversible myelosuppression observed.
   For acute lymphatic leukemia, the usual initial dosage for pediatric patients and adults is 2.5 mg/kg 6
   MP of body weight per day (100 to 200 mg in the average adult and 50 mg in an average 5-year-old
   child). Pediatric patients with acute leukemia have tolerated this dose without difficulty in most cases; it
10 may be continued daily for several weeks or more in some patients. If, after 4 weeks at this dosage,
   there is no clinical improvement and no definite evidence of leukocyte or platelet depression, the dosage
   may be increased up to 5 mg/kg daily. A dosage of 2.5 mg/kg/day may result in a rapid fall in leukocyte
   count within 1 to 2 weeks in some adults with acute lymphatic leukemia and high total leukocyte counts.
   Once a complete hematologic remission is obtained, maintenance therapy is considered essential.
15 Maintenance doses will vary from patient to patient. The usual daily maintenance dose of 6-MP is 1.5 to
   2.5 mg/kg/day as a single dose.
   Dosage for 6-TG and 6-MP is somewhat comparable, while dosage for AZA is more difficult to compare,
   because it needs first to be bioactivated to 6-MP, and it is usually not used for treating leukemia. For
   patients receiving solid organ transplantation, the dose of AZA required to prevent rejection and
20 minimize toxicity will vary with individual patients, necessitating careful management. The initial dose is
   usually 3 to 5 mg/kg daily, beginning at the time of transplant. AZA is usually given as a single daily
   dose on the day of, and in a minority of cases 1 to 3 days before, transplantation. Dose reduction to
   maintenance levels of 1 to 3 mg/kg daily is usually possible. The dose of AZA should not be increased to
   toxic levels because of threatened rejection.
25 The HPRT-deficient donor HSCs can be naturally HPRT-deficient, or rendered HPRT-deficient through
   genetic modification. In this context, "donor HSCs" refers to the cells to be engrafted, regardless of
   whether the HSCs are derived from the recipient of the transplant or another subject. The transplanted
   HSCs can be autologous, syngeneic, or allogeneic.
   The genetic modification can be achieved using any of a variety of means known to those skilled in the
30 art. Examples of suitable means of genetic modification include, but are not limited to, introduction of
   sequences encoding zinc finger nucleases (ZFNs), transcriptional activator-like effector nucleases
   (TALENs), small fragment homologous recombination (SFHR) template strands, inhibitory RNAs
   (siRNAs) or microRNAs (miRNAs), antisense RNAs, trans-splicing RNAs, ribozymes, intracellular
   antibodies, or dominant-negative or competitive inhibitor proteins. The modification can be employed
35 directly with the donor HSCs or with progenitors. These technologies can be used for genetic
   modification of a variety of cell types, including but not limited to hematopoietic progenitor cells or
   hematopoietic stem cells directly, as well as other types of adult or embryonic stem cells or induced
   pluripotent stem cells that can be differentiated or trans-differentiated into hematopoietic progenitor or
   hematopoietic stem cells.
                                                          6

   In some embodiments, the HPRT-deficient HSCs to be transplanted have been genetically modified to
   suit a particular therapeutic objective. For example, the donor HSCs can be modified to correct a
   hereditary genetic defect, to alter drug sensitivity of normal bone marrow to cytotoxic drugs, to confer
   resistance to infectious microorganisms that affect lymphohematopoietic cells, to replace or re-set the
 5 endogenous immune system, or to combat lymphohematopoietic malignancies through replacement of
   endogenous bone marrow and induction of a graft-vs.-leukemia/lymphoma effect .
   More specifically, hereditary genetic defects can include, but are not limited to, disorders of
   hematopoiesis including hemoglobinopathies such as sickle cell anemia, thalassemia, hereditary
   spherocytosis, G6PD deficiency, etc., disorders of immunologic or antimicrobial function such as severe
10 combined immunodeficiency (SCID), chronic granulomatous disease (CGD), disorders of
   thrombopoiesis leading to coagulation defects such as Wiscott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS), as well as
   other genetic structural or metabolic disorders which can be ameliorated by genetic engineering of
   hematopoietic cells that travel to sites of tissue damage, such as various forms of epidermolysis bullosa
   (EB), and mucopolysaccharidosis.
15 Diseases in which modification of the drug sensitivity of bone marrow to chemotoxic drugs would be
   advantageous include, but are not limited to, malignant diseases that are treated by chemotherapy
   agents whose maximum tolerated dosage is limited by myelotoxicity. These include lung cancer,
   colorectal cancer, breast cancer, prostate cancer, pancreatic cancer, gastric cancer, liver cancer, head
   and neck cancer, renal cell carcinoma, bladder cancer, cervical cancer, ovarian cancer, skin cancer,
20 sarcomas, and glioma.
   Diseases in which bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is used to replace or reset
   the endogenous immune system include, but are not limited to, inflammatory bowel disease,
   scleroderma, and lupus erythematosis.
   Diseases in which conferring resistance to infectious microorganisms would be advantageous include,
25 but are not limited to, HIV infection and AIDS, HTLV infection, and parvovirus B19 infection.
   Malignant or pre-malignant diseases of lymphohematopoiesis that are treated by bone marrow or
   hematopoietic stem cell transplantation include, but are not limited to, acute myelogenous leukemia,
   acute lymphocytic leukemia, lymphoma, and myelodysplastic syndromes.
   Another example of the therapeutic application of this technology would be to improve the outcome of
30 bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation after acquired injury to endogenous
   lymphohematopoiesis caused by radiation injury, and chemotoxins.
   A non-therapeutic but commercially useful application of this technology would be its use to generate
   humanized animal models, in which their endogenous lymphohematopoiesis is almost entirely replaced
   by cells from a human donor. Once generated, such animals could be used, for example, to test the
35 myelotoxicity of new drugs being considered for application to human disease. This is advantageous
   because the sensitivity of hematopoiesis to various drugs can be different depending on the species of
   animal, therefore it is most desirable to test such drugs in a humanized animal model.
   Typically, the subject is a mammal. The mammalian subject can be murine, canine, feline, bovine,
   equine, ovine, primate or human. In one embodiment, the subject is human.
                                                           7

   Administration and Dosaqe
   The compositions are administered in any suitable manner, often with pharmaceutically acceptable
   carriers. Suitable methods of administering treatment in the context of the present invention to a subject
   are available, and, although more than one route can be used to administer a particular composition, a
 5 particular route can often provide a more immediate and more effective reaction than another route.
   The dose administered to a patient, in the context of the present invention, should be sufficient to effect
   a beneficial therapeutic response in the patient over time, or to inhibit disease progression. Thus, the
   composition is administered to a subject in an amount sufficient to elicit an effective response and/or to
   alleviate, reduce, cure or at least partially arrest symptoms and/or complications from the disease. An
10 amount adequate to accomplish this is defined as a "therapeutically effective dose."
   Routes and frequency of administration of the therapeutic compositions disclosed herein, as well as
   dosage, will vary from individual to individual as well as with the selected drug, and may be readily
   established using standard techniques. In general, the pharmaceutical compositions may be
   administered, by injection (e.g., intracutaneous, intratumoral, intramuscular, intravenous or
15 subcutaneous), intranasally (e.g., by aspiration) or orally. Alternate protocols may be appropriate for
   individual patients.
   As is understood by those skilled in the art, doses can be converted from mg/kg body weight to mg/body
   surface area, the latter being suitable for use with larger mammalian subjects, including humans.
   Calculators for allometric scaling are known in the art and readily obtained online. Generally, allometric
20 scaling uses an exponent of 0.75-0.80. For more information, see West & Brown, J Exp Bio 208, 1575
    1592, 2005. In addition, the United States Food and Drug Administration publishes "Guidance for
    Industry: Estimating the Maximum Safe Starting Dose in Initial Clinical Trials for Therapeutics in Adult
   Healthy Volunteers," which is available from: Office of Training and Communications Division of Drug
    Information, HFD-240 Center for Drug Evaluation and Research Food and Drug Administration 5600
25 Fishers Lane Rockville, MD 20857.
   For example, 5 mg/kg 6TG corresponds to a dose of 15.08 mg/m2 for a 20 g mouse. This equals 0.4
   mg/kg for a 65 kg human. Absorption after oral 6TG administration is estimated to be 30%, therefore this
   i.p. dose in mice corresponds to an absorbed dose after oral administration of about 1.3 mg/kg in
   humans. The conventional oral dose for 6TG single-agent chemotherapy in pediatric patients and adults
30 is 2 mg/kg of body weight per day; if no treatment response is observed after 4 weeks, the dose can be
   increased to 3 mg/kg.
   The method of the invention provides the unexpected advantage of avoiding toxicity subsequent to
   either excessive irradiation of the subject or excessive 6TG dosage. Surprisingly, effective conditioning
   and reconstitution of bone marrow can be achieved using less than 105 mg total 6TG dosage over the
35 course of treatment, and over a time course of two to eight weeks. Effective engraftment has been
   observed with total 6TG dosages of less than 65 mg and in as few as two weeks. In addition, the
   claimed method allows for the option of monitoring toxicity in an individual subject and adjusting the
   dosing to optimize effective engraftment with minimal toxicity for each subject. In some embodiments,
   the subject is administered 1 or 2.5 mg/kg body weight 6TG during the post-engraftment treatments.
                                                           8

     Subjects treated in accordance with the method will exhibit over 75% genetically modified
   hematopoietic cells. In some embodiments, the subject exhibits over 95% genetically modified
   hematopoietic cells. Successful engraftment can be confirmed in a subject by sampling of the peripheral
   blood or bone marrow at various intervals after transplantation and chemoselection. The peripheral
 5 blood mononuclear cells can be examined by monitoring the levels of HPRT gene disruption,
   knockdown, or reduction in functional activity, using various standard techniques that are generally
   familiar to one of ordinary skill in the art, including but not limited to polymerase chain reaction (PCR),
   quantitative real-time PCR (Q-PCR), surveyor nuclease assay (also referred to as 'Cel-I assay'),
   Southern blot analysis, Western blot / immunoblot analysis, immunohistochemistry or
10 immunocytochemistry, flow cytometric analysis with intracellular staining, HPRT enzymatic activity
   analysis, HPLC, mass spectrometry, and the like.
                                                        EXAMPLE
   The following example is presented to illustrate the present invention and to assist one of ordinary skill in
   making and using the same. The examples are not intended in any way to otherwise limit the scope of
15 the invention.
   Example 1: Combined preconditioninq and in vivo chemoselection with 6-thioquanine alone achieves
   highly efficient reconstitution of normal hematopoiesis with HPRT-deficient bone marrow
   Purine analogs such as 6-thioguanine (6TG) cause myelotoxicity upon conversion into nucleotides by
   hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT). This example shows the development of a
20 novel and highly efficient strategy employing 6TG as a single agent for both conditioning and in vivo
   chemoselection of HPRT-deficient HSC. The dose-response and time course of 6TG myelotoxicity were
   first compared in HPRT-wild type mice and HPRT-deficient transgenic mice. Dosage and schedule
   parameters were optimized to employ 6TG for myelo-suppressive conditioning, immediately followed by
   in vivo chemoselection of HPRT-deficient transgenic donor bone marrow (BM) transplanted into
25 syngeneic HPRT-wild type recipients.
   At appropriate doses, 6TG induced selective myelotoxicity without any adverse effects on extra
   hematopoietic tissues in HPRT-wild type mice, while HSC deficient in HPRT activity were highly
   resistant to its cytotoxic effects. Combined 6TG conditioning and post transplant chemoselection
   consistently achieved -95% engraftment of HPRT-deficient donor BM, with low overall toxicity. Long
30 term reconstitution of immunophenotypically normal BM was achieved in both primary and secondary
   recipients. These results provide proof-of-concept that single-agent 6TG can be used both for myelo
   suppressive conditioning without requiring irradiation, and for in vivo chemoselection of HPRT-deficient
   donor cells. The results show that by applying the myelosuppressive effects of 6TG both before (as
   conditioning) and after transplantation (as chemoselection), highly efficient engraftment of HPRT
35 deficient hematopoietic stem cells can be achieved.
   Clinical efficacy of ex vivo gene therapy using hematopoietic stem cells remains dependent on imparting
   a selective advantage to the transplanted cells [1, 2]. In order to enhance engraftment and decrease the
   time needed for lymphohematopoietic reconstitution, in vivo selection strategies employing drug
   resistance genes such as dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) [3] or multiple drug-resistance gene 1 (MDRI)
                                                            9

   [4, 5] have been tested, but have generally failed due to unacceptable toxicity [6] or insufficient selection
   efficiency [7]. Currently, mutant forms of 0 6 -methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) are being
   tested for their ability to confer chemoprotection against BCNU or temozolomide in combination with O6
   benzylguanine [8, 9], but these agents also pose a considerable risk of toxicity, and recent observations
 5 suggest that mutant MGMT may confer a selective disadvantage when expressed at high levels [10].
   Notably, these approaches have generally relied upon transplantation of hematopoietic progenitors over
   expressing an exogenous drug resistance gene into recipients preconditioned with myeloablative
   irradiation; however, chemo-resistance may also be conferred by reduced levels of endogenous
   enzymes that are normally essential for activation of cytotoxic drugs. In this context, we have previously
10 observed that high levels of the purine nucleotide salvage pathway enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine
   phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT) cause increased sensitivity to the purine analog 6-thioguanine (6TG)
   [11]. The first step of the metabolic conversion of 6TG is catalyzed by HPRT [12], which mediates the
   addition of ribose 5-phosphate to generate thioguanosine monophosphate (TGMP). Thus, 6TG
   cytotoxicity is essentially predicated on its HPRT-mediated conversion to thio-dGTPs, which are then
15 incorporated into DNA, inducing futile mismatch repair and subsequent apoptosis.
   To confer myeloprotection through reduced activity, the endogenous drug-activating enzyme should
   normally be highly expressed in hematopoietic progenitors, yet non-essential for normal hematopoiesis.
   In fact, hematopoietic progenitors normally express high levels of HPRT [13-16], which makes them
   extremely sensitive to 6TG. Indeed, purine analogs such as 6-mercaptopurine (6MP), azathiopurine
20 (Aza), and 6TG have been used clinically for the treatment of leukemia, particularly in pediatric patients,
   for half a century [17], as well as for immunosuppression in organ transplant patients, and more recently
   for autoimmune diseases. At higher doses, myelotoxicity is the most frequent and consistent adverse
   effect of 6TG when used clinically, and when administered at appropriate concentrations for short
   periods of time, 6TG is strongly myelosuppressive with little toxicity to other tissues in normal HPRT-wild
25 type animals [11].
   In contrast, bone marrow (BM) from HPRT-deficient animals is highly resistant to 6TG [11]. Notably,
   however, we [11] and others [18] have found that hematopoiesis is phenotypically and functionally
   normal in Hprt-knockout animals, and although cases of megaloblastic anemia have been associated
   with hereditary HPRT deficiency (Lesch-Nyhan syndrome) in humans [19], this has been reported to
30 respond well to oral administration of adenine [20]. Furthermore, HPRT deficiency does not appear to
   be associated with any gross impairment of the immune system in humans or in animals [21].
   These observations suggest that HPRT-deficient hematopoietic progenitor cells, which are 6TG
   resistant but otherwise normal, should have a selective advantage when transplanted into HPRT-wild
   type recipients undergoing 6TG treatment, and that this strategy can be used to improve the outcome of
35 ex vivo gene therapy. In fact, Porter and DeGregori [22] previously demonstrated the feasibility of
   transducing HSC with a lentiviral vector expressing Hprt-targeted shRNA and enriching these
   engineered hematopoietic cells in vivo by 6TG chemoselection in mice. However, in this previous
   report, 6TG was employed either at dosages chosen to be only moderately myelosuppressive or only
   over short periods of selection that were initiated 4 weeks or more following transplantation, and despite
                                                         10

   preconditioning by total body irradiation, engraftment results were relatively modest and highly variable,
   ranging from 5 - 50% [22].
   We have now systematically examined the effects of modifying the dose, timing, and duration of 6TG
   administration on engraftment and hematopoietic reconstitution after transplantation of HPRT-deficient
 5 bone marrow. In order to exclude vector transduction efficiency as a variable, we employed BM from
   Hprt-knockout animals as 'ideal' donor cells, thereby enabling us to focus on the effects of modifying
   6TG dosage and scheduling parameters both (i) pre- transplantation for myelosuppressive conditioning
   of HPRT-wild type recipients, and (ii) post-transplantation for chemoselective amplification of HPRT
   deficient donor cell populations. Consequently, here we describe the development of a novel regimen
10 that sequentially employs 6TG as a single agent for both preconditioning and in vivo chemoselection,
   and show that this combination regimen rapidly and consistently achieves highly efficient engraftment
   and long-term reconstitution.
   Materials and methods
   Mice
15 Hprt-deficient B6.129P2-Hprt1 I-m/J (CD45.2) mice, Hprt-wild type (wt) C57BL/6J, and B6.SJL
   Ptprc"Pepcb/BoyJ (CD45.1) mice were originally obtained from the Jackson Laboratory (Bar Harbor,
   ME). B6.129P2-Hprt1 -mJ  I    mice carry a 55 kb deletion spanning the promoter and the first 2 exons of
   the Hprt-gene [23]. Mice were bred and maintained in the institutional specific-pathogen-free animal
   facility under standard conditions according to institutional guidelines.
20 6TG treatment
   C57BL/6J and B6.129P2-Hprt1b-m3 /J mice were injected intraperitoneally (i.p.) with 200 pl of varying
   doses of 6TG (Sigma-Aldrich, Saint Louis, MO) at different time points as described in the figure
   legends. Control animals were i.p. injected with 200 pl of sterile H20.
   Bone marrow transplantation and 6TG in vivo chemoselection
25 Female recipient C57BL/6J (HPRT-wt) or B6.SJL-Ptprc"Pepcb/BoyJ (HPRT-wt, CD45.1) mice were
   treated with 10 mg/kg 6TG by i.p. injection 48 hrs before HSCT. For HSCT, 0.8-1 x 107 nucleated BM
   cells isolated from B6.129P2-Hprtl   -ms/J male mice (CD45.2) were intravenously injected into HPRT-wt
   recipients. 6TG (10 mg/kg) was again administered by i.p. injection 2 hrs later, and every 3 days
   thereafter, at 5 mg/kg for 4 weeks. Serial transplantation into secondary recipient mice was performed
30 using the same cell dose and 6TG preconditioning / chemoselection regimen as above, but using BM
   from primary recipient mice that had undergone transplantation with 6TG in vivo chemoselection 6
   months previously.
   Mouse chromosome X- and Y-specific fluorescence in situ hybridization
   FISH was performed on BM and PBL cells using the mouse-specific Whole Chromosome-Y paint probe/
35 RAB9 (XqF1) DNA probes mix (Kreatech, Amsterdam, Netherlands) according to the manufacturer's
   protocol. To determine the percentage of male donor HPRT-wt cells in the female recipient C57BL/6J
   mice, 200 nuclei per slide were counted using a fluorescence microscope (Zeiss) equipped with
                                                         11

   appropriate dual and triple-colour filters. The following criteria were applied for analyzing FISH: (1)
   quality of the nuclei was evaluated via DAPI staining, (2) green fluorescent signal for the Y-chromosome
   was scored, (3) red fluorescent signal for X-chromosome was scored, (4) absence of the green
   fluorescent signal for the Y-chromosome nucleus was recorded as female, even when only one X
 5 chromosome was detectable (Supplementary Figure S1; see Experimental Hematology 2012, 40:3-13
   for supplementary figures).
   Immunophenotypic analysis of hematopoietic tissues
   After blocking with Mouse BD Fc Block (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA), BM, PBL, thymus, or spleen
   cells were stained with FITC-, PE-, PerCP- or APC-conjugated rat anti-mouse antibodies against CD45,
10 CD45.2, CD4, CD8, Mac1/Gr1, B220, Sca-1, c-kit, and lineage antibody cocktail. Antibodies were
   received from Biolegend (San Diego, CA) or BD Biosciences. Flow cytometric data were acquired on a
   BD LSRII running BD FACSDiva (BD Biosciences) and analyzed using FlowJo software (TreeStar,
   Ashland, OR) (Supplementary Figure S2).
   Histopatholo-gical analysis
15 Necropsy of all mice used in this study and histological examination of all thoracic and abdominal organs
   and bone marrow was performed by the UCLA Division of Laboratory Animal Medicine Diagnostic
   Service Laboratory. Tissues were routinely processed or decalcified if necessary, and paraffin sections
   were cut and stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E).
   Statistical analysis
20 Data were analyzed using the QuickCalcs statistical software program (Graphpad Software Inc.).
   Unpaired t-tests were used to calculate p values, and p<0.05 was considered statistically significant.
   Results
   Acute myelotoxicity of 6TG in HPRT-wt mice
   The high levels of HPRT expression in hematopoietic progenitors are predicted to mediate a selective
25 myelotoxic effect of 6TG and enable its use as a conditioning regimen. Accordingly, we examined the
   short-term effects on BM after bolus injections of 6TG at various dosages in HPRT-wt mice.
    Intraperitoneal injection of a single dose of 2.5 mg/kg, 5.0 mg/kg, or 10 mg/kg 6TG was performed on
   Day 1, or injection of two doses at 10 mg/kg on Days 1 and 3, and BM histology was examined on Day
   4. Increasing myelotoxicity was observed as the total 6TG dosage was increased (Fig. 1A). Vascular
30 structures became progressively prominent and cells of both erythroid and myeloid lineages were
   depleted. Only vascular endothelium, mesenchymal cells, some mature granulocytes and
   macrophages, and occasional hematopoietic progenitor cells remained at the highest 6TG dose tested
   (Fig. 1B).
   No readily apparent clinical signs were observed on Day 4 with any of the above regimens, but when the
35 observation period was extended, weight loss and pallor of the extremities was seen by Day 7.
   Histological examination of BM showed severity increasing between Day 4 and Day 7 even without
   administration of additional doses of 6TG (Fig. 1A, 2A). In concordance with the clinical and histological
                                                          12

   findings, BM of HPRT-wt mice treated with two doses of 10 mg/kg 6TG and analyzed on Day 7 showed
   a significant quantitative decrease in the BM nucleated cell count recovered from one femur and tibia
   (4.7x10 6 ±1.0x10 6, n=3) compared to that of vehicle control-treated HPRT-wt mice (1.1x10     7
                                                                                                    + 0.2x10 7,
   n=3) (p<0.01).
 5 Immunophenotypic analysis of the remaining BM hematopoietic cells by flow cytometry (Table 1)
   revealed that the relative proportion of KLS (lin /c-kit*/sca-1*) progenitors, which includes HSC with long
   term multilineage reconstitution activity [24], significantly decreased 3-fold by Day 4 (p<0.01), and 10
   fold by Day 7 (p<0.001) (Table 1-iii, -iv). The relative percentage of mature CD8+ and CD4+ T cells
   progressively increased over time after 6TG administration, reaching up to 7-fold compared to the
10 controls by Day 7 (p<0.001), likely due to the massively dilated blood vessels and influx of peripheral
   blood/hemorrhage, as can be also seen in the BM histology. The relative percentage of B220+ cells
   showed no significant change by Day 4, but had doubled compared to controls by Day 7 after 6TG
   administration.
   Table 1. Immunophenotypic analysis of BM hematopoietic cells after 6TG conditioning regimen.
15 BM cells were stained with the following rat anti-mouse antibodies: CD45-FITC, CD4-PE, CD8-APC,
   B220-PerCP, Macl/Gr1-PE, Sca-1-PE, and c-kit-FITC, and examined by flow cytometry. Treatment and
   analysis schedules are indicated by small roman numerals, and are the same as in Figure 1. (i):
   Vehicle control on Day 1, analysis on Day 4. (ii) Single dose of 10 mg/kg 6TG on Day 1, analysis on
   Day 4. (iii): Two doses of 10 mg/kg 6TG on Days 1 and 3, analysis on Day 4. (iv) & (v): Two doses of
20 6TG 10 mg/kg on Days 1 and 3, analysis on Day 7. The last two columns show the results of the
   same 6TG dosage and schedule (10 mg/kg 6TG x 2 doses) in HPRT-wt (iv) and HPRT-deficient (v)
   mice, respectively. Percentages of the indicated hematopoietic cell subpopulations are expressed as
   mean % ± SD of total CD45+ cells (n=3 per group).
                                                                                               HPRT
                 Cell                                    HPRT-wild type                      deficient
             population                                            iii          iv                v
               CD45*             91.5±2.4       95.7±0.8        95.7±0.1      82.8±5.1       90.0±2.0
                CD4*               3.5±0.4      11.9±2.5          9.6±0.6     20.5±3.1        2.9±1.7
                CD8*               3.6±0.1        5.3±1.7         5.2±0.4     25.0±2.7        2.7±0.4
                B220*            28.4±3.3       23.1±2.2        26.2±1.8      56.3±1.5        10.7±3.5
             Macl/Grl            75.8±1.1       85.4±1.8        81.0±1.3      61.8±3.0       79.3±2.9
             KLS (HSC)             4.2±0.6        1.3±0.2         1.4±0.5      0.4±0.2        2.0±0.6
                                                           13

   Notably, liver enzymes were not elevated following this conditioning regimen in HPRT-wt mice,
   indicating the selectivity of 6TG cytotoxicity for hematopoietic progenitors at this dosage, and suggesting
   its potential for use as a myelosuppressive conditioning regimen.
   Lack of myelotoxicity at 6TG conditioning dosage in HPRT-deficient mice
 5  In contrast to the above findings, when HPRT-deficient mice were treated with the maximum dosing (two
   doses of 10 mg/kg 6TG on Days 1 and 3), bone marrow histology remained completely unaffected at
   day 7 (Fig. 2A), and was comparable to that of the vehicle control group (Fig. 1A). Importantly, the
   overall count of nucleated BM cells obtained from one femur and tibia of 6TG-treated HPRT-deficient
   mice (1.5x10 7 ±0.3x10 7, n=3) was also comparable to that of vehicle control-treated HPRT-wt mice
10 (1.1x10 7 +  0.2x10 7 , n=3), and was significantly higher than in HPRT-wt mice treated with the same 6TG
   regimen (4.7x10 6 ±1.0x10 6, n=3) (p<0.005).
   Furthermore, the ratios of hematopoietic cell subpopulations in the BM of the 6TG-treated HPRT
   deficient mice (Table 1-v) were comparable to those of vehicle control-treated HPRT-wt mice (Table 1-i)
   and untreated HPRT-wt mice (Table 2, BM% column), as well as untreated HPRT-deficient mice (Table
15 3, BM% column).
   Table 2. Immunophenotypic analysis of hematopoietic cells in treatment-naive HPRT-wt mice.
   BM, PBL, spleen (S) and thymus (T) were stained with the following rat anti-mouse antibodies: CD45
   FITC (BM, PBL, T, S), CD4-PE (BM, PBL, T, S), CD8-APC (BM, PBL, T, S), Macl/Gr1-PE (BM, PBL,
   S), B220-PerCP (BM, PBL, S), Sca-1-PE (BM), and c-kit-FITC (BM), and examined by flow cytometry.
20 Percentages of the indicated hematopoietic cell subpopulations are expressed as mean % ± SD of total
   CD45+ cells (n=3 per group).
   Cell
                         BM (%)                   PBL (%)           Thymus (%)         Spleen (%)
   population
   CD45*                 92.6±3.2              98.6±0.5            98.7±0.6           97.1±1.0
   CD4*                  3.9±1.6               12.2±2.6              6.5±2.1          19.7±1.7
   CD8*                  1.6±0.8               11.4±1.7              3.6±1.2          16.5±0.3
   CD4*/CD8*                                                       85.6±4.3
   B220*                20.4±8.2               47.8±13.2                              54.4±4.9
   Mac1*/Gr1*            87.3±8.1              36.1±5.0                               18.7±3.9
   KLS (HSC)             3.6±2.4
   Table 3. Immunophenotypic analysis of hematopoietic cells in treatment-naive HPRT-deficient
   mice. BM, PBL, spleen (S) and thymus (T) were stained with the following rat anti-mouse antibodies:
   CD45-FITC (BM, PBL, T, S), CD4-PE (BM, PBL, T, S), CD8-APC (BM, PBL, T, S), Macl/Grl-PE (BM,
25 PBL, S), B220-PerCP (BM, PBL, S), Sca-1-PE (BM), and c-kit-FITC (BM), and examined by flow
                                                           14

   cytometry. Percentages of the indicated hematopoietic cell subpopulations are expressed as mean %
   SD of total CD45+ cells (n=3 per group).
           population             BM (%)             PBL (%)          Thymus (%)           Spleen (%)
              CD45*             92.3±1.3            96.1±2.7          98.7±0.4            94.9±1.8
              CD4*               4.9±1.4            15.9±0.8            6.5±1.0            18.4±2.7
              CD8*               2.4±0.2            11.7±0.7           2.9±0.1             11.8±1.9
           CD4*/CD8*                                                  86.9±0.9
              B220*             28.2±2.7            55.7±2.9                              51.3±5.5
           Mac1*/Gr1*           79.7±2.2            30.1±4.0                                9.9±1.8
            KLS (HSC)            3.3±0.5
   Taken together, these results suggested that up to two doses of 10 mg/kg 6TG could be employed as an
 5 effective conditioning regimen that would be well tolerated for up to 3 days prior to HSCT, with
   progressively increasing myelotoxicity occurring over a period of 7 days.
   Transplantation of HPRT-deficient BM after 6TG conditioning in HPRT-wt recipients
   Based on the schedule established above, we employed 6TG (10 mg/kg i.p.) as a conditioning regimen
   in HPRT-wt recipients (CD45.1), with one dose administered 48 hours prior (now designated Day -2,
10 rather than Day 1) and one dose administered on the day of transplantation (designated Day 0, rather
   than Day 3) per the schedule established above. After conditioning, HPRT-wt recipients were then
   transplanted with BM from HPRT-deficient congenic donors (CD45.2),
   At day 4, the marrow showed reduced cellularity with fewer early progenitor cells and increased
   vascularity (Fig. 2B), and the overall count of nucleated BM cells recovered from these 6TG-conditioned
15 HPRT-wt mice transplanted with HPRT-deficient BM (3.8x10 6        0.5x10 6, n=4) was still significantly
   reduced (p<0.001) compared to that of the vehicle control-treated HPRT-wt group (1.1x10 7       +  0.2x10 7 ,
   n=3). Flow cytometric analyses of BM showed that at day 4 only 17.8% ± 4.4% of the total cell
   population was derived from donor HPRT-deficient CD45.2+ hematopoietic cells.
   Threshold for myelotoxicity after chronic low-dose 6TG treatment
20 As our results above indicated that 6TG preconditioning alone may not be sufficient to achieve high
   levels of engraftment, we next performed a dose-finding study in non-transplanted mice given chronic
   treatment with lower doses of 6TG. HPRT-wt and HPRT-deficient mice (n=3 per group) were injected i.p.
   with vehicle alone, 0.25 mg/kg, 0.5 mg/kg, 1.0 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, or 5.0 mg/kg 6TG every 3 days for up
   to 60 days. In HPRT-wt mice, the vehicle control group as well as the 0.25 mg/kg and 0.5 mg/kg 6TG
                                                        15

    groups showed 100% survival over a period of 60 days, and histological examination of BM in the 0.25
    mg/kg and 0.5 mg/kg 6TG groups showed normal cellularity on Day 60 (Fig. 3).
    In contrast, in the HPRT-wt 1.0 mg/kg 6TG group, deaths occurred on Day 38 (13 mg/kg total dosage),
    Day 42 (14 mg/kg total dosage), and Day 51 (17 mg/kg total dosage) (Table Si). At higher dosages,
  5 HPRT-wt mice receiving repeated injections of 2.5 mg/kg or 5 mg/kg 6TG consistently showed
    progressive clinical signs of distress (inactivity, hunched posture, lack of grooming, anorexia), anemia
    (pallor of extremities) and >10% weight loss, necessitating sacrifice per institutional guidelines on Day
    28 (2.5 mg/kg 6TG group; 22.5 mg/kg total dosage) and Day 22 (5.0 mg/kg 6TG group; 35 mg/kg total
    dosage), respectively. Histological examination of BM from the 1.0 mg/kg 6TG group showed several
 10 apoptotic figures and more blast cells than in the lower dosage groups were observed, likely reflecting
    an initial activation response to the injury (Fig. 3; Day 38). The higher dosage groups also showed
    significantly reduced cellularity and expansion of vascular structures, with the severity of lesions
    proportional to the cumulative dosage of 6TG in each group. Mice treated with repeated doses of 2.5
    mg/kg 6TG showed reduced cellularity and widespread apoptosis (Day 28). At the highest chronic
 15 dosage of 5 mg/kg, BM was markedly depleted, with most of the surviving cells being of myeloid lineage
    (Day 22).
    In contrast to the HPRT-wt mice, all HPRT-deficient mice survived for the duration of the experiment (60
    days), independent of the injected 6TG dosage (up to 105 mg/kg maximum total dose, administered
    according to the same dosing schedules as above) (Table S1). No significant BM pathology was
 20 observed in any HPRT-deficient mice, regardless of 6TG dosage, at the terminal time point of the
    experiment on Day 60 (Fig. 3). No significant treatment-related abnormalities were observed in any
    other tissues examined, including heart, lung, liver, pancreas, kidney, and spleen. Thus, HPRT-deficient
    mice showed no toxic effects of chronic 6TG treatment at the 1.0 mg/kg, 2.5 mg/kg, and 5.0 mg/kg
    doses that caused lethal myelotoxicity in HPRT-wt mice.
 25 Combined 6TG conditioning and in vivo chemoselection achieves consistent and highly efficient
    engraftment of HPRT-deficient BM
    Based on the above dose-finding study, we then asked whether 6TG preconditioning combined with
    continued administration of lower doses of 6TG, beginning immediately after transplantation of HPRT
    deficient BM in HPRT-wt recipients, could achieve further chemoselective amplification of engrafted
30  donor cells. Accordingly, female HPRT-wt mice were preconditioned with 6TG (10 mg/kg i.p.), with one
    dose administered 48 hours prior (Day -2) and one dose administered on the day of transplantation (Day
    0) per the conditioning schedule established previously. The HPRT-wt female recipients were then
    transplanted with HPRT-deficient male BM, and based on the chronic myelotoxicity results above, the
    recipients were further treated with repeated doses of 2.5 mg/kg 6TG every 3 days for 2 weeks (30
35  mg/kg total dosage) or 4 weeks (42.5 mg/kg), or repeated doses of 5.0 mg/kg 6TG every 3 days for 2
    weeks (40 mg/kg total dosage) or 4 weeks (65 mg/kg total dosage). Analysis was performed
    immediately after the in vivo chemoselection period at 2 weeks or 4 weeks, respectively (Fig. 4).
    As expected, the combined 6TG conditioning, HSCT, and 6TG in vivo chemoselection procedures were
    well-tolerated, and no signs of distress were observed. In all 6TG-treated groups, 100% of the
40  transplanted animals survived (2 week treatment: n=3 and 4 week treatment: n=8). Body weights
                                                           16

   decreased initially during the first week after transplantation in the 6TG-treated animals, but stabilized
   and all animals regained normal weight thereafter. Histopathological analysis showed that overall
   cellularity and hematopoiesis in the transplanted animals were indistinguishable from the untreated
   HPRT-wt control, regardless of 6TG chemoselection dosage or duration (Fig. 4).
 5 Chromosome XY-FISH [25, 26] showed that in the groups receiving 2 weeks of 6TG chemoselection,
   the BM at that time point was already highly reconstituted with donor-derived marrow at levels of
   89.3%±1.7 (2.5 mg/kg group) and 95.5%±1.2 (5 mg/kg group). The percentages of donor-derived
   peripheral blood leukocytes (PBL) at 2 weeks were 13.0%±4.6 (2.5 mg/kg group) and 12.7%±2.9 (5.0
   mg/kg group), respectively (Table 4). When in vivo chemoselection was continued for up to 4 weeks
10 after HSCT, the percentage of donor-derived BM cells was again found to be extremely high in both the
   2.5 mg/kg group (95.3%±0.9) and the 5.0 mg/kg group (96.7%±1.2). Notably, the percentage of donor
   derived PBL was significantly higher in the 5.0 mg/kg group (39.7%±3) in comparison to the 2.5 mg/kg
   group (29.9%±1.9) at 4 weeks (p<0.005), as well as significantly higher (p<0.000 2 ) than in the groups
   receiving 2 weeks of chemoselection at either dose (Table 4). Thus, preconditioning with 10 mg/kg 6TG
15 on Day -2 and Day 0, combined with on-going in vivo chemoselection with 5 mg/kg 6TG every 3 days for
   4 weeks, yielded maximal levels of BM engraftment by HPRT-deficient donor cells as well as the highest
   levels of donor-derived PBL; this regimen was employed in further studies.
   Table 4. Survival and engraftment after combined 6TG conditioning and in vivo chemoselection.
   Treatment schedules for in vivo chemoselection are as indicated: In vivo chemoselection with 2.5
20 mg/kg 6TG for 2 weeks, 5.0 mg/kg 6TG for 2 weeks, 2.5 mg/kg 6TG for 4 weeks or 5.0 mg/kg for 4
   weeks. All treatment groups showed 100% survival. Engraftment of HPRT-deficient male hematopoietic
   cells in HPRT-wt female recipient BM and PBL was determined by chromosome XY-FISH (mean%
   SD).
                                                                            Engraftment
                   Treatment              Survival (%)             BM (%)             PBL (%)
                6TG 2.5 mg/kg x               100                 89.3±1.7            13.0±4.6
                    2 weeks                  (n=3)
                6TG 5.0 mg/kg x               100                 95.5±1.2            12.7±2.9
                    2 weeks                  (n=3)
                6TG 2.5 mg/kg x               100                 95.3±0.9            29.9±1.9
                    4 weeks                  (n=3)
                6TG 5.0 mg/kg x               100                 96.7±1.2            39.7  3.0
                    4 weeks                  (n=8)
                                                          17

   Combined 6TG conditioning and in vivo chemoselection results in lonq-term reconstitution of HPRT
   deficient BM
   The durability of engraftment by HPRT-deficient donor BM using the combined 6TG conditioning and in
   vivo chemoselection regimen established above was examined 4 months, 7 months, or 12 months after
 5 transplantation (i.e., 3 months, 6 months, and 11 months after the end of the 4-week in vivo
   chemoselection period, respectively). All transplanted animals (4 months: n=8; 7 months: n=6; 12
   months: n=5) remained alive and well, showing no signs of any morbidity or discomfort, at all time points
   examined. Gross pathological and histological examination of these animals revealed no significant
   abnormalities.
10 Multi-lineage reconstitution of lymphohematopoiesis by donor-derived progenitor cells was evaluated 4
   months after HSCT with combined 6TG preconditioning and in vivo chemoselection, i.e., 3 months after
   the end of the 4-week chemoselection period. Immunophenotyping of BM, PBL, thymus, and spleen
   was performed in a congeneic CD45.1/CD45.2 transplant setting using HPRT-deficient CD45.2 mice as
   donors and HPRT-wt CD45.1 mice as recipients (n=5). All hematopoietic tissues showed high
15 engraftment of CD45.2+ donor cells at levels exceeding 75% of total bone marrow (Table 5).
   Immunophenotyping of the donor-derived CD45.2+ population showed that the relative percentages of T
   cells (CD4/CD8), B220+ cells, and macrophages/granulocytes (Mac-l/Gr1) were comparable to those of
   the treatment-naive controls (Tables 2 and 3).
   Table 5. Immunophenotypic analysis of hematopoietic tissues 4 months post-transplantation
20 using 6TG conditioning and in vivo chemoselection regimen in a congeneic CD45.1/CD45.2
   transplant model. 6TG conditioning and in vivo chemoselection was performed as described in text.
   Recipient BM and PBL were stained with the following rat anti-mouse antibodies: CD45.2-FITC (BM,
   PBL, T, S), CD4-PE (BM, PBL, T, S), CD8-APC (BM, PBL, T, S), Macl/Gr1-PE (BM, PBL), B220-PerCP
   (BM, PBL, S), and examined by flow cytometry. Percentages of the indicated hematopoietic cell
25 subpopulations are expressed as mean % ± SD of total CD45.2+ cells (n=5 per group).
            population            BM (%)            PBL (%)          Thymus (%)        Spleen (%)
             CD45.2*             76.1±9.3          73.8±5.2          89.7±8.3          65.9±5.2
              CD4*                3.2±1.3          17.0±3.0          10.4±2.8          22.6±3.6
              CD8*                3.0±1.3          12.7±0.9           4.3±0.8          14.9±2.1
            CD4*/CD8*                                                79.3±4.2
              B220*             29.3±6.3           45.4±3.8                            58.2±8.6
            Mac1*/Gr1*         80.68±6.1           28.2±3.3                            14.1±1.6
   Engraftment levels were also evaluated by chromosome XY-FISH at the post-transplant 4-month, 7
   month, and 12-month time points. Stable long-term reconstitution by donor-derived BM at high levels
                                                       18

   was observed at all time points, with engraftment levels of 97.7% ± 0.5% (4 months), 94.7% ± 1.9% (7
   months), and 93.0% ± 0.8% (12 months), respectively, after transplantation (Fig. 5). Furthermore, the
   percentage of donor-derived PBL was significantly increased (67.4% ± 10.6% at 4 months, p=0.01;
   73.3% ± 7.9% at 7 months, p<0.01; 73.0% ± 10.7% at 12 months, p<0.01) compared to that immediately
 5 following the 4-week 6TG selection period (39.7% ± 3.0%).
   The relative percentages of CD4+ and CD8+ cells, B220+ cells, and Mac-1 +/Gr1+ cells, as well as KLS
   (lin~/sca-1*/c-kit*) HSC, were determined in BM by immunophenotyping at 4 months, 7 months, and 12
   months (Table 6), and compared to treatment-naive female HPRT-wt (Table 2) and treatment-naive
   male HPRT-deficient (Table 3) control mice. At all three time points, the relative percentage of each cell
10 population was comparable to that in the controls, although KLS cells were elevated at 4 months and 7
   months, and within the normal range at 12 months after HSCT. Thus, HPRT-deficient donor-derived
   marrow was able to achieve long-term reconstitution of normal hematopoiesis for at least 12 months
   post-transplantation.
   Table 6. Immunophenotypic analysis of BM at 4 months, 7 months, and 12 months post
15 transplantation with HPRT-deficient BM using 6TG conditioning and in vivo chemoselection
   regimen.     At the indicated time points after HSCT with 6TG conditioning and in vivo chemoselection,
   recipient BM cells were stained with the following rat anti-mouse antibodies: CD45-FITC, CD4-PE,
   CD8-APC, Mac1/Gr1-PE, B220-PerCP, Sca-1-PE, and c-kit-FITC, and examined by flow cytometry.
   Percentages of the indicated hematopoietic cell subpopulations are expressed as mean % ± SD of total
20 CD45+ cells.
                      Cell                4 months              7 months               12 months
                 population                BM (%)                BM (%)                  BM (%)
                    CD45*                  91.6±1.9              94.3±2.1             82.5±4.9
                     CD4'                    2.5±0.6               3.8±0.2              2.8±2.7
                     CD8'                    1.9±0.1               2.2±0.4              1.8±0.6
                    B220*                  51.8±2.4              32.9±3.8             11.5±2.8
                 Mac1*/Gr1*               77.0±13.0              80.8±2.3             72.3±5.4
                 KLS (HSC)                   7.8±1.0               7.0±1.1              1.8±0.6
   Hematopoietic reconstitution of secondary recipients after serial transplantation of HPRT-deficient donor
   BM with combined 6TG conditioning and chemoselection
   To further evaluate whether the optimized regimen combining 6TG conditioning with chemoselection
25 selects for long-term repopulating HSCs, we next transplanted BM from primary recipients at 7 months
   post-transplantation into secondary recipients [27] using the same regimen. The secondary transplant
   recipients were then maintained for 3 months after the end of their 4-week course of 6TG in vivo
   chemoselection (Supplementary Figure S3). After 6TG conditioning and chemoselection, HPRT
                                                        19

   deficient male donor cells that had engrafted primary recipients were able to serially repopulate
   secondary female recipients at high levels, (95.5%     1.1%, as determined by XY-FISH).
   Immunophenotypic analysis revealed that the percentages of all cell populations examined in BM and
   PBL of secondary recipients (Table 7) were again comparable to those of treatment-naive controls
 5 (Tables 2 and 3).
   Table 7. Immunophenotypic analysis of hematopoietic cells in secondary recipients after serial
   transplantation of HPRT-deficient BM with 6TG conditioning and in vivo chemoselection. Serial
   transplantation with 6TG conditioning and in vivo chemoselection regimen was performed as described
   in Figure S3. Secondary recipient BM and PBL were stained with the following rat anti-mouse
10 antibodies: CD45-FITC (BM, PBL), CD4-PE (BM, PBL), CD8-APC (BM, PBL), Macl/Gr1-PE (BM, PBL),
   and B220-PerCP (BM, PBL), and examined by flow cytometry. Percentages of the indicated
   hematopoietic cell subpopulations are expressed as mean % ± SD of total CD45+ cells (n=6 per group).
                             Cell population             BM (%)                PBL (%)
                                  CD45*                  84.6±4.7              95.8±1.4
                                   CD4*                   4.1±1.0               7.0±3.3
                                   CD8*                   2.4±0.8               7.0±3.2
                                  B220*                  19.1±2.9             33.3±12.3
                               Mac1*/Gr1*                78.3±4.7             31.6±11.7
   We have developed an optimized regimen that employs 6TG as a single agent for pre-transplant
   conditioning as well as continued post transplant in vivo chemoselection of HPRT-deficient donor HSC.
15 This combined 6TG conditioning and chemoselection strategy achieved efficient HSC engraftment with
   low overall toxicity, through a progressive and simultaneous replacement process, in which recipient
   hosts showed little if any distress and 100% survival, while their BM was rapidly and almost completely
   replaced by HPRT-deficient donor cells, consistently achieving -95% engraftment by XY-FISH, and
   >75% by CD45.2 immunophenotyping. The percentage of donor-derived PBL increased significantly
20 over time (4 and 7 months post-transplantation) compared to that immediately following the 4-week 6TG
   selection period. Residual recipient cells in PBL likely reflect a lower turnover of non-dividing mature
   cells in PBL. Stable long-term reconstitution of the BM was achieved in both primary and secondary
   recipients. Immunophenotyping analysis of BM, PBL, spleen, and thymus showed that, after long-term
   reconstitution, hematopoietic differentiation was unaffected by 6TG in vivo chemoselection.
25 These results also confirm our previous observation that, at appropriate concentrations, 6TG appears to
   induce selective myelotoxicity without any adverse effects on extra-hematopoietic tissues. HPRT is
   expressed at low levels in all somatic cells [30], and inherited loss of HPRT gives rise to Lesch-Nyhan
   syndrome [31] which manifests as severe mental retardation and behavioral abnormalities, as higher
   levels of HPRT expression and activity have been found in the central nervous system, particularly
                                                         20

   during neural development [32]. However, since fully differentiated neurons do not undergo replication,
   these higher levels do not translate into higher 6TG neurotoxicity in mature adults.
   In previous work by Porter and DeGregori [22], total body irradiation of 4.5 Gy was used to achieve
   myeloablation, and 6TG was employed only for chemoselection at later time periods. In contrast, in our
 5 regimen, 6TG as a single agent fulfills the dual role of conditioning (cytoreduction of host BM) and
   chemoselective drug (amplification of donor BM). It is known that 6TG toxicity requires two rounds of
   DNA replication to result in apoptosis [33] and therefore shows a delayed effect. Our results also
   indicated a dose- and time-dependent myelotoxic effect of 6TG. Thus, conditioning with 10 mg/kg 6TG
   prior to transplantation may improve the outcome of 6TG in vivo chemoselection by compensating for
10 the delay in 6TG myelotoxicity and providing an adequate niche for HSC at the time of transplantation.
   In addition, Porter et al. employed 6TG at much lower doses ranging from 0.25 - 2 mg/kg over short
   periods of time, starting more than a month after transplantation, resulting in variable engraftment levels
   ranging from 5 - 50%. In our current study, we have confirmed that mice transplanted with Hprt-deficient
   BM can tolerate 6TG doses 5- to 40-fold higher, with administration of the chemoselective drug started
15 immediately post-transplant, and continued over considerably longer selection periods.
   In order to translate the use of the 6TG in vivo chemoselection strategy into a clinically feasible
   approach, it is necessary to develop methods to genetically engineer normal HSC to render them HPRT
   deficient and thus 6TG-resistant. Furthermore, it should be emphasized that our current study was
   limited to employing this strategy for bone marrow transplantation in syngeneic mice, which models the
20 situation in the autologous transplant setting. Whether this strategy will be equally useful in the
   allogeneic setting remains to be seen, as reduced-intensity conditioning regimens are being used
   routinely to circumvent the toxicity of traditional myeloablative regimens. Potential issues that may need
   to be addressed include the possibility of spontaneous 6TG resistance arising in leukemic cells after
   allogeneic transplantation for hematopoietic malignancies, and possible exacerbation of graft-vs.-host
25 disease when allogeneic donor cells are selectively amplified in vivo.
   References
   [1]       Biffi A, Cesani M. Curr Gene Ther. 2008;8:135-146.
   [2]       Persons DA, Nienhuis AW. Curr Opin Mol Ther. 2002;4:491-498.
   [3]       Williams DA, Hsieh K, DeSilva A, Mulligan RC. J Exp Med. 1987;166:210-218.
30 [4]       Mickisch GH, Aksentijevich I, Schoenlein PV, et al. Blood. 1992;79:1087-1093.
   [5]       Sorrentino BP, Brandt SJ, Bodine D, et al. Science. 1992;257:99-103.
   [6]       Zaboikin M, Srinivasakumar N, Schuening F. Cancer Gene Ther. 2006;13:335-345.
   [7]       Southgate T, Fairbairn U. Expert Rev Mol Med. 2004;6:1-24.
   [8]       Milsom MD, Williams DA. DNA Repair (Amst). 2007;6:1210-1221.
35 [9]       Neff T, Beard BC, Kiem HP. Blood. 2006;107:1751-1760.
   [10]      Schambach A, Baum C. DNA Repair (Amst). 2007;6:1187-1196.
   [11]      Aubrecht J, Goad ME, Schiestl RH. J Pharmacol Exp Ther. 1997;282:1102-1108.
   [12]      Stout JT, Caskey CT. Annu Rev Genet. 1985;19:127-148.
   [13]      Fontenelle U, Henderson JF. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1969;177:175-176.
40 [14]      Holmsen H, Rozenberg MC. Biochim Biophys Acta. 1968;157:266-279.
                                                         21

   [15]      Lajtha LG, Vane JR. Nature. 1958;182:191-192.
   [16]      Lowy BA, Ramot B, London IM. J Biol Chem. 1960;235:2920-2923.
   [17]      Elion GB. Science. 1989;244:41-47.
   [18]      Ansell JD, Samuel K, Whittingham DG, et al. Development. 1991;112:489-498.
 5 [19]      Torres RJ, Puig JG. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2007;2:48.
   [20]      van der Zee SP, Schretlen ED, Monnens LA. Lancet. 1968;1:1427.
   [21]      Seegmiller JE, et al.. Adv Exp Med Biol. 1977;76A:412-433.
   [22]      Porter CC, DeGregori J. Blood. 2008; 112:4466-4474.
   [23]      Hooper M, Hardy K, Handyside A, Hunter S, Monk M. Nature. 1987;326:292-295.
10 [24]      Bryder D, Rossi DJ, Weissman IL. Am J Pathol. 2006;169:338-346.
   [25]      Rondon G, Giralt S, Pereira M, et al. Leuk Lymphoma. 1997;25:463-467.
   [26]      Brazelton TR, Blau HM. Stem Cells. 2005;23:1251-1265.
   [27]      Krause DS, Theise ND, Collector MI, et al. Cell. 2001;105:369-377.
   [28]      Olsen NJ, Kovacs WJ. Immunol Res. 2001;23:281-288.
15 [29]      Olsen NJ, Gu X, Kovacs WJ. J Clin Invest. 2001;108:1697-1704.
   [30]      Kelley WN, Wyngaarden, J.B. In: J.B. Stanbury JBW, et al., ed. The Metabolic Basis of Inherited
             Disease, 5th ed. New York: McGraw Hill; 1983. p. 1115-1143.
   [31]      Lesch M, Nyhan WL. Am J Med. 1964;36:561-570.
   [32]      Lo YF, Palmour RM. Biochem Genet. 1979;17:737-746.
20 [33]      Mojas N, Lopes M, Jiricny J. Genes Dev. 2007;21:3342-3355.
   [34]      An DS, Qin FX, Auyeung VC, et al. Mol Ther. 2006;14:494-504.
   [35]      Grimm D, Streetz KL, Jopling CL, et al. Nature. 2006;441:537-541.
   Example 2: Creation of HPRT-deficient cells
   This example is directed at translational application to ex vivo gene therapy in the autologous setting,
25 employing both third-generation lentiviral vectors expressing different HPRT-targeted shRNA candidate
   sequences, as well as nucleofection of zinc finger nucleases (ZFN) targeting HPRT. The latter approach
   is advantageous as only transient expression of the ZFN construct is needed to achieve permanent
   knockout of the target gene, thereby mitigating the potential for insertional mutagenesis as a result of the
   genetic engineering procedure. In this context, this strategy is unique in imparting a selective advantage
30 to transplanted cells through an enzyme deficiency, rather than inserting a new transgene to achieve
   chemoresistance. HPRT-targeted shRNA was successful in down-regulating HPRT to undetectable
   levels. In addition, HPRT has been successfully knocked out using ZFN.
35 From the foregoing it will be appreciated that, although specific embodiments of the invention have been
   described herein for purposes of illustration, various modifications may be made without deviating from
   the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly, the invention is not limited except as by the appended
   claims.
                                                        22

                                              CLAIMS
   1.  A method of radiation-free hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplantation, the method
       comprising:
       (a) administering to a mammalian subject one or two doses of 2 to 10 mg/kg body weight
 5          of a purine base analog selected from 6-thioguanine (6TG), 6-mercaptopurine (6-MP),
            or azathiopurine (AZA), as a pre-conditioning step;
       (b) engrafting into the subject hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT)
            deficient donor HSCs within 48 to 72 hours of the pre-conditioning step; and
       (c) administering to the subject about 1 to 5 mg/kg of the purine base analog every two to
10          four days for two to eight weeks following the engrafting step;
       wherein the method is performed in the absence of pre-conditioning via radiation.
   2.  The method of claim 1, wherein the purine base analog is 6TG.
   3.  The method of claim 1, wherein the total 6TG dosage administered to the subject does not
       exceed 105 mg.
15 4.  The method of claim 1, wherein the total 6TG dosage administered to the subject does not
       exceed 75 mg.
   5.  The method of claim 1, wherein the administering of step (c) is performed every 3 days and
       for not more than four weeks following the engrafting step.
   6.  The method of claim 1, wherein the subject exhibits over 75% genetically modified
20     hematopoietic cells.
   7.  The method of claim 1, wherein the subject exhibits over 95% genetically modified
       hematopoietic cells.
   8.  The method of claim 1, wherein the HPRT-deficient HSCs to be transplanted have been
       rendered HPRT-deficient via introduction of sequences encoding zinc finger nucleases
25     (ZFNs), transcriptional activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs), small fragment
       homologous recombination (SFHR) template strands, inhibitory RNAs (siRNAs) or
       microRNAs (miRNAs), antisense RNAs, trans-splicing RNAs, ribozymes, intracellular
       antibodies, or dominant-negative or competitive inhibitor proteins.
   9.  The method of claim 1, wherein the HPRT-deficient HSCs to be transplanted have been
30     genetically modified.
   10. The method of claim 1, wherein the transplanted HSCs are autologous or syngeneic.
   11. The method of claim 1, wherein the transplanted HSCs are allogeneic.
   12. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is not treated with myeloablative radiation.
                                                 23

13. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject has a hereditary or genetic disorder, an
    acquired disease affecting lymphohematopoietic cells, or a lymphohematopoietic
    malignancy.
                                         24

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2746>
                                <U+2736><U+2734><U+273B>

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+2747>
                                <U+2737><U+2734><U+273B>

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761>s
<U+2737><U+2746><U+2732><U+2737>
<U+2747>
                               <U+2738>
                                <U+2734> <U+273B>

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                     <U+2739><U+2734><U+273B>

                    <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                         <U+273A><U+2734><U+273B>
<U+2763><U+2710>
<U+274B>   <U+2761>r
    <U+2709>   s<U+2739>  <U+2746><U+2739><U+2732> <U+2747>

         <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+274B><U+2710><U+2763><U+2709>r<U+2761>
<U+273A>
                               <U+273B> <U+2734> <U+273B>

