1001961071
           ABSTRACT
           The transponder module of a system for measurement of a race time
           comprises a time base in a microcontroller, which is activated upon receipt
       5   of a low-frequency electromagnetic field signal from a transmission antenna
           of a measuring system which is disposed at the level of a line of passage.
           The microcontroller, once woken up, is capable of measuring several
           successive intensities of the captured electromagnetic field in order to
           reconstruct a curve of the electromagnetic field and to determine a crossing
      10   time on the line of passage of the transponder module by means of the
           activated time base thereof in order to transmit, to a decoder unit of the
           measuring system, a signal of the result of the time of crossing determined
           by the microcontroller.

             113
         Coo
U-
     (9O
   <>V
                       r
    __2          (n
                  clL.

1001961071
                TRANSPONDER MODULE FOR DETERMINATION OF A
                       CROSSING TIME IN A MEASURING SYSTEM
                                       Field of the invention
                  The invention relates to a transponder module for determination of a
       5   crossing time on a line of passage for a sports competition in a system for
           measurement of a crossing time.
                  The invention relates likewise to a system for measurement or
           determination of at least one crossing time, which comprises at least one
           transponder module carried by a moving object.
      10          The invention likewise relates to the method for determination of a
           crossing time for activating the transponder module of the measuring
           system.
                                    Background of the invention
      15
                  For determination of a crossing time, several timing systems are
           known using several active transponder modules and each worn by a
           respective competitor. These timing systems generally use an antenna
           disposed on the ground near a line of passage, such as a finish line, and
      20   transmit a low-frequency signal, such as a frequency of the order of 125
           kHz. This low-frequency signal makes it possible to wake up each
           transponder module approaching a certain distance from the line of
           passage. Once the transporter         module    is woken up, two different
           implementations of the timing system are known, which are described in
      25   summary hereafter.
                  According to a first implementation, the woken-up transponder
           module uses a high-frequency communication, for example of the order of
           6.8 MHz, in order to communicate with a base station of the timing system.
                                                  1

1001961071
           It transmits messages which in particular contain the identification code
           thereof and several other items of information in a variable time interval
           according to the Aloha protocol. This Aloha protocol has been well known in
           the technical field since the 1970s and is described on the internet site
       5   https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ALOHAnet. It makes it possible for a plurality of
           transponder modules to transmit information on the same communication
           channel, but at random intervals.
                   At the level of a line of passage for measurement of a time, an
           antenna is provided on the ground or at the sides, which can receive in
      10   particular the identification code message of the transponder module. This
           antenna on the ground or at the sides can be the same antenna used in
           order to waken up the transponder module. Upon receipt of the message by
           the antenna on the ground or at the sides, a decoder is connected to the
           antenna. This decoder assigns a temporal stamp to the received message
      15   and likewise measures the RSSI force of the received signal. This force of
           the captured signal follows a typical or theoretical curve as represented in
           Figure 3. Thus the curve depends upon the orientation of the transponder
           module and upon the receiving antenna, taking into account the three
           measurement axes. On the basis of this curve, the decoder can determine
      20   the exact crossing time of the competitor with his transponder module by
           using a specific algorithm dedicated to a sports competition. Such an
           implementation is described in particular in the patent applications US
           2006/0097847 Al and WO 02/21141 Al.
                   According to a second implementation, the woken-up transponder
      25   module measures the force of the magnetic field of the low-frequency signal
           transmitted by the antenna on the ground or at the sides, which is the
           antenna for waking up the transponder module. Measurements of the force
           of the magnetic field are effected along one or more directions at regular
           intervals. The results of the measurements are sent by the transponder
      30   module using an ultrahigh-frequency UHF communication, for example at
           868 MHz or 915 MHz. These measurement results are received by a
           second antenna of a decoder. One or more measurement points can be
                                                 2

1001961071
           contained in the UHF signal of data transmitted by the transponder module.
           Likewise, there can be redundant information in the transmitted UHF signal.
                   Upon receipt of the UHF data signal, the decoder assigns a precise
           temporal stamp to the received message. As described above with
       5   reference to Figure 3 with the transponder module crossing near to or over
           the antenna on the ground, the force of the magnetic field measured by the
           transponder module follows a typical or theoretical curve. The force of the
           measured field depends upon the orientation of the transponder module,
           and also upon the transmitting antenna. On the basis of this curve, the
      10   decoder can determine the exact crossing time on the line of passage using
           a   specific   algorithm dedicated   to  a   sports  competition.  Such   an
           implementation is described in particular in the patent EP 1 447 681 B1 and
           the patent application CH 707 401 A2.
                 In order to obtain high precision in detection of the crossing time, a
      15   large number of data points must be supplied to the decoder. Thus, several
           measurement messages must be sent from the transponder module to the
           decoder. This limits the number of transponder modules which can be
           processed in parallel. Furthermore, this increases the width of the radio
           band which is used in order to transmit all this information, which is
      20   disadvantageous.
                 If the messages are lost during the HF or UHF communication, the
           force curves of the field are incomplete and the algorithm can detect the
           crossing only with reduced precision.
                 The patent application JP 2002-228777 A describes a system for
      25   measurement of the time of a moving object, in particular for a horse,
           bicycle or car race. A magnetic field is generated by windings disposed
           under the ground of the racecourse at lines of passage in order to make it
           possible to obtain a crossing time on the basis of a peak value of the
           intensity of the magnetic field measured by a transponder module disposed
      30   on the moving object. Three magnetic sensors can be provided in the
           transponder module in order to measure the magnetic field along the three
           measurement axes. A time gap can also be defined by the detection of two
           peak values on two successive lines of passage. The measurement data of
                                                  3

1001961071
           the peak value of the magnetic field are stored in the transponder module
           and can be transmitted upon finishing the race to a decoder in order to
           determine the intermediate times and a final time of the race of the moving
           object.
       5           In this patent application JP 2002-228777 A, it is not provided to
           effect measurements of several points of the magnetic field in the
           transponder module and to reconstruct the curve of the magnetic field in
           order to determine precisely the crossing time in the transponder module.
           Furthermore, the transponder module does not transmit the result of the
      10   crossing time determined in particular on the finish line according to the
           Aloha protocol on a finishing decoder, which constitutes a disadvantage.
           Furthermore, the finish decoder is not in a position to process, in parallel,
           information from a large number of transponder modules crossing the line of
           passage at the same moment, which constitutes another disadvantage.
      15           No system of the state of the art makes it possible to take into
           account the finishing time with precise and simple processing for a very
           large number of transponder modules which are to be identified separately
           and which are able, at the same moment in the race, to cross over the line
           of passage.
      20           Reference   to   any   prior   art  in  the   specification is not an
           acknowledgment or suggestion that this prior art forms part of the common
           general knowledge in any jurisdiction or that this prior art could reasonably
           be expected to be understood, regarded as relevant, and/or combined with
           other pieces of prior art by a skilled person in the art.
      25
                                      Summary of the invention
                   An aim of preferred embodiments of the invention is therefore to
           address at least one of the disadvantages of the state of the art, mentioned
      30   above, by proposing a transponder module disposed on a moving object of
           a system for measurement of a crossing time for precise determination of a
           crossing time on a line of passage.
                                                    4

1001961071
                  To this end, the invention relates to a transponder module intended to
           be disposed on a moving object in order to determine at least one crossing
           time on a line of passage, which comprises the features defined in the
           independent claim 1.
       5          Particular embodiments of the transponder module are defined in the
           dependent claims 2 to 8.
                  One advantage of the transponder module disposed on a moving
           object in a sports competition resides in the fact that, as the measurement
           of the crossing time is determined directly in the transponder module by
      10   reconstruction of the curve of the magnetic field on the basis of various
           measurement points, the quantity of data transmitted by the transponder
           module is greatly reduced. This likewise increases the              number of
           transponder modules which can be processed in parallel by the decoder unit
           of the measuring system. For example, approximately a hundred activated
      15   transponder modules can be processed in parallel. Furthermore, this
           reduces the radio band width used for the communication.
                  Advantageously, transmission of the result of the measurement of the
           crossing time can be effected at regular intervals following receipt of the
           wake-up and synchronisation signal of the electromagnetic field, or at
      20   variable intervals according to the Aloha protocol.
                  Advantageously, loss of UHF messages during signal transmission
           from the transponder module does not reduce the determination precision of
           a race time of the measuring system. All the data points are still available for
           detection in the measuring system, given that it is the transponder module
      25   which determines the crossing time on the line of passage. This can be
           specially advantageous in difficult radio environments.
                  Advantageously, as the radio communication results in a large
           consumption of power in the transponder module which is greater than the
           actual calculation by the dedicated algorithm, the lifetime of the battery of
      30   the transponder module can be increased. This results from the fact that few
           data messages are transmitted by the transponder module to the decoder
                                                   5

1001961071
           unit. Furthermore, the microprogram of the transponder module can be
           easily updated.
                   To   this end, the invention       likewise relates to a system for
           measurement of at least one crossing time of at least one transponder
       5   module for measurement of a crossing time on a line of passage, which
           comprises the features defined in the independent claim 9.
                   Particular embodiments of the measuring system are defined in the
           dependent claims 10 to 15.
                   To this end, the invention relates also to a method for determination
      10   of a crossing time for activating at least one transponder module of a
           measuring system, which comprises the features defined in the independent
           claim 16.
                   Particular steps of the method are defined in the dependent claims 17
           to 20.
      15
                                   Brief description of the drawings
                   The aims, advantages and features of the transponder module
           disposed on a moving object in an automated measuring system, the
      20   system and the method for determination of a crossing time for activating
           the transponder module according to the invention will appear more clearly
           in the following description of at least one embodiment which is non-limiting
           and illustrated by the drawings, in which:
                   Figure 1 represents schematically an automated measuring system,
      25   which comprises a plurality of transponder modules for implementing a
           method according to the invention for measurement of at least one crossing
           time on a line of passage in a sports competition,
                   Figure 2 represents an embodiment of a transponder module for
           determination of at least one crossing time on a line of passage according to
      30   the invention, and
                                                    6

1001961071
                   Figure 3 represents a graph of the shape of the magnetic field
           measured according to the three spatial directions during crossing of the
           line of passage.
       5
                                  Detailed description of the invention
                   In the following description, all the elements of the measuring system
           and of the transponder module for determination of a crossing time on a line
      10   of passage, which are well known to the persons skilled in the art in this
           technical field, will be referred to only in a simplified manner.
                   Figure 1 represents schematically an automated measuring system
           1, which can be used in principle in any type of sports competition in order
           to determine a race time or likewise a crossing order of a moving object.
      15   This measuring system 1 can, for example, be used for an athletics
           competition, a cycle race, a horse race, a car race or any other sports
           competition. This moving object can be a competitor, a horse, a bicycle, a
           vehicle.
                   The    measuring     system    1 preferably      includes  at least  one
      20   transmission unit 2 for generating a low-frequency signal LF, which is an
           electromagnetic field signal transmitted via a transmission antenna 3
           disposed on the ground or on the side or sides of the line or above. It can
           also preferably be centred on a line of passage 6, which can be an
           intermediate line of passage or a finish line. The system likewise comprises
      25   one or more transponder modules 10, defined as TAG1, TAG2, TAG3,
           TAG4, each able to be disposed on a moving object, such as a competitor
           or a cycle or a car or a racehorse or other animal. Each transponder module
           10 is personalised to the object on which it is placed. Finally the system
           includes a receiver unit or decoder unit 4 for receiving via a receiver
      30   antenna 5 UHF high-frequency signals transmitted                by the activated
           transponder modules for determining a crossing time on a line of passage 6.
                                                     7

1001961071
           Transmission unit 2 and decoder unit 4 are connected and controlled by a
           data-processing station 7.
                   It should be noted that the processing station 7 can be used for
           processing information from the decoder unit 4 and displaying the various
       5   times of the runners, horses or vehicles with their ranking. The decoder unit
           4 can also be used for programming each transponder module 10, as
           explained hereafter, by transmission of a high-frequency signal with digital
           or GFSK modulation of data or commands. This Figure 1 does not show a
           possible second antenna for effecting transmission to the transponder
      10   module. The signal transmitted by the decoder unit 4 can also be used to
           personalise    said  module,   for   example,    to  the  respective   runner.
           Furthermore, the UHF signal transmitted by the decoder unit 4 can also
           make it possible to deactivate each transponder module once the line of
           passage 6 has been crossed by said moving object with the transponder
      15   module.
                   Each transponder module 10 approaching the line of passage 6 can
           be woken up by the electromagnetic field signal, generally at low-frequency.
           Furthermore for synchronisation of the transponder module 10, it can be
           provided also to transmit an electromagnetic field signal with modulation of
      20   a synchronisation command from the antenna 3 of the transmission unit 2,
           following wake-up of the transponder module 10. The personalised
           transponder module 10 is preferably a transponder module of the active
           type, i.e. provided with a battery for electrical supply of the electronic
           components forming it. In principle, in order to be able to implement the
      25   dedicated algorithm for determination of the crossing time, the transponder
           module must be of the active type. However, in order to reduce the electrical
           consumption thereof, it is generally in a rest mode.
                  As represented in Figure 1, the first transponder module TAG1 is
           located on the line of passage 6 which can be the finish line. It is woken up
      30   and possibly synchronised by the low-frequency signal LF modulated by the
           transmission antenna 3. The second transponder module TAG2 is located
           at a distance near the transmission antenna 3 and able to be woken up by
                                                   8

1001961071
           the low-frequency signal LF. The third transponder module TAG3 is located
           at a distance far away from the transmission antenna 3. Hence, the third
           transponder module is not able to be woken up by the low-frequency signal
           LF and remains in a rest mode. The fourth transponder module TAG4 is
       5   shown having crossed the finish line and, in this case, it is able to receive a
           command from the decoder unit 4 to deactivate it and place it in a rest
           mode. However the fourth transponder module TAG4 can also be
           disconnected     automatically   after  several   repetitions   of  successive
           transmitted messages. This fourth transponder module TAG4 was able to
      10   determine the crossing time in the transponder module, as explained
           hereafter, by having provided the result to the decoder unit 4 for precise
           determination of the crossing time.
                   One embodiment of the transponder module 10, which can be used
           for any type of sports competition, is represented in Figure 2. The
      15   transponder module 10 can comprise a signal receiver 14, such as low
           frequency signals, in order to receive low-frequency signals, such as
           electromagnetic field signals, via an antenna 13. This reception antenna 13
           can preferably be a triaxial antenna.
                   In order to reduce the electrical consumption of the transponder
      20   module, a power handling unit 18 can be provided. The battery can be part
           of this handling unit or be connected thereto. The power handling unit 18
           makes it possible to control the electrical supply of the electronic
           components of the transponder module, normally upon receipt of a wake-up
           and    possibly  synchronisation    command     of   a   low-frequency   signal
      25   transmitted by the antenna 3. This synchronisation can be obtained by a
           modulation, for example all or nothing.
                  The transponder module 10 also comprises a transmitter or a high
           frequency transmitter-receiver 16 for transmission of UHF signals via an
           antenna 15 or a set of antennae with electromagnetic coupling of one or
      30   more information signals. These information signals are at a carrier
           frequency situated between 300 MHz and 3,000 MHz, or other frequencies
           outside this band of frequencies. The information signal or signals are
                                                  9

1001961071
           transmitted upon command of a microcontroller 12 to the decoder unit 4 of
           the measuring system 1 of Figure 1. The transponder module also
           comprises a time base 121 integrated in the microcontroller 12, which can
           be synchronised via the electromagnetic field signal LF which is modulated
       5   and captured. A memory 122 of the microcontroller 12 makes it possible to
           store all the measurements or forces of the electromagnetic field captured
           by the triaxial antenna 13.
                    The transponder module can also comprise a movement sensor 11,
           such as an accelerometer, in order to facilitate and improve determination of
      10   a race time. This movement sensor 11 is connected to the microcontroller
           12. In the case of a sports competition, such as a cycle race on a track, the
           line of passage can comprise a strip of a certain thickness. The movement
           sensor of the transponder module disposed on the frame of the cycle can
           detect a steep variation in movement following impact of the cycle wheel on
      15   said crossing strip. Thus, it can provide information in a UHF signal
           transmitted by the transponder module 10.
                    The low-frequency signal receiver 14 of the transponder module 10 is
           connected to the microcontroller 12 and to the power handling unit 18. At
           the output, the receiver can also possibly be connected to an amplifier 17
      20   which provides an amplified reception signal to the microcontroller 12 for
           measurement of the level of the field captured by the transponder module.
           This makes it possible to increase the measurement dynamics. Hence, it is
           possible to capture very small low-frequency signals or very strong low
           frequency signals.
      25            Once activated, the transponder module 10 can measure, via the
           triaxial   antenna   13, one    or  more   successive groups     of  intensity
           measurements of the captured electromagnetic field. It can measure various
           intensity points of the captured electromagnetic field. A group of intensity
           measurements comprises three measurements of the electromagnetic field
      30   along the axes X, Y, Z, captured by the triaxial antenna 13 at a given time
           once the time base 121 of the microcontroller 12 is activated and possibly
           synchronised. This time base 121 starts the count of the time once
                                                 10

1001961071
           activated. Each group of intensity measurements of the electromagnetic
           field defines a data packet or a data point relating to each determined
           measurement       time.   These    measurements       according   to   the   three
           measurement axes are generally defined by a circuit for indicating the force
       5   of the received signal. Each intensity measurement group which is obtained
           can be stored in the memory 122 of the microcontroller 12 in the
           transponder module 10. Preferably, two, three, four or more intensity
           measurement groups are obtained, for example at regular time intervals or
           at random time intervals, which are stored. A larger number of intensity
      10   measurements can be considered in the transponder module in order to be
           able to determine precisely the crossing time by reconstruction of the
           magnetic or electromagnetic field curve in said transponder module.
                   By way of illustration, Figure 3 represents a graph of the shape of the
           magnetic field measured along the three spatial directions X, Y, Z during
      15   crossing of the line of passage Lp. As a function of the orientation of the
           transponder module, for example as shown in Figure 3, the X axis is the
           direction of movement of the transponder module and gives the curve            XT,
           the axis Z defines the vertical direction whilst giving the curve     ZT,  and the
           axis   Y gives the       curve   YT.   Several   measurement      points   of the
      20   electromagnetic field can be measured upon activation of the transponder
           module 10 of Figure 2. These various measurement points along the three
           axes are stored in the memory             122 of the microcontroller        12. A
           reconstruction of the curve of the magnetic field can be calculated in the
           microcontroller 12 in order to determine precisely the crossing time in the
      25   transponder     module    10    according  to   the   time   base    121   of the
           microcontroller 12.
                   The   transponder     module    10   has    a   dedicated   algorithm    or
           microprogram in the microcontroller 12 in order to determine the precise
           crossing time of the line of passage. This determination of the precise time
      30   is effected directly in the integrated circuit of the transponder module 10 by
           using the dedicated microprogram. For this determination of the time, once
           the time base 121 thereof is activated, the transponder module analyses the
                                                   11

1001961071
           measured curve of the electromagnetic field on the basis of several intensity
           measurement points. This makes it possible for it to determine precisely the
           crossing time in order to send the result of this determination to the decoder
           unit via a UHF communication. The evaluation value of the time of the
       5   activated time base of the transponder module can also be sent with the
           crossing time. This allows the decoder unit to determine precisely the exact
           crossing time after temporal conversion.
                  The UHF communication for transmitting the results to the decoder
           unit can use one or more UHF channels by using frequency hopping.
      10   Frequency hopping can be according to a hopping diagram which is fixed or
           established randomly. The transmission can be synchronised in time by the
           frame of the LF wake-up field, or can occur at random intervals using the
           Aloha protocol. In order to avoid collisions with messages from other
           transponder modules 10, it uses the method "Listen Before Talk" LBT
      15   according to any configuration. The transponder module 10 repeats a
           transmitted result until it receives confirmation from the decoder unit using a
           UHF return channel (uplink) or until it reaches a dead time or an
           interruption.
                  According to Figures 1 and 2, the transponder module 10 therefore
      20   contains its own time base 121 and generates the result of determination of
           a crossing time relative to this time base. As indicated previously, with each
           message, it can send, to the decoder unit 4, also the current value of the
           time base thereof. The decoder unit 4 assigns or attributes, to each
           message received from the transponder module, a temporal stamp. This
      25   temporal stamp is preferably synchronised to the time of day. By using a
           temporal stamp, the current value of the time base of the transponder
           module 10 and the result transmitted by the transponder module, the
           decoder unit 4 can calculate the precise crossing time relative to its own
           time base.
      30          For each crossing, the activated transponder module 10 can send
           three messages. A first message as a first contact after wake-up, a second
           message as a prediction of the exact crossing before the actual crossing of
                                                   12

1001961071
           the line of passage 6 according to the result of the detection algorithm, and
           a third message with the exact crossing time which is also a result of the
           detection algorithm. The first contact message is used in order to identify a
           transponder module 10 which is activated and near the line of passage 6.
       5   Prediction of the crossing can be used in order to stop a current time on a
           display panel or on a television such that it never comes back once the
           exact time of the crossing is known. The last or third message with the exact
           crossing time is generated from 50 to 100 ms after the actual crossing of the
           line of passage. This last message is used in order to determine a final
      10   ranking or as an input for a photofinish camera in order to obtain the result
           more rapidly.
                   It should be noted that algorithms for detecting the crossing time can
           change for various reasons, for example as a function of the orientations of
           the various antennae which are used, of the movements of the transponder
      15   module passing the antenna. For this reason, it is essential that the
           microprogram      of the transponder       module  10 which     contains  such
           algorithms, is updated in a simple manner. Even having this algorithm in
           several transponder modules, sometimes more than 100 transponder
           modules, it is possible that the decoder unit 4 allows updating of the
      20   microprogram of each transponder module 10 using the same UHF link as
           the latter which is used to take into account receipt of the results. Booting
           up software in the decoder unit 4 can be provided for updating the
           microprogram of each transponder module. Thus an unlimited set of
           transponder modules 10 can be updated simultaneously. In principle, this
      25   updating of the microprogram or dedicated algorithm of each module can be
           effected before the start of the sports competition.
                   In order to update the microprogram, the decoder unit 4 or possibly a
           dedicated updating device for transponder modules 10 sends, after receipt
           of a first contact message, a special unblocking command using the return
      30   channel (uplink). Then, it repeats transmission of the entire microprogram
           several times, and after each transmission of the microprogram, each
           transponder module 10 responds. Once the transponder module 10 is
                                                   13

1001961071
           unblocked     for  updating,   confirmation   of   receipt  of   the  complete
           microprogram at the decoder unit 4 or at the updating device stops
           transmission of the microprogram.
                   It should be noted also that, instead of transmitting the results to the
       5   decoder unit 4 of Figure 1 using a proprietory UHF communication, the
           transponder module 10 can also be connected to a sensor network using
           any standard broadband technology, for example UMTS/HSPA (3G), LoRa
           (LPWAN), or others, as are used in loT applications (internet of things). In
           such a solution, the transponder module 10 must be synchronised on the
      10   network in order to send the results directly with a temporal stamp which is
           synchronised relative to the local time of day or UTC. The synchronisation
           can occur at the moment of wake-up of the transponder module 10 by the
           electromagnetic field signal transmitted via the antenna 3 of Figure 1 with a
           synchronisation modulation relative to the time base of the decoder unit 4.
      15   This modulation in the wake-up signal at 125 kHz can be effected via an all
           or nothing modulation (ON-OFF Keying).
                   For this modulation of the wake-up electromagnetic field signal, an
           identification code of the antenna can also be modulated in order to define
           which antenna is providing the electromagnetic field signal for the
      20   transponder module detecting it. After transmission of the wake-up
           commands, synchronisation and subsequently transmission of data, the
           generated LF electromagnetic field signal no longer varies in frequency and
           in amplitude in order to allow measurement of the intensity of the
           electromagnetic field by each activated transponder module.
      25           As indicated previously, the time base 121 in the microcontroller 12 of
           the transponder module 10 of Figure 2 can be synchronised, once woken
           up, to the time base of the decoder unit in order to provide a precise
           crossing time transmitted by the transponder module. This synchronisation
           can be transmitted by a modulation of the all or nothing type in the low
      30   frequency electromagnetic field signal LF.
                   An explanation is also given below in order to understand clearly the
           manner of determining the precise crossing time on the line of passage 6 by
                                                   14

1001961071
           means of measurements effected in the transponder module 10. It should
           be noted first of all that it is not necessary to transmit the current time of the
           race to the transponder module 10 for determination of a crossing time in
           said module. The measuring system 1 is designed so that it can operate
       5   without a return communication (uplink) from the decoder unit 4 to the
           transponder module 10.
                   Each transponder module 10 has its own time base 121 which begins
           to count from wake-up of the transponder module. The algorithm in the
           transponder module 10 calculates the crossing time relative to its own time
      10   base 121. When it transmits the result to the decoder unit 4, it transmits the
           crossing time Tp plus the value of the counting time of the activated time
           base thereof, when it sends the message Ts. Transmission of the message
           takes a known fixed time Tv which is the flight time of the UHF signal from
           the transponder module 10 to the decoder unit 4. The decoder unit 4
      15   assigns or attributes a temporal stamp which is synchronised to the time of
           day Trt to each received message. Thus it can convert the temporal stamp
           of the transponder module 10 to a temporal stamp of the time of day Tpt
           according to the following formula:
                   Tpt= Trt - Tv - (Ts - Tp) = Trt - Tv - Ts + Tp
      20           The advantage of this time measuring system is that it can operate
           with a radio communication in a single direction from the transponder
           module 10 to the decoder unit 4.
                   In a numbered example for understanding the functioning, the
           transponder module 10 wakes up and the time base thereof begins at 0 s.
      25   For example 600 ms later, it crosses the finish line. Approx. 50 ms later, the
           algorithm analysing the curve detects that the line of passage has been
           crossed and calculates, on the basis of all the data, which were taken since
           wake-up of the transponder module 10, the crossing time via the time base
           of the transponder module 10. This means that it calculates the crossing
      30   time for example at 599 ms.
                                                    15

1001961071
                   After that, the transponder module 10 sends the message of the
           result of the determined crossing time with the crossing time Tp equal to
           599 ms and the transmission time Ts equal to 650 ms. The decoder unit 4
           receives this message for example at 14 h 1 min 32 s, with the UHF
       5   transmission time or flight time Tv which is 2 ms. According to the following
           calculation, this gives:
                     Tpt = Trt - Tv  - Ts + Tp = 14 h 1 min 32s- 2 ms -650       ms + 599
           ms
                       = 14 h 1 min 31 s 947 ms
      10         In order to be sure that the information is received by the decoder unit
           4, the transponder module 10 repeats the result 14 ms later, and it sends:
                 Tp equal to 599 ms (the same for the same crossing) and Ts equal to
           664 ms (changed because 14 ms later).
                 The decoder receives this message at 14 h 1 min 32 s 14 ms and
      15   calculates:
                 Tpt=Trt-Tv-Ts+Tp=14h1 min32s14ms-2ms-664ms+
                     599 ms = 14 h 1 min 31 s947 ms
                 This corresponds to the same result as previously, hence the decoder
           unit 4 knows that this is redundant information. The result calculated in the
      20   transponder module 10 is generally transmitted with repetition until the
           decoder unit 4 tells it to stop via a return communication (uplink) or when an
           interruption occurs.
                 It should be noted that, according to a variant of the measuring system
           of a crossing time, the transponder module 10 can likewise transmit only the
      25   time since the crossing Tsp, which is equal to Ts - Tp instead of two
           separate items of information. The calculation in the decoder unit 4 would
           consequently become:
                 Tpt = Trt - Tv - Ts - Tsp
                 With this, the advantage is that less information need be transmitted
      30   from the transponder module 10 to the decoder unit 4. The electrical
                                                    16

1001961071
           consumption of the transponder module is therefore greatly reduced relative
           to the functioning of measuring systems of the state of the art.
                 For the method for determination of a crossing time, the transponder
           module 10 must firstly be woken up by detection of the low-frequency LF
       5   electromagnetic field of the antenna 3 of Figure 1. Then the activated
           transponder module 10 can measure several successive intensities of the
           captured electromagnetic field in order to reconstruct the curve of the
           electromagnetic or magnetic field directly in the transponder module. In this
           way, it can determine the crossing time directly. This crossing time is
      10   determined as a function of the time base of the transponder module. The
           result of the calculation of this crossing time is subsequently transmitted by
           the transponder module to the decoder unit 4 of the measuring system 1.
           There is likewise transmitted by the transponder module in the same
           message, the value of the time base of the transponder module 10 which
      15   can be synchronised at the moment of wake-up. A temporal adaptation is
           effected in the decoder unit 4 in order to determine precisely and easily the
           exact crossing time following a message received from the transponder
           module.
                 From the description which has just been given, several variants of the
      20   transponder module, of the system and of the method for determination of at
           least one crossing time of a line of passage in a sports competition can be
           imagined by the person skilled in the art without departing from the scope of
           the invention defined by the claims. It can also be imagined that the
           transponder module is activated before detection of the signal of the low
      25   frequency electromagnetic field.
                                                   17

1001961071
           CLAIMS
                  1.      A transponder module intended to be disposed on a moving
           object for determination of a crossing time on a line of passage for a sports
       5   competition of a measuring system, the system comprising at least one
           transmission unit of a low-frequency electromagnetic field signal via an
           antenna disposed at the level of the line of passage, and a decoder unit, in
           order at least to receive at least one measurement signal from the activated
           transponder module near the line of passage, the transponder module
      10   comprising a low-frequency signal receiver in order to receive the
           electromagnetic field signal via a receiving antenna in order to be woken up
           by this electromagnetic field signal, a microcontroller receiving a receiving
           signal from the receive, at least one transmitter linked to the microcontroller
           for transmission via a high-frequency antenna of at least one measurement
      15   result in a high-frequency measurement signal,
                 wherein that the transponder module comprises a time base in the
           microcontroller,    the time   base   being  activated   upon   receiving the
           electromagnetic field signal, and
                 wherein that the microcontroller, once woken up, is capable of
      20   measuring several successive intensities of the captured electromagnetic
           field signal in order to reconstruct an electromagnetic field curve and to
           determine a crossing time of the transponder module by means of the
           activated time base thereof, in order to transmit, to the decoder unit of the
           measurement system, the result of the crossing time determined by the
      25   microcontroller.
                  2.      The transponder module according to claim 1, wherein the
           receiving antenna is a triaxial antenna in order to make it possible for the
           microcontroller to measure several successive intensities of the captured
           low-frequency electromagnetic field signal along three measurement axes.
      30          3.      The transponder module according to claim 1, wherein that the
           microcontroller comprises a memory in order to store all the intensities of
                                                  18

1001961071
           the captured electromagnetic field in order to make it possible for the
           microcontroller to reconstruct the curve of the electromagnetic field and to
           determine the crossing time on the line of passage of the measuring
           system.
       5         4.      The transponder module according to claim 1, wherein it is
           intended to transmit, to the decoder unit of the measuring system, the value
           of the activated time base with the result of the crossing time determined by
           the microcontroller.
                 5.      The transponder module according to claim 1, wherein a
      10   dedicated algorithm or microprogram is stored in the microcontroller in order
           to allow determination of the crossing time by means of the activated time
           base thereof.
                 6.      The transponder module according to claim 5, wherein the
           transponder module comprises a transmitter-receiver in order to receive, via
      15   the high-frequency antenna, once activated, a signal for updating the
           algorithm or microprogram by the decoder unit of the measuring system or
           by a dedicated updating device.
                 7.      The transponder module according to claim 1, wherein the
           low-frequency signal receiver is intended to capture, via the receiving
      20   antenna,    an    electromagnetic    field  signal    with  modulation    of   a
           synchronisation command in order to synchronise the time base of the
           transponder module on the basis of a time base of the decoder unit of the
           measuring system .
                 8.      The transponder module according to claim 1, wherein it is
      25   provided to transmit several times the result of the crossing time determined
           in the microcontroller at regular time intervals or at random time intervals for
           the decoder unit of the measuring system, until receiving confirmation from
           the decoder unit using a UHF channel via the high-frequency antenna of a
           transmitter-receiver of the transponder module , or until it reaches a dead
      30   time or an interruption in transmission.
                                                   19

1001961071
                 9.       A measuring system of at least one crossing time, which
           comprises at least one transponder module according to one of the
           preceding claims for determination of a crossing time on a line of passage,
           said transponder module being carried by a moving object, the system
       5   comprising     at  least  one    transmission    unit  of   a    low-frequency
           electromagnetic field signal via a transmission antenna disposed at the level
           of the line of passage and a decoder unit in order at least to receive at least
           one measurement signal from the activated transponder module near the
           line of passage, the transponder module comprising a low-frequency signal
      10   receiver in order to receive the electromagnetic field signal via a receiving
           antenna in order to be woken up by this electromagnetic field signal, a
           microcontroller receiving a receipt signal from the receiver, at least one
           transmitter linked to the microcontroller for the transmission via a high
           frequency antenna of at least one measurement result in a high-frequency
      15   measurement signal,
                 wherein each transponder module comprises a time base in the
           microcontroller, the time base        being activated upon     receipt of the
           electromagnetic field signal generated by the transmission antenna,
                 wherein the microcontroller, once woken up, is capable of measuring
      20   several successive intensities of the captured electromagnetic field signal in
           order to reconstruct a curve of the electromagnetic field and to determine a
           crossing time of the transponder module by means of the activated time
           base thereof, in order to transmit, to the decoder unit of the measuring
           system, a signal of the result of the crossing time determined by the
      25   microcontroller, and
                 wherein the decoder unit assigns a temporal stamp to the signal about
           the result of the crossing time received from the transponder module in
           order to determine the exact crossing time on the basis of a time base of the
           decoder unit of the measuring system.
      30         10.      The measuring system according to claim 9, wherein the
           transponder module is intended to transmit, to the decoder unit of the
           measuring system , a signal of the value of the activated time base thereof
                                                  20

1001961071
           with the result of the crossing time determined by the microcontroller in the
           transponder module .
                 11.      The measuring system according to claim 10, wherein the
           decoder unit is intended to receive the measurement signal from the
       5   transponder module and to convert a temporal stamp of the time base of the
           transponder module to a temporal stamp of the time of day or the race time.
                 12.      The measuring system according to claim 9, wherein the
           decoder unit is provided in order to transmit, via the high-frequency
           antenna, a UHF signal for updating a dedicated algorithm or microprogram
      10   received by the high-frequency antenna from a transmitter-receiver of the
           transponder module.
                 13.      The measuring system according to claim 9, wherein the
           decoder unit is provided in order to transmit, via a UHF channel to the high
           frequency antenna of a transmitter-receiver of the transponder module,
      15   confirmation of good receipt of the measurement signal.
                 14.      The measuring system according to claim 13, wherein the
           decoder unit transmits an interruption signal in order to place the
           transponder module in a rest mode after receipt of the measuring signal
           from the transponder module.
      20         15.      The measuring system according to claim 9, wherein the
           transponder module and the decoder unit are provided in order to effect a
           UHF communication by using frequency hopping, in particular for the
           transmission of a signal about the result of the crossing time or repetition of
           the signal of the result of the crossing time transmitted from the transponder
      25   module.
                 16.      A method for measurement of at least one crossing time in a
           measuring system according to one of the claims 9 to 15, the measuring
           system comprising at least one transponder module according to one of the
           claims 1 to 8 for determination of a crossing time on a line of passage, the
      30   method comprising steps consisting of:
                                                  21

1001961071
                 - generating an electromagnetic field signal by a transmission unit of
           the measuring system,
                 - activating the personalised transponder module upon receipt of the
           electromagnetic field signal before crossing the line of passage,
       5         - measuring several intensities of the electromagnetic field signal in the
           transponder module, once woken up,
                 - determining, by reconstruction of a curve of the electromagnetic field
           in the transponder module which comprises a time base activated upon
           wake-up of the transponder module, a crossing time of the transponder
      10   module on the line of passage, and
                 - transmitting, via the transponder module, a signal of the result of the
           determination of the crossing time to a decoder unit of the measuring
           system for processing of the signal result received from the transponder
           module and precise determination of the crossing time of the line of
      15   passage.
                 17.      The method for measurement according to claim 16, wherein
           the activated transponder module sends a first message via a transmitter
           receiver to the decoder unit as a first contact after wake-up, a second
           message as a prediction of the crossing just before the actual crossing of
      20   the line of passage, and a third message with the exact crossing time
           determined in the transponder module.
                 18.      The method for measurement according to claim 17, wherein
           the prediction of the crossing of the line of the second message is used in
           the decoder unit in order to stop a race time on a display device and in order
      25   to avoid return back of the race time when the exact crossing time is known.
                 19.      The method for measurement according to claim 17, wherein
           the transponder module transmits, several times at regular or random
           temporal intervals, the signal of the result of the crossing time with the value
           of the activated time base thereof until receipt, via a UHF channel, of
      30   confirmation of receipt from the decoder unit.
                                                  22

1001961071
                 20.    The method for measurement according to claim 17, wherein
           the decoder unit transmits, via a UHF channel to the transponder module, a
           signal   for updating   the   dedicated    algorithm   or  microprogram for
           determination in the microcontroller of the crossing time.
       5
                                                 23

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
