                                              67
ULTRA-WIDEBAND RADAR AND ALOGRITHMS FOR USE IN DOG
COLLAR
        ABSTRACT
        A system and method for monitoring the health of an animal using multiple sensors is
described. The wearable device may include one or more sensors whose resultant signal levels
may be analyzed in the wearable device or uploaded to a data management server for additional
analysis. One or more embodiments include variations of the UWB system to accommodate
differences in animals.
14655241 1

                                                   1
ULTRA-WIDEBAND RADAR AND ALOGRITHMS FOR USE IN DOG
COLLAR
CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
2014374016, filed on 29 December 2014. The present application claims priority to U.S.
Provisional Application Serial No. 61/922,610, filed December 31, 2013, entitled "Ultra
Wideband Radar System for Animals," the contents of which are hereby incorporated by
reference in their entirety. The present application also claims priority to U.S. Provisional
Application Serial No. 61/922,220, filed December 31, 2013, entitled "Microwave Radiometry
Using Two Antennas," the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their
entirety. The present application also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Serial No.
61/922,417, filed December 31, 2013, entitled "Paired Thermometer Temperature
Determination," the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
Field of the disclosure
[0002] Aspects of the invention relate generally to animal safety, wellness, and health
monitoring. More particularly, some aspects of the invention relate to a viewing and system
management system that monitors a pet's health and wellness.
Background
[0003] Animals are far more stoic than humans and often do not complain or demonstrate pain
even while they are making adjustments to accommodate their distress. Through market
research, pet owners have made it quite clear that they do not need to be told that their pet is
sick, but rather they need to know when their pet is getting sick and what preventative steps they
should take in response. For example, if an owner knew her pet was getting sick, she could
increase her level of observation (e.g., observe whether the animal is eating, drinking, and/or
eliminating normally), increase or decrease certain activities (e.g., walks, etc.), and/or visit a
veterinarian.
[0004] Similarly, veterinarians have very limited visibility into the health of their animal
patients as most clinical encounters between a veterinarian and an animal patient are episodic in
14655241 1

                                                  2
nature. As such, during normal checkups veterinarians may not always perform or rely on
certain readings such as, e.g., blood pressure, respiration rate/variability, or core temperature
(sticking a thermometer in the animal's rectum) because such readings may stress the animal
further, may be difficult to perform (blood pressure), and/or are unreliable in a stressful clinical
setting (animals may exhibit elevated readings in a veterinarian's office with other animals
around - sometimes referred to as "white coat hypertension" or "white coat syndrome").
[0005] Accordingly, some past solutions have attempted to remotely monitor an animal in order
to provide an animal owner with data relating to the animal's health status while providing
veterinarians further data to assist in diagnosing animal health conditions. However, each of
these past solutions suffers drawbacks in that they do not provide a comprehensive view of the
animal's health and do not provide an owner and/or a veterinarian with adequate information to
determine the animal's health status.
[0006] Accordingly, there remains a need to provide a pet owner and/or a veterinarian with
comprehensive information regarding a pet or other animal's current status such that the pet
owner and/or veterinarian may better understand the wellness of a pet through non-invasive
remote monitoring in a stable home environment to pick up subtle vital signs indicators that
could be precursors to developing health conditions.
Summary
[0007] One or more aspects of the present disclosure relate to monitoring a pet or other animal's
health and wellness using two or more sensors in order to provide a pet owner, veterinarian, or
other party with content useful in monitoring the pet's overall condition. Also, inferences based
on analyses of different signals from different sensors monitoring an animal's vital signs,
physiological signs, or environmental factors may also be provided. Some aspects of the
disclosure provide a wearable device with embedded sensors whose operation may be governed
by various operating modes and/or profiles in addition to the signals from other sensors.
[0008] A system and method for monitoring the health of an animal using multiple sensors,
including, for example, a Ultra-Wide Band (UWB) transceiver is described. The wearable
device may include one or more sensors whose resultant signal levels may be analyzed in the
wearable device or uploaded to a data management server for additional analysis. One or more
embodiments include variations of the UWB system to accommodate differences in animals.
14655241 1

                                                  3
[0009] The various aspects summarized previously may be embodied in various forms. The
following description shows by way of illustration of various combinations and configurations
in which the aspects may be practiced. It is understood that the described aspects and/or
embodiments are merely examples, and that other aspects and/or embodiments may be utilized
and structural and functional modifications may be made, without departing from the scope of
the present disclosure.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0010] A more complete understanding of the present invention and the advantages thereof may
be acquired by referring to the following description in consideration of the accompanying
drawings, in which like reference numbers indicate like features.
[0011] Figure 1 is a schematic diagram of a wearable device for a pet and its components
according to some aspects of the disclosure.
[0012] Figure 2 is a functional block diagram illustrating the various types of information
received by the wearable device of Figure 1.
[0013] Figure 3 is a schematic diagram of a data management system and the various inputs
thereto used in conjunction with the wearable device of Figure 1 according to some aspects of
the disclosure.
[0014] Figure 4 illustrates a collar incorporating the wearable device of Figure 1.
[0015] Figure 5 illustrates a cross-sectional view of an animal's neck wearing the collar
depicted in Figure 4.
[0016] Figures 6A and 6B illustrate top and side views of an embodiment of the wearable
device of Figure 1.
[0017] Figure 7 shows a harness incorporating the wearable device of Figure 1.
[0018] Figure 8 is a flowchart depicting basic sensor processing according to some aspects of
the disclosure.
14655241 1

                                                 4
[0019] Figure 9 is a flowchart depicting processing of more than one sensor according to some
aspects of the disclosure.
[0020] Figure 10 is a flowchart depicting a sensor triggering other sensors according to some
aspects of the disclosure.
[0021] Figure 11 is a flowchart depicting an illustrative example of how an inference may be
formed using readings from different sensors according to some aspects of the disclosure.
[0022] Figure 12 is a flowchart illustrating using readings from sensors from the wearable
device and another sensor apart from the wearable device according to some aspects of the
disclosure.
[0023] Figure 13 shows a table with sensors and their related information in accordance with
one or more aspects of the disclosure.
[0024] Figure 14 is a table with potential master/slave relationships of various sensors identified
in Figure 13 in accordance with one or more embodiments of the disclosure.
[0025] Figure 15 shows an illustrative example of how the activation of the sensors of Figure 13
may be modified in different operation modes in accordance with one or more aspects of the
disclosure.
[0026] Figures 16A-16G are illustrative examples of various sensors and how their threshold or
thresholds, frequency of operation, and granularity may be modified based on different profiles
in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure.
[0027] Figure 17 shows an example of how various sensor profiles may be modified based on
breed information of the animal to which the monitoring devices attached in accordance with
one or more aspects of the disclosure.
[0028] Figure 18 shows an embodiment with different operation modes of the wearable device
in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure.
14655241 1

                                                 5
[0029] Figures 19A-19B show the order in which operation modes take precedence over
profiles based on the embodiment of Figure 18 in accordance with one or more aspects of the
disclosure.
[0030] Figure 20 shows an alternative embodiment with different profiles including profiles
replacing the operation modes of the embodiment of Figure 18 in accordance with one or more
aspects of the disclosure.
[0031] Figures 21 A-2 1B show the combination of different profiles of the embodiment of
Figure 20 with options of profile selection by one or more switches in accordance with one or
more aspects of the disclosure.
[0032] Figure 22 shows an illustrative example of how profiles may be selected in the wearable
device as well as in the DMS in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure.
[0033] Figure 23 shows an illustrative example of relevancy windows of readings of on sensor
in relation to other sensors in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure.
[0034] Figure 24 shows an example of different techniques for monitoring core temperature
including microwave radiometry and microwave thermometry in accordance with one or more
aspects of the disclosure.
[0035] Figure 25 shows a display of various conditions of a monitored animal in accordance
with aspects of the disclosure.
[0036] Figure 26 shows a specific display relating to one of the monitored conditions of the
animal of Figure 25 in accordance with aspects of the disclosure.
[0037] Figure 27 shows a method of using confidence metrics to determine the quality and/or
accuracy of data or segments thereof.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0038] In the following description of the various embodiments, reference is made to the
accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof, and in which is shown by way of illustration
14655241 1

                                                   6
various embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other
embodiments may be utilized and structural and functional modifications may be made without
departing from the scope of the present invention.
[0039] Aspects of the present disclosure are directed to a device worn by an animal including
one or more sensors for monitoring one or more conditions of the animal and/or its environment.
In some embodiments, the device may be a collar, harness, or other device placed on an animal
by a human (e.g., a pet's owner). The wearable device may include a plurality of components
including, e.g., one or more sensors and one or more components used to transmit data as
described herein. For example, in some embodiments, the wearable device may include a
plurality of contact, semi-contact, and non-contact sensors for obtaining information about the
animal, its location, and its environment.
[0040] Additional aspects of the present disclosure are directed to analysis of the different
sensors. For the purpose of this application, at least two locations at which the sensors are
analyzed are described herein. First, the wearable device may analyze the sensor data. Second, a
remote, data management system (referred to herein as "DMS") may process the information
from the sensors. In addition, the DMS may process the information from the sensors in
conjunction with additional information from sources other than the wearable device including
information from ancillary sensors proximate to the wearable device (including stand-alone
sensors and sensors attached to other devices, e.g., sensors attached to or part of smartphones).
Further, the DMS may receive information from owners who have entered specific information
based upon their observations of the animal. In addition, the DMS may receive information from
third-parties including RSS feeds regarding ambient weather conditions local to the wearable
device as well as data from third-party veterinarians or other service providers. It is appreciated
that, in some implementations, the sensors may be analyzed only at one location or analyzed at
three or more locations. The health-monitoring system may further use the owner observations
of the animal collected through, e.g., companion web/mobile based applications, telephone call
center activity/teleprompts, and the like. The owner observations may corroborate measured
events (e.g., events measured by wearable device 101 and/or one or more external sensors) to
assist in lowering the ongoing rate of false positives and false negatives. For example, in some
embodiments, the health-monitoring system may include a mobile weight/size mobile device
application which instructs the owner to wave a mobile camera integral to the mobile device
across an animal with a pre-identified marker in the field of view. Pre-processed data derived
14655241 1

                                                  7
from this action may then be uplifted to the DMS where conclusions can be derived as to the
animal's weight and size. Such data is then appended to the animal's record. Other important
owner recorded observations may include observable items such as caloric intake, blood in
urine, black stools, smelly breath, excessive thirst, white skin patches around the face, recording
the disposition of the animal, and the like. For instance, the caloric intake may be monitored by
an owner through an application running on a computer or smartphone in which the owner
identifies what food and how much is being consumed over what interval.
[0041] Further, while described herein as being located remote from the wearable device, the
DMS may be located on the owner's smartphone or located on the wearable device based on the
respective processing power of smartphone and wearable device. In these alternative
embodiments, the "DMS" is identified by its ability to receive content from sources other than
the sensors of the wearable device and process that additionally received content for forwarding
to the owner and/or veterinarian of the specific animal. These alternative embodiments of the
DMS are considered within the scope of the "data management system" unless specifically
excluded herein. For instance, if the wearable device is considered the DMS, the wearable
device would receive data from its own sensors as well as information from either sensors not
located on the wearable device and/or additional content provided by the owner, veterinarian, or
third party.
[0042] Further, the veterinarian may provide information to the DMS 301 including breed, age,
weight, existing medical conditions, suspected medical conditions, appointment compliance
and/or scheduling, current and past medications, and the like.
[0043] For the purposes of this disclosure, some sensors are described as a specific type of
sensor in contrast to a more generic description of other sensors. For instance, while the
specification describes the use of a Global Positioning System (GPS) unit providing location
information, other location identifying systems are considered equally useable including
GLONASS, Beidou, Galileo, and satellite-based navigation systems. Similarly, while the
specification describes the use of a GSM transceiver using GSM frequencies, other cellular
chipsets may be readily used in place of or in addition to the GSM transceiver. For example,
other types of transceivers may include UMTS, AMPS, GPRS, CDMA (and its variants),
DECT, iDEN, and other cellular technologies.
14655241 1

                                                 8
[0044] Also, for the purposes of this disclosure, various sensors and combination of sensors are
described as being co-located on the wearable device. However, in various situations, one or
more sensors may never be used in a specific version of the wearable device. For instance, GPS
related sensors may not be useful for a version of the wearable device that is only to be used
post-surgery in a recovery ward of an animal hospital. Because precise location information is
not needed when a veterinarian already knows the location of the animal (or even not useable
when in doors), a version of the wearable device with the GPS sensor disabled or not even
included may be used. Similarly, other sensors may be disabled in (or never included in) this
version of the wearable device where those sensors are not expected to be used. For instance, an
RF signal sensor (one that determines if a beacon signal from a base station is above a
predetermined threshold) may not be provided in a version of the wearable device where that
version of the wearable device is never expected to be used with a base station emitting a beacon
signal.
[0045] As used in this disclosure, the term "content" is intended to cover both raw data and
derived events. For instance, one example of the wearable device as described herein includes a
profile/operation mode in which raw data from various sensors are uploaded to a data
management on a continuous basis. Another example of the wearable device pre-processes
information from various sensors and derives event information from the combination of signals
(or lack thereof) from two or more sensors. These derived events are referred to as "device
derived events" as their derived in the wearable device. Similarly, the data management system
may also derive events (referred to herein as "DMS-derived events") from content from the
wearable device using only the raw data from the wearable device, the device-derived events, or
a combination of both. Further, the DMS may further take into account content from ancillary or
third-party sensors to corroborate and/or further enhance the DMS-derived events. For instance,
data from ancillary or third-party sensors may include audio files, image files, video files, RFID
information, and other types of information. To help correlate the data from ancillary or third
party sensors with data/device-derived events from the wearable device, the data from the
ancillary or third-party sensors may include timestamps. These timestamps permit the data
management system to use the data from the ancillary or third-party sensors as if that data was
part of the data/device-derived events from the wearable device. Further, the information
exchanged between the wearable device and the DMS and with third-parties and (as well as with
third-party devices) may be performed with industry-standard security, authentication and
encryption techniques.
14655241 1

                                                   9
[0046] Figure 1 is an overview of wearable device 101 and its components according to some
aspects of the disclosure. Wearable device 101 may include several internal components, such
as, e.g., ultra-wideband transceiver (UWB) and other sensors described herein at least in Figures
13-17. The sensors are represented in Figure 1 as classifiable into various sensor types shown as
Sensor Types A-F 110, 111, 112/113, 114, and 115. Although not shown separately in Figure 1,
the sensors are referred to at times herein as NI to Nm, with "im" being the total number of
sensors included in wearable device 101.
[0047] As shown in Figure 1, wearable device 101 includes a processor 100 (or multiple
processors as known in the art) with firmware 102, an operating system 103, and applications
104. The wearable device 101 may also include a storage 105 (e.g., a solid-state memory, Flash
memory, hard disk drive, etc.). The wearable device may further include one or more an RF
radio, a Wi-Fi radio, a Bluetooth radio, and/or a cellular radio transceiver 107. The wearable
device 101 may further include a local input/output connection (e.g., USB, optical, inductive,
Ethernet, Lightening, Fireire, status light or display etc.) 108, and a battery 109. For purposes
herein, local input/output connection 108 and the radio transceiver(s) 107 are generally
considered "outputs" though which information may be communicated to an owner or
veterinarian directly (through sound emitter/status light/display 604 of Figure 6), directly to a
smartphone (via cellular, Bluetooth, or Wi-Fi or other communication pathways) or though the
DMS.
[0048] With respect to sensor types A-F, sensor type A 110 refers to the types of sensors that
have a sensor input 116 and no other internal components (e.g., simplistic photodiode). Sensor
type B 111 refers to a sensor with a sensor input 117 and a processor 118 and storage 119
contained within the sensor type B. Here, sensor type B 111 may store data (at least temporarily)
from sensor input 117 and process the data to provide a more meaningful result to processor
100. For instance, sensor B 111 may be a UWB device for monitoring cardiac activity and the
like based on movement of a dielectric material (e.g., a heart muscle or other muscle). Processor
118 may control the operation of the UWB and interpret the results. In addition to monitoring
cardiopulmonary activity, the UWB componentry may be used for core temperature
determinations and as a communication transceiver for communication with a network as known
in the art for short distance, high bandwidth communications.
14655241 1

                                                    10
[0049] Further, as shown by dotted line 113, storage 119 may optionally be associated with
storage 105 to the point that processor 118 writes directly and/or reads directly from storage 105
(as being shared between processor 100 and processor 118). Raw data from sensor types C 112
and sensor types D 113 are processed by preprocessor 120 before the data being sent to
processor 100. Preprocessor 120 may be any type of known processor that
corrects/adjusts/enhances data. For instance, preprocessor 120 may be an analog to digital
converter, an analog or digital filter, a level correction circuit, and the like. Sensor type E 114
includes any sensors not specifically identified above that provide results from radar-based
signaling (including RF signal strength sensors, Wi-Fi IP address loggers, and the like). Finally,
sensor type F 115 includes battery sensors that provide data regarding the charge level and
temperature of the battery 109.
[0050] Processor 100 may be any known processor in the art that performs the general functions
of obtaining content from various sources in forwarding it through communication interfaces.
The processor 100 may also perform specific functions as described herein. The communication
interfaces may include one or more of microwave antennas, a RF antenna, a RFID antenna, a
cellular radio transceiver, and known hardware interfaces (for instance, USB). For example,
processor 100 may direct the transmission on demand of data collected from one or more
sensors due to an episodic event in an on-line mode, or may direct the transmission according to
a predetermined schedule or when eventually connected to the DMS where the data is collected
in an off-line mode.
[0051] With respect to the off-line mode of operation, processor 100 receives raw data from the
various sensor types A-F 110-115. Next, depending on the sensor and its current profile and/or
operating mode, processor 100 stores content relating to readings from the sensors. In a first
example, processor 100 merely stores all raw data from the sensors. In a second example,
processor 100 only stores indications that a sensor has provided a reading outside of a normal
range. The normal range may be set by the current profile and/or operating mode and may
include one or more thresholds for each sensor signal. For instance, an ambient temperature
sensor (further discussed below) may have upper and lower thresholds of 28' C and 15' C,
respectively. If a reading from the ambient temperature sensor passes one of these thresholds,
that event is stored by processor 100 and storage 105 identifying that the ambient temperature is
beyond the identified temperature range. In this example, either a binary indication that the
temperature range has been exceeded or the actual temperature reading may be stored in storage
14655241  1

                                                   11
105. Further, to assist with subsequent analyses by the wearable device 101 or analyses
performed by the DMS or third parties, processor 100 may also timestamp the indication that the
temperature reading has left the identified temperature range. In a third example, processor 100
may store in storage 105 both the raw data from the sensor leaving and identified range as well
as the indication that the identified range has been exceeded. For instance, the indication may be
one or more flags stored in storage 105 associated with the sensor reading, the timestamp, and/or
that the range has been exceeded.
[0052] In a further example, processor 100 may operate in a low-power mode when, for
example, sensor F (the battery sensors 115) identify that the battery is too hot and/or the battery
is running low on available power. In this example, sensors that require significant power may
be disabled or activated less frequently until the power level has been restored or battery
recharged.
[0053] Further, processor 100 may accept new software updates and change sensor thresholds,
settings, etc., per instructions received from the data management system DMS. The DMS is
described below with reference to Figure 3. In addition, the owner may modify the thresholds to
minimize when he is alerted to various sensor readings from the wearable device. This threshold
modification may be permitted or restricted based on the sensor reading to be modified, as
minimizing the sensitivity (e.g. broadening the definition of what constitutes a "normal" sensor
reading) may endanger the animal. For example, the user may not be permitted to set the upper
"normal" threshold on an ambient temperature sensor at a temperature above 400 C, as
prolonged exposure to such a high ambient temperature may present serious risk of harm,
including heat stroke and/or death, to the animal.
[0054] In some embodiments, wearable device 101 may be associated with a base station (not
shown). The base station may be capable of charging the battery 115 of the wearable device
101. Further, the base station may emit a steady beacon signal to wearable device 101 (but
optionally does not receive communications back from the wearable device 101). In some
embodiments, the base station may be paired to a plurality of wearable devices 101 (e.g., each
worn by each one of a common pet owner's animals). In such embodiments, as known in the art
with pairing of wireless devices, each wearable device 101 may be paired to the base station at
the time of activation through a unique signal signature. Additionally, in some embodiments,
each wearable device 101 may be paired to multiple base stations. One of the benefits of using
14655241  1

                                                    12
multiple base stations is that, by comparing the relative strengths of signals from the different
they stations, the wearable device 101 may be able to generally identify its location relative to
the base stations (e.g., via triangulation).
[0055] In some embodiments, wearable device 101 may include a GPS receiver 106 as one
example of a sensor. The GPS receiver 106 may turn on once a beacon or other RF signal drops
below a threshold level, in response to a sensed episodic event, on demand, or according to a
predetermined time schedule. Accordingly, the GPS receiver 106 may not be "always on" (and
thus may not, e.g., consume power when GPS readings will not be helpful). By way of an
example, if the signal strength of a beacon from base station is high, then the wearable device
101 (and accordingly an animal wearing wearable device 101) may be assumed to be located
near the base station and thus the GPS coordinates of the animal may not be beneficial to, e.g.,
the animal's owner. Accordingly, the GPS receiver 106 may remain in an "off' state (e.g.,
powered down state) until, e.g., processor 100 instructs GPS receiver 106 to turn "on" (e.g.,
when the signal strength from the base station becomes weak or nonexistent).
[0056] The GPS receiver 106 may provide any useful information regarding the status of an
animal wearing wearable device 101 including location coordinates of the animal, elevation of
the animal, specific satellite acquisition status, and the orientation of satellites. Some or all of
this information may be used in sensor logic calculations and reduce GPS thrashing (continuous
attempts to acquire signals and thereby draining the battery).
[0057] The processor 100 may use location information from the GPS receiver 106 to identify a
geo-zone (also refer to as a geo-fence) and determine when the wearable device 101 has left that
identified area. For example, when an animal wearing the wearable device 101 is playing off
leash in a park, the animal's owner (using, e.g., a personal mobile device), the DMS, or other
may prompt the GPS receiver 106 to create an instant geo-zone around the location of the
animal wearing wearable device 101. Accordingly, if the pet wanders too far (e.g., outside of
that geo-zone), the owner (via, e.g., a signal sent from cellular radio transceiver 107 to a
personal mobile device), the DMS, or other may be notified that the pet has traveled outside of
the geo-zone.
[0058] In embodiments where wearable device 101 is associated with a base station, processor
100 may determine when, e.g., an RF beacon signal, Wi-Fi signal, Bluetooth signal, or other RF
14655241 1

                                                    13
technology signal emitted from the base station drops below a threshold level and, in response,
may obtain the location of the device from a GPS receiver 106 and record and/or transmit the
location of the wearable device 101 via a cellular radio transceiver 107, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or
other technology to a pet owner or veterinarian. Thus, according to one aspect of the disclosure,
a location of an animal wearing the wearable device 101 may be easily determined when the
animal strays too far from the stationary base station. For non-cellular based radios, if the signal
strength falls below a certain threshold or is non-existent, processor 100 may change the
transmitting profile of the different modems to make them easier to either locate or connect to
various available networks or by a mobile device based application being used as directional
finder.
[0059] In embodiments which include a base station, the health-monitoring system may further
interpret readings coming from base station as described herein. For example, signal strength of
a beacon coming from the base station and received at wearable device 101 may be compared to
a set of thresholds that have been set by the user or defaults provided/derived by the DMS
during setup based on high, medium, and low settings. In some embodiments, during activation
of the device and after the owner has set up the base station inside their premises, the user may
use a companion application (e.g., smartphone application) and walk around her property
holding the wearable device and geo-tag important features of her enclosure/yard/field, etc. At
each location the GPS coordinates and beacon signal may be logged and uploaded to the DMS
to assist in deriving the optimal safe proximity and geo-zones. The owner may also acquire
several other base stations that can be placed in other locations that the animal frequents (e.g.
weekend properties, pet sitter, etc.) or placed in several locations of a large and evenly shaped
property to create proximity zones of unique shapes.
[0060] The cellular radio transceiver 107 may be used as one means of transmitting and
receiving data at the wearable device 101. In some embodiments, the cellular radio transceiver
107 may provide presence information on a cellular network and/or signal strength readings to
assist in the wearable device's 101 logic calculations to prevent thrashing (continuous attempts
to acquire signals). Further, the cellular radio transceiver 107 may provide real-time clock
adjustments, and may be used for cellular triangulation by the DMS when GPS signals are not
available or are at or below a usable threshold.
14655241 1

                                                   14
[0061] Figure 2 shows an illustrative example of various inputs usable by the wearable device
101. Figure 2 shows RF signal 201, DMS inputs & triggers 202, content from mobile
companion apps/sensors 203, GPS-related information 204, device accessory content 205, Wi
Fi/Bluetooth/ANT-related information 206, cellular information 207, spectrum analyses 208,
sound levels or actual recordings of sound 209, acceleration 210, core temperature 211, RFID
(relating to internal/external RFID-radios) 212, battery temperature/battery strength 213,
cardiopulmonary 214, ambient humidity 215, and ambient temperature 216.
[0062] The RF signal 201 may receive signals including adjustable settings and options for, e.g.,
geo-tagging the boundaries of a pet owner's property, etc. as described above with respect to the
beacon signal. In addition or instead of an RF antenna, wearable device 101 may include Wi-Fi,
Bluetooth, and/or other RF technologies 206. The Wi-Fi/Bluetooth/ANT-related component 107
is intended to cover local, radio-based communication systems from body-worn to body-wide
area networks.
[0063] Each may be used in conjunction with a GPS receiver 106 and/or cellular radio
transceiver 107 or as a replacement to provide two-way data transmission through paired access
points as well as provide presence, proximity, and retrieve time of day information identifying
the general location of the wearable device 101.
[0064] Wearable device 101 may further accelerometer providing the acceleration signal 210.
The accelerometer may be used to report levels of specific activities of an animal. For example,
readings from the accelerometer may be interpreted as the animal being currently engaged in
walking, running, sleeping, drinking, barking, scratching, shaking, etc. The accelerometer may
also be used to report the possibility of a high impact event as well as corroborate and/or
augment other sensor readings. In some embodiments, the accelerometer may be used to control
other sensors (e.g., turn on, turn off, leave a breadcrumb, ignore a reading, etc.). Further, the
accelerometer may be used to determine which of a plurality of animals is actually wearing the
wearable device 101. For example, if a pet owner uses a wearable device 101 interchangeably
among more than one of her pets, a set of specific attributes pertaining to one of the animals
may be created and stored in storage 105 for each pet. Some of the stored attributes may be
accelerometer data, such as a particular animal's gait, and other attributes such as bark sound
signatures. These stored attributes may then be used to determine which pet is wearing a
wearable device 101 by comparing currently sensed attributes to stored attributes.
14655241 1

                                                    15
[0065] Another sensor usable with the wearable device 101 may be a light meter. The light
meter may provide the spectrum analyses 208 input of Figure 2. In a simplistic example, the
light meter may be tied solely to presence or absence of a threshold of visible light. In a more
sophisticated example, the light meter may be frequency-specific in its readings such that it can
separately detect levels of infrared light, visible light, and ultraviolet light. Both of these
examples of light meters of varying sophistication are known in the art. In this environment, the
processor 100 may use signals from the light meter (or light meters) to determine if the wearable
device 101 is located inside or outside. For instance, while a visible light level of a given
intensity may indicate that the wearable device 101 is located under a bright light source (e.g., in
a sunny area), processor 100 may compare the current infrared and/or ultraviolet light levels
against the visible light levels. Accordingly, if the visible light level is high and the infrared
and/or ultraviolet light levels are also high, then processor 100 determines that there is a
likelihood that wearable device 101 may be located outside in the sun. Alternatively, if the
visible light level is high while the infrared and/or ultraviolet light levels are low, then processor
100 determines that there is a likelihood that wearable device 101 may be located indoors (albeit
in a sunny spot).
[0066] Further, the light meter may also be used to interpret light levels in determining a current
state of an animal to confirm or corroborate a current state of an animal. For example, in some
embodiments extremely bright light incidences may be indicative of the animal wearing
wearable device 101 being caught in a car's headlights, or being around gunfire, explosions, etc.
as based on the sudden change in received light levels 208. Identification of being caught in a
car's headlights may be based on a sudden spike in ambient light at night while the
accelerometer indicates minimal movement before and after the spike in visible light. Further, a
location determination (for instance, from a GPS receiver) may be used in place of or in addition
to the accelerometer signal as augmenting the determination of whether the animal has been
illuminated by oncoming headlights. Similar spikes in audio signals occurring within a short
time of visible light spikes may be interpreted as being around the gunfire, explosions, etc.
[0067] In some embodiments, other sensors which may contribute to one or more spectral
analyses, including analysis of non-light spectra, may be deployed on the wearable device 101.
More advanced uses of spectrum analysis may include the ability to detect trace chemical
signatures present in the animal's environment, emanating from their skin/fur, orifices, and/or
present in their breath. For example, readings could indicate dangerous environmental
14655241 1

                                                   16
conditions (e.g. high readings of chorine), skin related issues (e.g. yeast), and internal related
conditions (e.g. ketones in the animal's breath that may be exhibited before other symptoms are
evident). Further, the spectrum analysis sensor(s) may also be sniffing for chemical signatures.
Combining the detection of sulfur with light and sound spikes helps corroborate the
determination that the animal has recently been located near gunshots or other explosions.
[0068] An ambient temperature sensor providing the ambient temperature 216 may also be
provided as another example of a sensor. The ambient temperature sensor may be used to
determine a location of an animal wearing wearable device 101 (e.g., indoor versus outdoor). In
some embodiments, the processor 100 tracks ambient temperature 216 over time and determines
a current rate of change. If that current rate of change is greater than a predetermined rate as
existing for a period of time, processor 100 identifies the rate of change may be a prediction that
the animal wearing the wearable device 101 will be overheating or freezing in the near future.
Further, in some embodiments an ambient temperature sensor may be used to corroborate or
control other sensors.
[0069] The wearable device 101 may also include a humidity sensor providing the ambient
humidity input 215. In some embodiments, the humidity sensor may be used to adjust sensed
temperatures to wet bulb settings. These wet bulb settings may be important in calculating
animal heat loss/gain and may be used in roughly identifying a location of the animal (e.g.,
inside or outside). Further, the excessive humidity or dryness identified as signal 215 from the
humidity sensor may be combined with a temperature reading to determine the heat index or
wind chill.
[0070] Further, a microphone or peak noise detector sensor may provide sound input 209. The
microphone/peak noise sensor may be used to, e.g., measure specific sound events (barking,
etc.) and may be used to corroborate other sensor readings. For example, in embodiments where
a light meter indicates, e.g., an animal wearing wearable device 101 may be caught in a
vehicle's headlights; a microphone sensing a load noise may be interpreted as, e.g., an impact
event (getting hit by the vehicle). A specific method of determining an impact event is described
herein.
[0071] Another example of a sensor may be an internal battery strength and/or battery
temperature sensor 213 providing information regarding the strength and/or temperature of the
14655241 1

                                                   17
battery. The internal battery strength and/or temperature sensor may be used to either modulate
certain other sensing activities and/or as an input source to other sensing activities. For example,
in response to sensing the internal battery is running low, GPS acquisition duty cycles and/or
cellular transmissions may be reduced to conserve power to extend the operation of the wearable
device 101.
[0072] A core temperature sensor providing core temperature 211 may be provided as another
example of sensor. The core temperature sensor may be used to non-invasively measure the core
temperature of an animal, and thus provide data relating both to a real-time core temperature of
an animal and an animal's change in core temperature over time.
[0073] The wearable device may also include one or more antennas as tied to one or more of the
internal radios/sensors. One of the internal components attached to the antennas may be an
ultrawide-band UWB device. As known in the art, UWB device is used to monitor various
conditions (e.g., used in fetal monitoring, cardiopulmonary monitoring, and the like).
[0074] Here, the UWB device may be used to monitor a variety of different conditions. For
example, in some embodiments, the UWB device may be used to transmit and receive UWB
signals to non-invasively monitor operations of an animal's heart. Signals from that monitoring
operation are then processed by processor 100 to determine if an episodic event has occurred
(e.g., an abnormally high heart rate), if a more complex event has occurred (e.g., heat exhaustion
after excessive running) and if the cardiopulmonary system of the animal is trending toward an
undesirable condition (e.g., an increasing average heart rate). Here, in addition to an average
heart rate, a statistical deviation may also be provided. In this regard, statistical deviations may
accompany other average rates as forwarded to veterinarians and possibly owners.
[0075] Specifically, the UWB device may be used to measure stroke volume and a relative
change in blood pressure of an animal wearing wearable device 101. For purposes herein, stroke
volume readings from the UWB are useful in addition to vital sign readings. In other
embodiments, the UWB device may be used to determine if the wearable device is actually on
the animal. In some embodiments, a profile (e.g., stored characteristics) of an animal may be
available for more than one animal which wears the wearable device 101. In such embodiments,
the UWB device may be used to determine to which animal the wearable device 101 is currently
attached. For example, readings at the UWB device may be compared to stored
14655241 1

                                                   18
cardiopulmonary profiles to determine which of a plurality of animals is currently wearing the
wearable device 101. Further, the UWB device may be used to interpret changes in the neck
tissue as indicative of an animal eating, drinking, and/or vomiting. Further, the UWB device
may be used to interpret signals in the abdomen area to investigate the possibility of
obstructions in the digestive track.
[0076] Any other desirable sensor may be provided as a component of wearable device 101 in
order to measure one or more attribute of an animal and/or its environment. Those skilled in the
art, given the benefit of this disclosure, will recognize numerous other sensors which may be
incorporated into wearable device 101 without departing from the scope of this disclosure.
Further, the components and/or sensors contained within wearable device 101 may share some
common circuitry such as power supply, power conditioners, low pass filters, antennas, etc., as
well as share sensing data with each other to derive more meaning from combined data sources.
[0077] According to some aspects of the disclosure, the wearable device 101 (and associated
base station(s), if any) and the DMS may form part of a health-monitoring system used to collect
data about and/or monitor specific health attributes of one or more animals. Further, in some
embodiments, one of more of sensors may have the capability of activating, deactivating,
controlling, rejecting, accepting, or throttling another sensor's activities as described herein. In
addition, the health-monitoring system may include both passive and active sensors and multiple
antennas that generate and receive a wide variety of electromechanical energy whereas the
normal output of one or more components may enhance the capability of another component in
a derived fashion.
[0078] The health-monitoring system according to some aspects of the disclosure may further
include external sensors (e.g., sensors external to the wearable device 101) which interact with
or otherwise supplement the sensors of the wearable device 101. In some embodiments, these
external sensors may include detachable analog/digital items such as a stethoscope, ultrasound
sensor, infrared temperature sensor, pulse oximeter, blood pressure monitoring tool, glucose
meter, blood analyzer, breath analyzer, urine analyzer, brain scanner (all which may include
additional application software and/or be controlled by the device software), and
filters/attachments to enhance/collaborate the existing set of sensors and readings. The
individual operations of these separable sensors are known in the art. Here, wearable device 101
provides a platform to which these additional sensors may be connected and their data or
14655241 1

                                                   19
analyzed content being stored in storage 105 for relaying to an owner or DMS (or even third
parties) as described herein.
[0079] In some embodiments, these external sensors may be integrally provided with or
associated with other well-known devices. For example, the health-monitoring system may
collect data from a camera (with or without lens/filter attachments), microphone, speaker, GPS,
and other items that may be plugged into or utilized by the wearable device 101 and/or the
health-monitoring system. In some embodiments, these sensors may be part of a personal
mobile device (e.g., a smartphone or the like). Each of these external sensors and/or mobile
browser applications/installed applications may act independently, in conjunction with the
wearable device 101, may be triggered by the wearable device 101, or may be triggered by the
DMS on a demand, episodic, or a scheduled basis to provide additional and/or collaborative
sensing information that will provide important episodic, derived, or trending information to
support the animals safety, wellbeing and health. In addition, all of the above described
activities may be triggered by a mobile device and a companion applications and
attachments/accessories to provide time stamped correlation of sensor data as described herein.
[0080] Further examples of external sensors used in conjunction with the described health
monitoring system may include RFID proximity sensors that communicate with RFID proximity
tags and provide RFID content 212. For example, RFID proximity tags may be placed at an
animal's bed, at its food bowl, at its water bowl, outside a door frame, outside a gate post, near
garbage cans, etc. Thus, when an animal wearing a wearable device 101 is near any of the above
items, the wearable device (receiving a signal via the RFID sensor) may interpret that the animal
is sleeping, eating, drinking, outside, out of the yard, getting into garbage, etc.
[0081] The health-monitoring system may further use owner observations of an animal collected
through, e.g., companion web/mobile based applications, telephone call center
activity/teleprompts, and the like. The owner observations may corroborate measured events
(e.g., events measured by wearable device 101 and/or one or more external sensors) to assist in
lowering the ongoing rate of false positives and false negatives. For example, in some
embodiments, the health-monitoring system may include a mobile weight/size mobile device
application which instructs the owner to wave a mobile camera integral to the mobile device
across an animal with a pre-identified marker in the field of view. Pre-processed data derived
from this action may then be uploaded to the DMS where conclusions can be derived as to the
14655241 1

                                                  20
animal's weight and size. Such data is then appended to the animal's record. Other important
owner recorded observations may include observable items such as caloric intake, blood in
urine, black stools, smelly breath, excessive thirst, white skin patches around the face, recording
the disposition of the animal, and the like. For instance, the caloric intake may be monitored by
an owner through an application running on a computer or smartphone in which the owner
identifies what food and how much is being consumed over what interval.
[0082] Further, the health-monitoring system may include sensors placed internally within an
animal (for instance, invasive but unobtrusive sensors). For example, microchips or the like
embedded within an animal may provide data relating to, e.g., blood oximetry, glucose
monitoring, ECG, EEG, etc.
[0083] Figure 3 shows an example of a data management system 301 receiving inputs from a
variety of sources. Those inputs may be specific to an individual animal or generally relate to
related animals (related by one or more characteristics including breed, age, health condition,
and the like). Figure 3 shows data management system 301 receiving RSS feeds 302, Internet
search content 303, social form content 304, content from chats with veterinarians, symptom
lookups and the like 305, cellular network-related information 306, Wi-Fi/Bluetooth/ANT
related information 307, wearable device 101-based sensors and accessories 308, third-party
electronic services 309, veterinarian observations 310, content from companion mobile
apps/sensors 311, owner observations 312, and third-party home tele-health sensors 313.
[0084] DMS 301 is a data receiving and processing system that receives data and/or wearable
device-derived events from the wearable device 101 and analyzes that content directly, or in
conjunction with older data or past analyses of older data from the wearable device, or in
conjunction with data from other sources, or any combination thereof. The DMS 301 includes
one or more processors, storage, operation software, input/output pathways, and the like as
similar to that of the processor 100 and storage 105 of wearable device 101 shown in Figure 1.
Further, the DMS may be a cloud-based computing platform in which communications via the
Internet are received in the DMS at a server or other hardware device and processed in
accordance with computer-executable instructions and workflows. In this example, the DMS
may have industry standard Internet connections, routers, servers, that connect DMS 301 to the
various content sources 302-313. Alerts as sent to an owner compared to a veterinarian may be
14655241 1

                                                  21
different. Further, even if the sensors are operating as tied to a specific profile, the DMS may
continue to separate and forward alerts based on predefined settings at the DMS.
[0085] In some embodiments of the disclosure, the health-monitoring system may further
collect data using external rich site summary (RSS) feeds 302. For example, the system may
receive data about the weather, environment, daily pet health tips, published research data, etc.,
via the RSS feed 302. According to some aspects, this received data may be used to corroborate,
supplement, and enhance data collected from the wearable device 101, other external sources,
and the like as discussed herein.
[0086] Some embodiments of the health-monitoring system may further receive data from, e.g.,
non-invasive home telematics solutions 313. For example, the system may receive data from
smart mats, smart motion/IF detectors, and other devices prevalent in the marketplace. Pets and
animals inside a home may thus trigger these devices and thus record sensor artifacts such as
presence, weight, physiological signs, and vital signs. These recordings (which may normally be
discarded by the human home monitoring systems) may provide valuable data
collection/corroboration points for the system, for example in the DMS (as described herein).
Several techniques may be employed to upload this data to the DMS (e.g. companion mobile
device application, user-entered readings, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, other RF technologies, etc.).
[0087] When used as part of a health-monitoring system in Figure 2 and as described herein, the
wearable device 101 may be the prime source of sensor collected data (through, e.g., sensors and
others described above). All sensors and their inputs may be available to be intelligently
combined through data fusion to create meaningful standalone alerts and as an input into the
DMS to develop and extract even more meaning from the data.
[0088] In some embodiments, the health-monitoring system as described herein may include a
DMS 301 remote to the wearable sensor 101 as schematically depicted in Figure 3. In some
embodiments, DMS 301 may receive information from wearable device 101 and/or other
sensors. Further, DMS 301 may transmit information to, e.g., a pet owner (via, e.g., a computer,
smartphone, tablet, land line, display of wearable device 101, status light/display/sound
indicator 604 of Figures 6A and 6B, etc.) and/or a veterinarian (via, e.g., a web-based
dashboard, facsimile, land line, mobile alerts, etc.). In some embodiments, DMS 301 may
transmit data according to predefined criteria. For example, according to some aspects, DMS
14655241 1

                                                    22
301 may transmit information periodically on a scheduled basis. In other embodiments, DMS
301 may transmit information when that information exceeds a threshold value. In still other
embodiments, DMS 301 may transmit data on-demand (e.g., requested by a pet owner,
veterinarian, or the like).
[0089] In some embodiments, DMS 301 may be the data repository of all inputs regardless of
the source to derive meaningful/actionable information related to the animal's safety, wellness,
and health for owners and veterinarians. In some situations, information specific to the animal
wearing the wearable device 101 (e.g., the third-party information service data 309 and the
third-party veterinary chat service data 311) may be forwarded from the DMS 301 to the third
party prior to receiving data (307, 311) from the third parties to assist with the third-parties'
analysis. The DMS may analyze received data and determine the meaning of the data as DMS
derived events. Next, based on those events, the DMS may obtain recommendations on file from
a storage tied to those derived events, compile those recommendations, and provide the
compiled recommendations to the owner and/or veterinarian as actionable information. For
instance, if the meaningful information is that the animal has gained 5 lbs. in the past week and
has exhibited a lower than normal activity rate, the DMS 301 may look up recommendations on
file from a storage tied to weight gain and the amount of weight gain and the identified
recommendation or recommendations. Next, the results are compiled and forwarded to the
owner/veterinarian as actionable information.
[0090] In general, the following lists typical inferences that may be reported to owners: the
animal is outside of designated safe zones; there is a potential situation where the animal may
be overheating or freezing; the animal may have been in an accident (high impact event of
various levels of severity); the animal's activity level has been decreasing even after applied
filters for owner and pet lifestyle profiles; the animal is limping (based on a change in gait); the
animal appears to be in potentially dangerous environment based on extreme noise and light
indicators; the animal is very listless during sleep (as an indication of pain, digestive issues,
respiration issues, or past physiological trauma); the animal's heart rate variability is abnormal;
the animal's respiration rate and quality is abnormal; the animal appears to be in distress/pain
(yelps when there is large gross movement); and the wearable device is not on the animal that it
was initially assigned to by means of examining its gate profile versus the one on file or other
vital sign indicators that are part of their electronic profile.
14655241 1

                                                   23
[0091] Typical suggested actions may include to: increase the owner's personal observations of
the animal to confirm or dismiss specific developing items of concern; increase/decrease
thresholds for items in the animal's sensor profile so they more closely align with the owner's
and the specific pet's daily life patterns, age, breed, size, and know medical conditions;
increase/decrease the animal's activity; monitor the animal's diet (record caloric intake); remove
the animal from a potential developing overheating/freezing situation; monitor the animal for
specific coughing sounds; refer the owner to specific related articles/links/videos etc.; consult an
optional online "ask-a-vet" services; and to see their veterinarian as soon as possible based on a
life-threatening situation.
[0092] The following are illustrative examples of triggers that result in reporting issues to the
owner: an episodic issue based on a sensor or a group of sensors confirming an event
comparing readings to preset thresholds; a time-based analysis (a.k.a a longitudinally-based) at
the wearable device 101 or the DMS 301 based on trending positive or negative readings for a
particular suspected condition; on the demand of the owner or the veterinarian; periodically to
provide a snapshot of the condition of the animal based on the owner or veterinarian's safety,
wellness and health goals.
[0093] The veterinarian may receive a fewer number of inferences/suggestions and more
empirical data based on wellness issues and vital signs that could lead to serious health issues,
the monitoring of specific known health conditions, and the monitoring of the effectiveness of
prescribed therapies. The veterinarian may receive vital signs and other physiological
information that suggests the animal is trending positively or negatively. Items that may act as
triggers for the veterinarian to be sent information include an episodic vital sign(s) reading or
physiological reading has passed its threshold or a derived vital sign(s) or physiological sign or
signs as trended over time have passed thresholds set by the veterinarian.
[0094] Also, the veterinarian may be interested in the following current possible vital,
environmental, or physiological signs: core temperature; ambient temperature & humidity; and
core temperature. The veterinarian may be interested in the following pulmonary information:
detected lung motion & measured respiratory rate and rhythm; measured respiration and
exhalation times (ti/te); detected asymmetrical respiration (inflammation, obstructions,
asphyxiation); measured chest compression rate, depth, and chest recoil; and measured and
ongoing monitoring of chronic bronchitis. The veterinarian may be interested in the following
14655241 1

                                                  24
cardiac information: detected cardiac motion & measured cardiac rate and rhythm; measured
changes in cardiac stroke volume and cardiac output; a comparison of blood pressure to a
threshold; signs of developing congestive heart failure; signs of bradycardia and tachycardia;
signs of hemo/pneumothorax. Further, the veterinarian may be interested in the following other
information: signs of a seizure; uterine contraction rate and intensity; identification of possible
sleep problems such as sleep apnea; signs of a foreign body in the animal; long-term sensor
data; average and statistical deviation of cardiac activity, respiration activity, and core
temperature; activity level; estimated weight; estimated hydration levels; and average
daytime/nighttime ambient temperatures. The following are sample inferences that may be
derived by the DMS 301 and identified to the owner or veterinarian for diagnosis: heartworm;
vomiting & diarrhea; obesity; infectious diseases; kennel cough & other developing respiratory
conditions; lower urinary tract infection; dental disease; skin allergies; damaged bones & soft
tissue; cancer (for instance, by ketone level changes in the animal's breath); developing heart
conditions; distress/pain; and cognitive dysfunction. The following are sample
symptoms/inferences made from a combination of sensor data and veterinarian-supplied data:
impact of specific prescribed therapies; recovery status of an animal who has just undergone
surgery; and trending of vital signs against a base line determined by the veterinarian.
[0095] In such capacities, the DMS 301 may be receiving raw data, pre-processed data at the
wearable device 101 level. For example, the accelerometer {x,y,z} g values may be averaged
over a fixed window (for instance, a one second window), a deviation of magnitude computed,
and a high, medium, or low activity designation may be assigned based on the activity of the
animal. Sound files from a separate device, RSS feeds, and other unlike data types need to be
catalogued, time stamped, sorted and prepared for analysis. Because the DMS receives these
divergent types of data, the DMS 301 may perform these correlations. For instance, the DMS
301 may receive high ambient temperature readings from the wearable device 101 and compare
it against expected local temperatures (obtained by RSS feed 302 or Internet search 303) for the
current or last identified location of the wearable device 101. If the ambient temperature is high
(for instance, over 45 C) while the predicted high temperature for the location is only 20 C),
then the DMS 301 may derive that the animal is locked inside a car with its windows shut.
Based on this derived event, the DMS may attempt to alert the owner as alert 314. The alert 314
may be in the form of email, SMS or other text messaging systems, social messaging systems
(like Twitter and Facebook, etc.) or by calling the owner directly. It is appreciated that the
frequency and thresholds for alerts may be fixed or may be configurable by the user.
14655241 1

                                                    25
[0096] DMS 301 may also include information about past events, current events, or predictions
of possible future events. DMS 301 may also act as the communications hub between the
wearable device 101 and third party services, the vet, and/or a pet owner through various
communications channels and devices. For example, in some embodiments a pet owner may use
her personal mobile device as an input device to record her own observations through free form
text or drop down menus (effectively becoming one sensor of the sensory platform) and thus
DMS 301 receives these inputs from the owner via the personal mobile device. Each data
element stored in the DMS 301 may be meta-tagged so that each stands alone without having to
go back to, e.g., an owner/pet profile. Such meta-tags may include a time stamp, geographical
data, breed, age, etc., that may facilitate large scale anonymous data analysis.
[0097] Figure 4 illustrates a collar 402 including wearable device 101 according to one aspect of
the disclosure. As depicted in Figure 4, collar 402 may include wearable device 101 such that
the wearable device 101 is positioned near the neck of animal 401. Accordingly, in such an
embodiment, sensors receive data near the neck of animal 401 at sensing location 402. Further,
wearable device 101 receives and transmits data at transceiving location 404.
[0098] Figure 5 illustrates a cross-sectional view of animal's neck wearing collar 402 including
wearable device 101. As depicted, collar 402 may include a clasp 505 that, when clasped,
positions wearable device 101 adjacent to fur 501 on the lower side of animal's neck. Figure 5
depicts approximate locations of the structures within the animal's neck. Specifically, Figure 5
shows carotid arteries 503, jugular veins 504, esophagus 509, trachea 511, and spinal column
510 in relation to the wearable device 101. In such a configuration, antennas of the
cardiopulmonary (e.g., UWB device) and other inward-looking components (e.g., ECG and
ultrasound probes) contained in wearable device 101 are placed on the inside of collar 402 while
processor 100, other sensors, and other components (e.g., RF antennas 109, RFID antennas 111,
etc.) are located on the other side of collar 402 (for instance, at location 507). Further, the
outward looking antennas may be located at any of locations A-I to help minimize interference
with the inward-looking antennas. Alternatively, sensors located at locations A-I may have
improved readings by separating them from interference with contact with the animal. For
instance, if the ambient temperature sensor was placed at location A, there is a potential for
errant readings when the animal is laying on its chest and wearable device 101 is resting on the
animal's paw. Locating the ambient temperature sensor at an alternative location, for instance,
D-I, may improve the reading from the sensor as it would be spaced from the animal's paw when
14655241 1

                                                   26
the animal is laying in this position. Further, in an alternative example, various sensors may be
replicated around the collar 402 and their readings averaged or the highest and lowest readings
dropped to reduce the influence of aberrant readings.
[0099] As shown in Figure 5, wearable device 101 is able to receive and transmit information
on the outside of collar 402, while keeping inward-looking antennas near animal's skin on the
inside of collar 402 such that accurate readings from, e.g., the animal's carotid arteries 503
and/or esophagus 509 may be obtained. Alternatively, readings may be obtained from jugular
veins 504 instead of or in conjunction with carotid arteries 503. Other tissue movement may also
be of interest including muscle movement surrounding the trachea (as the trachea's cartilage
may not be reflective of some dielectric signals and not detectable directly).
[0100] The configuration of wearable device 101 according to some embodiments of this
disclosure may be more readily understood with reference to Figures 6A and 6B. Figure 6A
illustrates a top view and Figure 6B illustrates a side view of an embodiment of wearable device
101. In the embodiment of Figures 6A and 6B, wearable device 101 may include two portions:
an inside portion 601 and an outside portion 603. Inside portion 601 may include the inward
looking antennas such as the UWB antennas, microwave antennas, or ultrasound antennas. For
instance, the antennas may be located at locations 605 and 606. Outside portion 603 may include
other components such as processor 100 and the other components of Figure 1 including
outward-looking antennas. In one example, the inward-looking antennas of portion 601 may be
shielded from the outward-looking antennas of portion 603 by a metal or metallized layer or
other known antenna isolation material to minimize interference between the different sets of
antennas. Further, status information including on/off status may be provided to the owner via
status light 604. Status light 604 may be a simple LED or may include a display screen and
touch interface configured to display content to an owner as opposed to (or in addition to)
sending the information to the DMS to then be forwarded to the owner's smartphone. In
addition, 604 may be a sound generator that responds to setting changes.
[0101] When wearable device 101 is placed on an animal, such as shown in Figure 5, the
inward-looking antennas will be located near the animal 401 (e.g., inside of collar 402) and thus
provide accurate sensing, while other components, including some components used to transmit
and receive data, may be placed away from animal 401 (e.g., outside of collar 402) such that
14655241 1

                                                  27
transceiving capabilities of the outward-looking antennas are not degraded by the operation of
the other antennas.
[0102] Further, metal or metallized probes 610 and 611 may be used to establish probe-to-skin
contact for sensors that may be improved with direct skin contact. These types of sensors may
include skin temperature sensors, heart rate sensors, and ECG sensors. With respect to
temperature sensors, these probes may be attached to one or more heat-sensing components (or
may include those heat-sensing components. The heat sensing components may include
thermistors, thermocouples, and the like and combinations thereof.
[0103] In other embodiments, wearable device 101 may not be worn around a neck of an animal
401, but rather may be worn at any suitable location for receiving information by the sensors.
For example, and as illustrated in Figure 7, wearable device may be provided as part of a
harness 701 worn around animal chest. In such an embodiment, sensing location 703 and
transceiving location 704 will be near animal's chest rather than near animal's neck (as depicted
in Figure 4). Regardless of the particular location of wearable device 101 (at the neck location or
chest location, batteries 115 and other detachable components may be removable and
replaceable by a pet owner 705.
[0104] Figures 8-12 and 22 relate to flowcharts showing processing of the wearable device 101
and/or DMS 301. These flowcharts are used to explain various aspects of analyzing signals from
one or more sensors. It is appreciated that other types of analyses based on the sensor
information are possible in place of threshold comparison. Other known techniques include
Bayesian inference analysis, neural networks, regression analysis, and the like and their use to
analyze the signal inputs are encompassed within the scope of this disclosure.
[0105] Turning now to Figure 8, a flowchart representing basic sensor processing (e.g.,
processing of one or more internal sensors, external sensors, internal sensors, and/or other
sensors) is depicted. A sensor processed as shown in Figure 8 may be one that is either on all of
the time, interrupt driven, or triggered on demand. At step 801, sensor data is received from
sensor n. Again, this sensor data may be continuously received (e.g., always on), may be
triggered by another sensor's reading (e.g., interrupt driven), or may be received in response to a
pet owner, veterinarian, or the like requesting sensor data (e.g. on demand). At step 803, the
received sensor data is compared to a threshold value. At step 803, the relationship of the
14655241 1

                                                  28
compared data to the threshold value may be such that nothing of interest is happening. In such
a situation, the data may be ignored as indicated by step 809, and the method will return step
801 to receive additional data. However, if the compared data exceeds the threshold, this
occurrence is written to storage in step 805. Optionally or in addition to step 805, an alert may
be provided to a pet owner or sent to the DMS as shown in step 807. The alert may be local
(e.g., an audible alarm on the wearable device 101) and/or may be remote (e.g., on a pet owner's
personal mobile device, within a veterinary dashboard, etc.). In a further modification, the fact
that the signal from sensor n did not exceed the threshold may also be stored as shown in broken
lines from the NO output of determination step 803 to the ignore step 809 as a positive
indication that the reading was within the threshold. Further, the series of store ratings provide a
breadcrumb data set of incremental changes that may be usable by the DMS.
[0106] Figure 9 depicts an embodiment where readings from multiple sensors {n1, n2, and n3}
may be used to determine a status of an animal. Again, each of the sensors in the diagram may
be constantly on, interrupt drive, or triggered on demand. At steps 901, 903, and 905, data is
collected from each sensor nI through n3. As discussed, the sensors may be located in wearable
device 101 and/or external devices (e.g., smartphone, RSS feed, etc.). Any one of sensors nI,
n2, and n3 may individually trigger an alert condition in step 906, and written to storage in step
907 and (optionally) the alert provided to the owner or DMS in step 909. Otherwise, the
determination is ignored in step 908. Similar to the process of Figure 8, data may be
breadcrumbed despite the sensor readings not exceeding a threshold as shown in the broken
lines from step 906 to step 907 and then back to step 908.
[0107] Alternatively, step 906 may require a consensus of all three readings a weighted basis is
needed to either confirm an alert condition or ignore the sensed the data. For example, at step
907, in response to one or more of sensors nI, n2, and/or n3 triggering an alert condition at steps
901, 903, and/or 905, respectively, a combination of the sensed data from each sensor is
compared to one or more thresholds to determine if, e.g., an alert condition is present. Further, at
step 907 the sensed readings may be compared to past readings that are either stored locally
(e.g., within wearable device 101) or stored, e.g., in the DMS 301. Thus, using the sensed data
from multiple sensors (in the depicted embodiment, nI through n3), inferences regarding animal
and pet safety, wellness, and health may be formed at step 907 based on analysis of the sensor's
readings and/or, e.g., breadcrumbs (time-stamped recordings). If the combination of the sensor
data triggers an alert (e.g., if the combination of data confirms an alert condition), the alert may
14655241 1

                                                    29
be returned at step 909 (to, e.g., a pet owner and/or veterinarian, etc.). However, if the
combination of sensor data does not trigger an alert after being compared to one or more
thresholds, the data is ignored at step 908 and the method returns to steps 901/903/905 to
receive further data. In any event (e.g., alert or ignore) the readings and results may be written to
local storage at step 907 for subsequent upload to the DMS 301.
[0108] The analysis of the sensor data at step 803 or the multiple sensor data at step 907 may be
performed in any suitable location within the system. In some embodiments the analysis may be
performed in the wearable device 101. In such embodiments, wearable device 101 may perform
episodic data analysis (e.g., independent intelligent decisions) as well as longitudinal data
analysis. For the latter, the wearable device may monitor a number of recorded breadcrumbs of
various events over time. For example, the wearable device 101 may monitor the animal's
temperature over time in order to monitor the animal's condition in compliance with FAA
regulations on pets stored in cargo holds. In other embodiments, the wearable device 101 may
monitor the animal's barking over time to ensure the animal 401 is complying with local by
laws or to interpret continued barking as a potential stress indicator.
[0109] In other embodiments, the analysis of the sensor data may be performed in DMS 301.
Again, DMS 301 may perform both episodic data analysis as well as longitudinal data analysis.
For the latter, DMS 301 may look at individual events, combined events, and derived events
(e.g., calorie intake versus activity levels). By looking at such events in the DMS 301, patterns
of animal's 301 health and wellness may be determined. For example, the DMS 301 may
determine patterns of improvement (or lack thereof) of an animal following a drug or therapy
treatment of animal 401 after it has left the veterinarian. Further, the wearable device 101 data
may be combined with sensors from other sources (e.g., RSS feeds 302, owner observations
312, etc.) in performing the analysis. For example, an RSS feed 302 including the number of
degree days may be compared to a number of high temperature alerts at a wearable device 101
to determine if, e.g., animal 401 is overheated or if, rather, it is just an abnormally warm month.
As another example, owner's observations 312 (e.g., observations of staggering after exertion,
unusual fatigue, abnormal coughing, pale gums, etc.) may lead the DMS 301 to modify the
profile or operation mode of the wearable device to employ profiles with finer granularity and
sensing more often and with more sensitive thresholds for cardiopulmonary algorithms at the
wearable device 101 level.
14655241 1

                                                   30
[0110] As presented in Figures 8 and 9, an analysis of an animal's health and wellness may be
performed by analyzing data from an individual sensor (e.g., Figure 8) or from the combination
of two or more sensors reading at the same time (e.g., Figure 9). In other embodiments, analysis
of an animal's health and wellness may be performed by one or more sensors triggering one or
more additional sensors in order to corroborate the data of the first sensor. This may be more
readily understood with reference to Figure 10. As shown in Figure 10, data is received from
one sensor (in the depicted embodiment, nI) at step 1001. This data is compared to one or more
thresholds at step 1003 as described with respect to Figures 8 and 9. If the sensor reading does
not exceed a threshold (e.g., is not interesting) then the data is ignored at step 1007 and the
method returns to step 1001 to obtain additional data. Alternatively, the data may always be
stored/written locally at step 1005 for later upload to DMS 301.
[0111] If the data from sensor n 1 obtained at step 1001 does exceed one or more thresholds at
step 1003, then signals from additional sensors may be checked to confirm or corroborate the
received data from step 1001. That is, in some embodiments, one or more sensors (in the
depicted embodiment, n1) may act as a "master" sensor after it has sensed a threshold level, and
then subsequently control additional "slave" sensors. Here, steps 100 1-1009 are related to the
operation of the master sensor nI, collectively identified by the dashed box 1OOM. Similarly,
steps 1010-1014 are related to the operation of the slave sensors n2 and n3, collectively
identified by the dashed box 1OOS. In the depicted embodiment, once data collected at step
1001 exceeds a threshold at step 1005, additional slave sensors are triggered to collect data at
step 1010 (n2) and step 1011 (n3) or their previously collected data checked. At step 1012,
analysis of the received data (e.g., data received at steps 1001, 1010, and/or 1011) may be
performed, and an inference may be made regarding animal's health and wellness. Further, the
data received from each sensor (nI, n2, and n3) may optionally be weighted or otherwise
adjusted to determine an inference regarding an animal's health and/or wellness as described
herein. If, at step 1012, the combined data does not exceed a threshold level (e.g., the further
data collected at steps 1010 and/or 1011 does not confirm and/or rather negates an inference
made at step 1003), then the data may be ignored at step 1007 and the method thus returns to
step 1001 to collect new data and thus continually monitor animal 401. However, if the data
collected at steps 1010 and/or 1011 confirms or supplements the inference made from the data
collected at step 1001, then this determination is recorded in step 1013 by writing this
determination into storage 105. Further, an alert may be returned to the animal's owner and/or a
14655241 1

                                                 31
veterinarian at step 1014. Again, regardless of the inference made (e.g., ignore versus alert) the
data may be written/stored locally at step 1013 for future upload to the DMS 301.
[0112] The methods described in Figures 8-10 (e.g., inferences made from a single sensor or a
combination of sensors) may be used arrive at specific inferences of an animal's health or
wellness. For example, the analysis of one or more sensors Nm may allow episodic and/or
longitudinal inferences to be made regarding animal's health and wellness. As an example
episodic inference that may be made using one or more sensors, in one embodiment a GPS geo
zone alert may be confirmed or canceled using, e.g., GPS sensor (as one example of the sensor
provided on wearable device 101). Specifically, a geo-zone alert may be prone to false positives
due to, e.g., temporary loss of communication with one or more satellites (which may thus be
interpreted as movement of animal 401). However, in some embodiments, a GPS geo-zone alert
may be compared with an accelerometer reading to corroborate/confirm the alert. Specifically, if
the animal 401 is not moving (as determined from data received from the accelerometer) the
geo-zone alert may be canceled.
[0113] Similarly, in some embodiments signal strength of, e.g., an RF signal may be compared
to GPS position of animal 401 to confirm, e.g., a breach of a geo-zone. Specifically, a reading
from the GPS may be indicative that the animal 401 has moved outside a geo-zone. However, if
signal strength of an RF signal from a base station (received at RF antenna) is still rather strong,
the GPS readings may be interpreted as a false positive (e.g., the result of losing communication
with one or more satellites) and thus the alert may be canceled.
[0114] As another example episodic inference that may be made using one or more sensors, a
reading of high acceleration (from, e.g., an accelerometer) may trigger additional sensors and/or
otherwise be compared with data from additional sensors to determine if animal 401 was
involved in an impact event (e.g., being hit by a vehicle). For example, a reading of high
acceleration from the accelerometer may be supplemented with a reading from, e.g., a light
meter and or a microphone on wearable device 101 (as two examples of internal sensors). If, in
addition to the high acceleration reading, the wearable device received a high light incidence
reading (e.g., headlights) and/or a high noise reading (e.g., impact) then an alert of a possible
impact event may be returned.
14655241 1

                                                    32
[0115] As another example episodic inference that may be made using one or more sensors, a
breach of a perimeter fence (as determined by RF antenna, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or other RF
technology 107) may be compared to readings from an ambient light, sound, temperature, and/or
humidity sensor on wearable device 101 (as examples of internal sensors) to determine if animal
401 has in fact, e.g., left a house. If the sensed humidity, temperature, light, etc., is indicative of
the animal 401 being outside, then the perimeter fence alert may be returned. However, if each
reading is indicative of the animal 401 being inside, the breach of perimeter fence alert may be
interpreted as a false positive and thus canceled.
[0116] As another example episodic inference that may be made using one or more sensors, data
from, e.g., a microphone (as one example of a sensor) may be compared with reading from an
accelerometer (as another example of a sensor) to determine if animal 401 has been, e.g.,
barking longer than a threshold period of time. For example, a reading from a microphone may
be indicative of animal 401 barking, or may be due to some other event (e.g., thunder).
However, data received from the accelerometer may confirm/negate that the animal has been
barking according to whether or not a signature head movement or vibration of a barking event
was sensed or not.
[0117] Further, sensed data from an inward looking antenna (e.g., a UWB antenna) may be
compared with a microphone to form many inferences related to respiration quality and the like.
For example, UWB antenna may be used to form an inference of animal's respiration quality by
monitoring movement of muscles in the neck area (e.g., the muscles surrounding the animal's
trachea 511). Further, the sensed UWB data may be corroborated with a microphone located on
wearable device 101 and/or an external microphone (e.g., a microphone located on an owner's
personal mobile device such as a smartphone, etc.) to make an inference regarding whether the
animal 401 has kennel cough, bronchitis, etc.
[0118] As another example episodic inference that may be made using one or more sensors,
noninvasive cardio output may be determined by measuring both heart rate (beats per minute),
quality (fluctuations over the minute), and stroke volume to provide cardiac output using UWB
technology on either an episodic or trending basis. Other derived conclusions from these
measurements may also include a change in blood pressure over time and whether the animal is
losing blood volume due external or internal bleeding. These sensors may be placed on the
14655241 1

                                                    33
animal's chest near the sternum, at the front of the neck near the wind pipe and carotid arteries,
or on other parts of the animal to pick up specific signals of interest.
[0119] As another example episodic inference that may be made using one or more sensors,
noninvasive core temperature may be measured and/or derived from several internal and
ambient thermistors. Further, microwave radiometry/thermometry (using a microwave antenna)
along with other techniques may be used to determine fluctuations in core temperature which
may be indications of hypothermia, hyperthermia, bacterial or viral infections, inflammation, on
set of disease, immune-mediated or neoplastic diseases, extreme exercise, or ovulation.
[0120] As another example of an episodic inference that may be made using one or more
sensors, noninvasive measurement of blockages in the digestive track can be accomplished by
moving the wearable device 101 to the area of concern to allow readings and an upload of data
from this activity using the UWB technology.
[0121] As another example episodic inference that may be made using one or more sensors,
noninvasive measurement of the animal's drinking and eating habits may be measured
independently or corroborated with other sensors using UWB technology by examining signals
from the neck area including the esophagus and surrounding tissues.
[0122] In some embodiments, a base line measurement of animal 401 may be determined and
then compared to subsequent data collection to determine, e.g., one or more of the inferences
discussed herein. In some embodiments, data received from two or more sensors may be used to
determine, e.g., that it is an appropriate time to collect this baseline data. For example, in some
embodiments, a clock or other component (e.g., light meter, etc.) may be accessed to determine,
e.g., that it is night time. Further, data from the accelerometer may be referenced to confirm that,
e.g., animal 401 is sleeping (as indicated by no or little acceleration). In such embodiments, a
baseline measurement of one or more vital signs and/or physiological signs may be taken in
response to the one or more sensors indicating that animal 401 is sleeping.
[0123] The above methods of determining episodic inferences from one or more sensors may be
more readily understood with reference to a specific example. In one embodiment, wearable
device 101 may include an accelerometer, a microphone (as examples of internal sensors) and/or
cardiopulmonary sensors (e.g., UWB device). In such an embodiment, the accelerometer may
measure a high acceleration event, and the wearable device 101/DMS 301 may interpret the
14655241 1

                                                  34
acceleration as indicative of a possible impact event (e.g., the animal 401 was hit by a vehicle).
The wearable device 101/DMS 301 may then corroborate or confirm this interpretation by
referencing other sensors, e.g., microphone. For example, if the microphone sensed a loud noise
at the moment of the high acceleration, the inference of an impact event may be confirmed. This
may then trigger other sensors, such as cardiopulmonary sensors (e.g., UWB device). For
example, the cardiopulmonary sensors may check animal 401 for anomalies, which may include,
e.g., checking animal 401 for loss of blood volume (indicative of, e.g., internal or external
bleeding).
[0124] The example of an episodic inference of an impact event made by the wearable device
101 and/or DMS 301 is illustrated in Figure 11. Figure 11 illustrates how readings of one or
more sensors may be interpreted as indicating that an event has occurred. As it shown in Figure
11, signals from five sensors are used with the sensors identified as Na, Nb, Nc, Nd, and Ne,
respectively. The readings from sensors Na 1101, Nb 1102, and Nc 1103 are weighted
independently by weighting factors WNa 1104, WNb 1105, and WNc 1106, respectively. Next,
in step 1107, it is determined if the weighted combination of the readings of these three sensors
is above a threshold al. If no, then the system ignores the sensor readings in step 1108 and
returns to monitoring the animal. If yes, then this determination is stored in step 1109 and the
alert provided as alert level 1 in step 1110.
[0125] Figure 11 also includes the ability for determination of a second alert level (alert level 2).
For instance, the system knows after step 1107 that alert level 1 has been reached. The system
may additionally check in step 1111 the weighted combination or perform an additional
weighting and compare the weighted combination against a second alert level threshold, here,
the a2 threshold. If yes from step 1111, that is second alert level a2 is stored in step 1112 and
alert level 2 is identified to the owner/DMS in step 1113.
[0126] If no from step 1111 as having not found a second alert level based on the initial
weighted sensor readings from sensors Na, Nb, and Nc, there may be additional sensor inputs
that allow a determination that the second alert level has been reached. For instance, sensor
readings from sensors Nd 1114 and Ne 1115 may be obtained. For the sensor reading from
sensor Nd, the system determines in step 1115 if the sensor reading is below a low threshold for
sensor Nd. If yes, then this determination is stored in step 1112 and the alert level 2 is provided
in step 1113. If no from step 1115, the system determines in step 1116 if the sensor reading is
14655241 1

                                                   35
above a high threshold for sensor Nd. If yes, then this determination is stored in step 1112 and
the alert level 2 is provided in step 1113. If no from step 1116, then the system continues to
provide the alert level 1 in step 1110.
[0127] A similar determination may be made for reading from sensor Ne. For the sensor reading
from sensor Ne, the system determines in step 1118 if the sensor reading is below a low
threshold for sensor Ne. If yes, then this determination is stored in step 1112 and the alert level 2
is provided in step 1113. If no from step 1118, the system determines in step 1119 if the sensor
reading is above a high threshold for sensor Ne. If yes, then this determination is stored in step
1112 and the alert level 2 is provided in step 1113. If no from step 1119, then the system
continues to provide the alert level 1 in step 1110.
[0128] Finally, one of the original sensor levels may be reviewed to determine if it is outside of
a profile for that sensor. For instance, in step 1120, the sensor readings of sensor Nc are
compared against a profile for that sensor. If the readings are outside of that profile, then this
determination is stored in step 1112 and the alert level 2 is provided in step 1113. If no from
step 1120, then the system continues to provide the alert level 1 in step 1110.
[0129] The following explains how Figure 11 may be applied to specific sensor readings to
determine if an event has occurred. The following example explains how a determination is
made that a high impact event has occurred. Here, sensors Na, Nb, Nc, Nd, and Ne are
represented by a light meter sensor ni, a microphone/peak sound sensor n2, an accelerometer
n3, a GPS receiver n4, and a cardiopulmonary sensor n5, respectively.
[0130] At step 1103, accelerometer (n3) senses a high acceleration event (e.g., 10+ G's)
potentially indicative of a high-impact event. In this embodiment, the accelerometer (n3) acts as
a "master" sensor such that when it has sensed this episodic condition at step 1103 (e.g., high
accelerations possibly indicative of an impact event), it may control the sensing and/or data
reporting of other sensors to confirm/corroborate the event. Specifically, processor 100 may use
the high signal on accelerometer n3 to look back for recent readings from light meter ni and
microphone n2. Those recent readings may have been stored in storage 105 or in storage 119,
depending on the sensor. The effect is that accelerometer sensor n3 is, for this instance, a master
sensor and the light meter ni and microphone n2 are the slave sensors.
14655241 1

                                                  36
[0131] The previous readings from the slave sensors are reviewed to look for episodic threshold
events to create a more accurate picture as to what has transpired over the previous time interval
and possibly confirm a possible high impact event from accelerometer n3. Thus, at step 1105
processor 100 retrieves stored data from the microphone/peak sound sensor (n2) for a time
period immediately preceding and overlapping with the high acceleration reading, and at step
1107 processor 100 retrieves stored data from the light meter ni for a time period immediately
preceding and overlapping with the high acceleration reading.
[0132] At steps 1104-1106, the data received from each sensor may be weighted and combined
into a single result to determine in step 1107 if the constructed profile meets a high degree of
probability that an event of interest (e.g., impact) has occurred. For example, if the light meter
(n1) sensed a high incidence of light (potentially indicative of headlights), and/or if the
microphone/peak sound sensor (n2) sensed a loud noise (potentially indicative of a being
impacted by a vehicle), then the method may determine at step 1107 that an impact has in fact
occurred. If the other readings do not confirm the possible impact event, then the data may be
ignored at step 1108. Regardless, the data received may be written and/or stored locally at step
1109 for subsequent upload to the DMS 301.
[0133] If the combined and corroborated data meets certain conditions (e.g., each is indicative
of an impact event) in step 1107, the master sensor (in the depicted embodiment, accelerometer
n3) may trigger and/or change states other sensors (including itself) in order to, e.g., take
individual spot readings, schedule-based readings, or change each sensor's sensing
configurations. If the readings are inconclusive, the sensors are instructed to continue reading.
[0134] For example, in the depicted embodiment, at step 1109, the accelerometer (n3) changes
(as being controlled by processor 100) from being in an interrupt mode (e.g., looking for
episodic events) to a real-time monitoring of motion activities. This real-time monitoring may
be compared to a profile to determine if the animal's gait has changed dramatically as
determined in step 1120. At step 1117, the GPS sensor (n4) is instructed (i.e., controlled by
processor 100) to determine location, speed, and/or direction of the animal 401. If the animal
401 is moving in a sustained fashion, this reading would have a lower risk ratio assigned to it.
Further, at step 1107, the cardiopulmonary sensor (n5) may be triggered to check on heart rate,
respiration rate, stroke volume, and/or a change in blood pressure. The cardiopulmonary sensor
(n5) may thus look for anomalies (e.g., loss of blood) and assign a risk ratio to the readings. Or,
14655241 1

                                                      37
in other words, the processor 100 may look for anomalous readings from the cardiopulmonary
sensor n5 and assign a risk ratio to those readings.
[0135] At steps 1115, 1116, 1118, and 1119, the processor in the wearable device 101 and/or
DMS 301 may compare the data from one or more of the above sensors to determine, e.g., an
alert level following the determined episode (e.g., impact event). For example, after considering
all of the above weighted data points, the processor may determine that the event recorded
merits various levels of alerts (at steps 1110 and 1113) to be sent to the owner and/or the
veterinarian based on the reliability of the sensor readings. Further, the wearable device 101
may be instructed to continue reading at steps 1110 and 1113 in order to continually monitor the
animal's progress following the impact event.
[0136] The following equations describe the weighting of the values of the sensors and the
comparison against the alert level thresholds. Equation (1) below describes how a sensor reading
from sensor Nc is checked against the threshold for sensor Nc:
(1)      If (nc > nc threshold), then alert for nc exceeding nc threshold
[0137] Equation (2) below describes how a sensor reading from sensor Nc is checked against
the threshold for sensor Nc and, if the threshold is exceeded, then determining if a weighted
combination of sensor readings Na and Nb and Nc exceed the alert level 1 threshold:
(2)                                       If (nc > nc threshola),
                                                    then,
  if (na max    over time T1) X Wa + (nb max    over time T2) X Wb + (n. max    over time T3) x Wc a1,
           na threshold                    nb threshold                    nc threshold
                                           then alert for alert 1
where:
         al is the alert level 1 threshold such that a value above al results in alert level 1 while a
         value below al does not result in an alert;
         Times TI, T2, and T3 are the time intervals in which the previous readings for sensors
         Na, Nb, and Nc are reviewed; and
         Wa, Wb, and Wc are the weighting values for each of the Na, Nb, and Nc sensor
         readings.
14655241 1

                                                        38
[0138] Notably, equation (2) normalizes the values of each sensor by dividing the max value of
the sensor during a time window (or min as appropriate) by the threshold. This permits the
individual units of each sensor to cancel out. Next, the weighting factors scale each normalized
sensor reading such that they can be added and compared against the threshold for alert level 1
(al).
         Equation (3) below describes a similar analysis as that of equation (2) but sets the alert
         level threshold at the alert level 2 a2 threshold:
         (3)      If (n, > nc threshold),
                  then,
                  if                         (na max    over time T1) X W+ +   (nb max    over time T2) X Wb +
                                                   na threshold                      nb threshold
         (ne max     over time T3) x Wc
                                         > a2,
               nc threshold
                  then alert for alert 2
         where:
         a2 is the alert level 2 threshold such that a value above a2 results in alert level 2 while a
         value below a2 does not result in an alert;
         Times TI, T2, and T3 are the time intervals in which the previous readings for sensors
         Na, Nb, and Nc are reviewed; and
         Wa, Wb, and Wc are the weighting values for each of the Na, Nb, and Nc sensor
         readings.
         Equation (4a) and (4b) relate to equation (2) but also includes the slave sensor analyses
         of Figure 11:
         (4a)     If (master) (na > na threshold) and
                      (na max       over time TI)            + (nb max        over time T2)
                                                     X Wa                                       X Wb
                               na threshold                              nb threshold
                                         (+ c max       over time T3)
                                                  nc threshold
         then activate slave (4b)
         (4b)     If
                  (((na < na low threshold) or (nd        >   na high threshold))
                  or
14655241   1

                                                   39
                ((ne < ne low threshold) or (ne > ne high threshold))
                or
                ((na # preexisting profile for na)),
                then alert level 2, otherwise alert level 1.
        where:
        al is the alert level 1 threshold such that a value above al results in alert level 1 while a
        value below al does not result in an alert;
        Times TI, T2, and T3 are the time intervals in which the previous readings for sensors
        Na, Nb, and Nc are reviewed;
        Wa, Wb, and Wc are the weighting values for each of the Na, Nb, and Nc sensor
        readings; and
        "preexisting profile for na" is a profile for expected values of na over a time interval.
[0139] Here, alert level 2 is defined by being activated by both master and slave reaching
predefined levels. Alert level 1 is defined by being activated by only the master reaching its
predefined level but the slave not reaching its predefined level.
[0140] The equations above also permit the sensors to be located on other devices based on the
time T being evaluated for each sensor reading. So, once a common time is determined (for
instance, the time T(Nc) at which the reading from sensor Nc exceeded the Nc threshold), the
other sensor readings are time normalized from that time T(Nc) and evaluated.
[0141]
[0142] Sensors Located on Different Devices
[0143] As described above, all of the sensors may be located on wearable device 101 or some
located on the wearable device 101 and others located on a separate device. A separate device
may be a user's smartphone (e.g. the microphone on the smartphone). In short, data may be
captured and compared from sensors located on more than one device (e.g., wearable device 101
and a user's mobile device) and compared to determine, e.g., an episodic inference about the
animal's health and wellness. For example, Figure 12 illustrates one example method for
capturing sensor data from more than one device which can then be forwarded to the DMS 301
and analyzed to determine an inference regarding animal's health and wellness (in the depicted
14655241 1

                                                  40
example, respiration inferences). As with Figure 11, the timeline 12011 of Figure 12 indicates a
relative time that each step is performed relative to one another. In Figure 12, at step 1201 a user
opens a mobile device application. For example, the health-monitoring system as described
herein may include a companion mobile application that can be downloaded to an animal 401
owner's smartphone, tablet, computer, etc., which may capable of triggering sensors on demand.
A user may be the animal's owner or a veterinarian, etc. In step 1202, the user may select a
function they wish to collect data about. The specific sensors selected for capturing and
returning data may vary depending on what particular inference, etc., the user triggers. In the
embodiment depicted in Figure 12, the user selects respiration analysis. At step 1203,
commands may be sent to the sensors to collect and/or forward data related to this respiration
analysis. For example, because the user selected "respiration analysis," a command may be sent
to a cardiopulmonary sensor (n5) and to an accelerometer (n3), both located on wearable device
101, and to a microphone (n14) located on the user's mobile device. At steps 1204, 1205, and
1206, each respective device may collect data and/or retrieve previously collected data. These
sensors could be placed on standby and triggered based on the start of an event (as, for instance,
a coughing fit).
[0144] In the following three examples, the following scenarios are explained: no triggering
between the mobile device and the wearable device (only being synced by the DMS), triggering
of the mobile device to start recording by the wearable device, and triggering of the wearable
device to start recording by the mobile device. In the first example, an application executing on
the user's mobile device may be executing and recording audio files with time stamping. The
DMS may correlate the audio file with readings from accelerometers based on time-stamps of
data obtained from the accelerometers. In the second example, the mobile device or the
wearable device may trigger the other based on sensed levels exceeding a threshold. For
instance, the mobile device may be waiting for the wearable device to indicate that the wearable
device's accelerometer has started sensing the coughing fit at which point the wearable device
alerts the mobile device. In response to the alert, the mobile device may start recording an audio
file with time stamps. In this example, the excess, uninteresting audio file recorded before the
dog started coughing is not recorded. In the third example, the mobile device informs the
wearable device that the microphone on the mobile device has picked up the sounds of the
coughing fit and that the wearable device is to monitor the animal. In the following three
examples, the following scenarios are explained:
14655241 1

                                                 41
[0145] Each piece of collected data at steps 1204-1206 may be time-stamped such that, when
analyzed, each may be lined up in order or otherwise synchronized to correctly aggregate and
consider each piece of data with the others. At step 1207, the data collected on wearable device
101 is uploaded to the DMS 301, and at step 1208, the data collected at the user's mobile device
is uploaded to DMS 301. At step 1209, the uploaded data are correlated against each other based
on synchronizing the timestamps to determine when a relevant. Of coughing has begun. Next, in
step 1210 the data are analyzed at the DMS 301 to determine appropriate inferences regarding
the animal's health and wellness (in the depicted example, respiration quality).
[0146] For example, the combined data may lead to an inference that the animal 401 is suffering
from kennel cough or bronchitis. Further, because in some embodiments the data will be time
stamped, an inference may be readily determined even though the sensor readings are coming
from disparate sources (here, wearable device 101 and a mobile device). Although as described
the analysis step 1210 is performed at the DMS 301, in other embodiments the analysis may be
performed at the user's mobile device and/or the wearable device 101.
[0147] In addition to episodic inferences made using the methods depicted in Figures 8-12,
longitudinal inferences (e.g., trending inferences) may be made using the above described
methods. That is, because collected data may be stored locally in the wearable device (at, e.g.,
steps 805, 907, 1005/1013, and/or 1109/1112) and/or uploaded to the DMS 301 for storage,
changes or fluctuations, etc., in data over time may be monitored, and according longitudinal
(trending) inferences may be made regarding animal's health and wellness.
[0148] By way of example, in some embodiments animal's long-term weight fluctuations may
be monitored and inferences may be made about the animal 401 accordingly. For example,
monitoring long-term weight fluctuations are important as a lean pet has a 15% increase in
lifespan (+2 years) and may also be a precursor to other developing conditions. On the other end
of the scale, rapid weight loss may be indicative of a digestive track blockage or cachexia where
the body is breaking down protein and fat due to the onset of diabetes. Thus, by monitoring and
comparing an animal's weight overtime, an inference as to the animal's health and wellness may
be determined.
[0149] As another example of a longitudinal inference that may be determined using one or
more sensors, an activity level of an animal may be monitored (using, e.g., an accelerometer,
14655241 1

                                                  42
GPS, etc.). Further, the measured activity levels may be adjusted by the DMS 301 for weekends
and weekday lifestyle profiles of the animal 401 and/or the animal's owner. For instance, if the
owner takes the animal for walks at 3 am, this may be identified by the owner to the DMS and
the DMS refrain from alerting the owner that the animal has left the owner's house at night.
Inferences made from the monitored activity levels may indicate that the animal is not being
provided with enough exercise opportunity or that conditions such arthritis are slowing the
animal down during times of self-initiated activity.
[0150] As another example of a longitudinal inference that may be determined using one or
more sensors, the animal's eating and hydration habits may be monitored over time. Hydration
and eating fluctuations may be important indicators of developing polyphagia and polydipsia
conditions related to diabetes.
[0151] As another example of a longitudinal inference that may be determined using one or
more sensors, sleep patterns of an animal may be monitored to form inferences regarding
animal's health and wellness. Sleep patterns may be important indicators of underlying issues
with pets such as osteoarthritis. Some owners may assume that an animal sleeping more is just a
result of old age, whereas, in reality, it may be an indicator of developing medical conditions.
For example, an animal may not limp or whine when excited during play and act like a younger
dog but will pay for it later. This may manifest itself in longer rests, stiffness on rising, and
resistance to go on their regular walks. Other reasons for longer sleep periods could be caused
by thyroid, kidney, or liver disease. Animals may also have sleep disruption caused by
obsessive-compulsive behavior disorders. In some embodiments, sleep patterns may be derived
by the DMS 301 and collaborated with owner personal observations 312.
[0152] According to other aspects of the disclosure, longitudinal inferences may be determined
using the provided UWB technology of the wearable device (e.g., using the UWB device). For
example, in one embodiment respiration monitoring may uncover abnormal signs such as
panting while resting, using more abdominal muscles to breath, labored breathing, asymmetrical
breathing, increased or decreased breathing rates, wheezing, coughing, and choking.
[0153] As another example of a longitudinal inference that may be determined using UWB
technology, the animal's heart rate may be monitored over time by UWB device. Heart rate
monitoring may uncover increased or decreased heart rate and/or abnormal rhythms, which may
14655241 1

                                                 43
include the heart speeding up and slowing down or missing beats. In additional embodiments,
stroke volume measured overtime may be used to derive the overall fitness level of the animal
401 and/or indicate that the animal 401 is developing conditions that would cause it to be lower.
[0154] As another example of a longitudinal inference that may be determined using UWB
technology, an animal's blood pressure changes (both increased and decreased blood pressure)
may be monitored. Blood pressure changes from a base line (which may be measured, e.g.,
when animal 401 is sleeping or otherwise in a state of low activity as discussed) may be an
indicator of hypertension developing which may lead to other severe medical conditions.
[0155] In any of the above embodiments, collected data may be time-stamped in order
determine time-dependent inferences. That is, time stamping the various sensing activities and
the ability to look backward in time allows for a root-cause analysis to determine an adverse
event (e.g. the animal was walking fine, but then played fetch and is now limping). Further, in
some embodiments, time-stamping may also allow for the analysis of the rate of change which
in turn can be used to predict a possible outcome (e.g. the animal is running at an increasing rate
of speed towards the outer area of the geo-zone and thus is likely to breach that zone).
[0156] Figure 13 presents a table 1301 summarizing illustrative attributes of some sensors that
may be located on wearable device 101 or located external to wearable device 101 and used in
conjunction with the health-monitoring system described herein according to some aspects of
the disclosure. Specifically, 1301 contains column 1303 denoting a number of each sensor
(denoted as Nm), column 1305 indicating the type of each sensor, column 1306 describing the
location of the sensor relative to the wearable device, column 1307 indicating a primary purpose
of each sensor, column 1308 describing a general category of sensor, column 1309 indicating
whether each sensor may act as a master or a slave sensor (as described herein with respect to
Figure 14), column 1311 indicating a secondary purpose (if any) of each sensor.
[0157] By way of example, in this embodiment NI refers to a light meter and/or spectrometer
located on wearable device 101. As denoted in column 1307, the light meter's primary purpose
may be to monitor light levels surrounding wearable device 101 (and thus animal 401). Further,
as indicated in column 1309, the light meter may only act as a slave sensor and thus, in this
embodiment, may not control other sensors. As indicated in column 1311, the light meter may
14655241 1

                                                    44
also have a secondary purpose, here serving as an indoor/outdoor indicator (by, e.g., sensing UV
levels) or analyzing nearby chemical signatures in the air.
[0158] Figure 14 presents a table indicating illustrative master/slave relationships of each sensor
presented in Figure 13 according to or more embodiments of the disclosure. Specifically, Figure
14 includes rows identifying each sensor as well as columns identifying each sensor. The values
in each cell identify the relationship as a row sensor is a master sensor in contrast to the slave
identified in the column sensor where the intersecting cell includes an "X". At the intersection
of the same sensor in the row and column title, the cell value is identified by "I" to indicate if
the identical sensor. Interestingly, in some implementations, each sensor may act as a master to
itself (e.g., control further collection of data by itself in response to a sensed reading). An
example of this is shown in step 1120 of Figure 11 identifying whether the readings from sensor
Nc are outside of an expected profile.
[0159] By way of example, as indicated by each "X" or darkened cell in the row following "N3"
listed, in some embodiments accelerometer (N3) may act as a master to slave sensors NI (light
meter), N2 (peak sound), N3 (itself, accelerometer), N4 (GPS), N5 (cardiopulmonary), N6
(temperature), N8 (Wi-Fi), N9 (Bluetooth), N10 (RF), and NIl (GSM). Further, as indicated by
each "X" or darkened cell in the column below "N3", in some embodiments accelerometer (N3)
may serve as a slave to other master sensors, namely N3 (itself, accelerometer), N5
(cardiopulmonary), N13 (battery strength), and N14 (mobile microphone).
[0160] Figure 15 relates to various operation modes and how each sensor may operate in the
various operation modes. Column 1501 identifies the sensor by number. Column 1502 identifies
a sensor type. Column 1503 identifies how each sensor operates in a profile operation mode.
Column 1504 identifies how each sensor operates in an airplane (no RF radios operative)
operation mode. Column 1505 identifies how each sensor operates in a location alert operation
mode.
[0161] For instance, Figure 15 identifies the peak sound sensor, the accelerometer, and the time
of day sensor (e.g., an internal clock) are not affected by the specific profile settings when in the
profile mode as shown in column 1503. The remaining sensors may have different operations
based on the profile.
14655241 1

                                                  45
[0162] In the airplane operation mode 1504, most of the sensors are off while peak sound is in a
standby state the accelerometer, the ambient temperature sensor, and the time of day sensor are
on. In other words, the operation of the sensors in the airplane mode identifies that all radios,
sensors, and/or components that generate significant that generate significant electro-magnetic
radiation are disabled.
[0163] In the location alert operation mode 1505, all sensors that may help determine the
location of an animal are on, including light meter, accelerometer, GPS, WiFi signal detector,
Bluetooth signal detector, RF signal detector, and GSM signal detector sensors. The remaining
sensors may be turned off to help conserve power. The battery strength sensor may also be left
on in the location alert mode 1505 to identify to the collar when it is running low on power. For
example, the cardiopulmonary sensor n5 is disabled in favor of the GPS sensor/radio n4, the Wi
Fi sensor/radio n8, the Bluetooth sensor/radio n9, the RF sensor/radio, n10, and the GSM
sensor/radio ni1, depending on which of these sensors/radios are present.
[0164] Figures 16A-16G relate to different profiles usable by wearable device 101. In each of
Figures 16A-16G, column 1601 identifies the sensor number and columns 1602 identifies the
sensor type.
[0165] Figure 16A describes a first profile, Profile 0, which relates to a normal monitoring
profile set by the owner. The profile type identified in cell 1603A and its title identified in cell
1604A. Here, the range between the low threshold 1605A and the high threshold 1606A is set
relatively large, the frequency of operation of each sensor is relatively infrequently, and
granularity for the readings of various sensors is low. This profile is an example of a normal
profile set by the owner. For instance, a processor operating under Profile 0 of Figure 16A has a
low granularity for accelerometer sensor n3. The low granularity may take the form of a low
pass filter applied to a signal from the accelerometer sensor n3. The low pass filter may smooth
any instantaneous accelerometer output level to eliminate and/or reduce the triggering of the
accelerometer high threshold when the instantaneous output is above the high threshold but
while the average output is low. Alternatively, the low pass filter may be replaced with a
smoothing filter (e.g., a convolution filter with a longer time constant) to reduce any errant
spikes in the signal from the accelerometer n3. Further, the above described filters may be part
of the processor such that the processor ignores or is less sensitive to acceleration spikes with
short duration
14655241 1

                                                  46
[0166] Figure 16B describes a second profile, Profile 1, which relates to an enhanced
monitoring profile set by the owner. The profile type identified in cell 1603B and its title
identified in cell 1604B. Here, the range between the low threshold 1605B and the high
threshold 1606B is narrow compared to that of Profile 0 of Figure 16A, the frequency of
operation of each sensor is relatively more frequent, and granularity for the readings of various
sensors is high. This profile is an example of an enhanced profile where the owner is concerned
about the pet's current health and desires more information to be obtained by the collar. In
contrast to the Profile 0 of Figure 16A, this Profile 1 has enhanced sensitivity as shown in some
of the trigger point for the low thresholds of column 1605B being higher and the trigger point
for the high thresholds of column 1606B being lower. Also in some instances, the frequency of
monitoring in column 1601B is more often. Similarly, the granularity as shown in column
1608B is also high. For instance, for accelerometer n3, the granularity is described in column
1608B as being high. With respect to the example of the low pass filter, the filter may be
removed or modified to reduce the level of filtering of higher frequency signals. With respect to
the example of the smoothing filter, the time constant (or window of time over which the
smoothing takes place) is reduced to permit higher frequency acceleration signals to be analyzed
by a processor. Also, as described with respect to Figure 16A, the filters may be part of the
processor such that the processor adjusts internally how sensitive it is to the outputs of various
sensors based on a current profile.
[0167] Figure 16C describes a third profile, Profile 2, which relates to a normal monitoring
profile set by the veterinarian. The profile type identified in cell 1603C and its title identified in
cell 1604C. Here, the range between the low threshold 1605C and the high threshold 1606C is
set relatively large with even some sensors not being used as the veterinarian may not need the
readings from the sensors, the frequency of operation of each sensor is relatively infrequently,
and granularity for the readings of various sensors is low. This is an example of a profile where
the vet may be monitoring the pet's current health to establish a baseline or as a function of
general monitoring (for example, in preparation for a checkup).
[0168] Figure 16D describes a fourth profile, Profile 3, which relates to an enhanced monitoring
profile set by the veterinarian. The profile type identified in cell 1603D and its title identified in
cell 1604D. Here, the range between the low threshold 1605D and the high threshold 1606D is
set relatively narrow, the frequency of operation of each sensor is relatively frequent, and
granularity for the readings of various sensors is high. Again here, some sensors are disabled as
14655241 1

                                                   47
the veterinarian may have no need for the readings from those sensors. For instance, this profile
may be used before surgery or a procedure (e.g., teeth cleaning with the animal being
anesthetized) is performed on the animal to ensure no recent dramatic events have occurred to
the animal prior to the surgery/procedure.
[0169] For instance, this profile may be used after surgery or after a procedure to monitor for
possibility of complications arising from the surgery. Based on the level of need for monitoring
the animal, the rate at which information is provided to the veterinarian may be further modified
in accordance with the examples of Figure 22 as relating to the following:
[0170] A.        Identification of events by the wearable device and uploading those events to the
veterinarian,
[0171]     B.    Logging of raw data from the sensors and batch uploads of the logged data to the
veterinarian, or
[0172] C.        Continuous uploads of raw data to the veterinarian.
[0173] With respect to the above description and the description of Figure 22, the uploads of the
identified events and/or raw data to the veterinarian may be a direct transfer from the wearable
device to a remote device (for instance, to a computer on a same local Wi-Fi network as the
wearable device) or may be an indirect transfer from the wearable device to the DMS which
then forwards to the veterinarian (or makes available for the veterinarian to access) the
identified events and/or raw data from the wearable device. Further, the DMS may further
derived events from the raw data and possibly the device-derived events from the wearable
device. These DMS-derived events may be further provided to the veterinarian or made
available for viewing by the veterinarian as desired.
[0174] Figure 16E describes a fifth profile, Profile 4, which relates to a monitoring profile for a
first specific symptom type as set by the veterinarian. The profile type identified in cell 1603E
and its title identified in cell 1604E. Here, the range between the low threshold 1605E and the
high threshold 1606E is set relatively narrow, the frequency of operation of each sensor is
relatively frequent, and granularity for the readings of various sensors is high for some sensors
but low for others. In this profile, the veterinarian is concentrating on values from some sensors
14655241 1

                                                   48
over other sensors. For instance, the veterinarian may be monitoring for gait-related issues based
on the accelerometer frequency sampling being "always on" and the granularity being "high".
[0175] Figure 16F describes a sixth profile, Profile 5, which relates to a monitoring profile for a
second specific symptom type as set by the veterinarian. The profile type identified in cell
1603F and its title identified in cell 1604F. Here, the range between the low threshold 1605F
and the high threshold 1606F is set relatively narrow, the frequency of operation of each sensor
is relatively frequent, and granularity for the readings of various sensors is high for some
sensors but low for others. In this profile in contrast to that of Profile 4, the veterinarian is
concentrating on values from a difference of sensors then important sensors of Profile 4 of
Figure 16E. Here, the veterinarian may be monitoring for a cardiopulmonary-type symptoms or
similar set of symptoms by the cardiopulmonary sensor n5 frequency being set to obtain a
reading every minute with its granularity set to high.
[0176] Figure 16G describes a seventh profile, Profile 6, which relates to an enhanced
monitoring profile set by the veterinarian in which some sensors are operated continuously as
opposed to their standard intermittent usage. The profile type identified in cell 1603G and its
title identified in cell 1604G. Here, the range between the low threshold 1605A and the high
threshold 1606A is set relatively arrow, the frequency of operation of each sensor depends on its
importance. For those sensors that are not important, they are not operated and in contrast other
sensors are operated continuously. For instance, this profile may be used when an animal is
recovering from surgery and the veterinarian desires continuous readings of the vital
signs/physiological signs of the animal without stressing the animal by having individual
sensors for each vital sign/physiological sign being separately attached. Alternatively, this
profile may be used when the animal is in critical condition and is in a constantly monitored
state. In this profile, some items are not monitored as they are not relevant when staying in
hospital. For instance, monitoring the ambient temperature via sensor n6 or monitoring for GPS
signals with sensor n4 are not needed. This profile of Figure 16G enables veterinarians to use
the wearable device 101 in place of separately attached individual sensors that would normally
be attached individually to the animal.
[0177] Figure 18 shows an example of how various sensor profiles may be modified based on
breed information of the animal to which the monitoring devices attached in accordance with
one or more aspects of the disclosure. Specifically, column 1801 identifies those sensors which
14655241 1

                                                  49
may be modified or adjusted in sensitivity when processing based on the type of breed of
animal. For instance, high and low thresholds for cardiopulmonary sensor n5 may be adjusted
upwards for a breed that has a high average heart rate and downwards for a breed that has a low
average heart rate.
[0178] Figure 18 shows an embodiment with different operation modes of the wearable device
in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure. In this embodiment, the wearable
device operates in one of three operation modes: a profile mode 1802, an airplane mode 1803,
and a location alert mode 1804. The collection of operation modes is shown as group 1801 and
the collection of profiles are shown as group 1802. In this embodiment, two profiles may be
implemented in the wearable device: owner profile 1805 and veterinarian/third-party profile
1806. Based on the selection of the operation mode, wearable device 1807 operates as
designated by the particulars of the operation mode. Finally, based on the designation in the
operation mode of what and when to upload content to the remote data management system, the
wearable device 1807 uploads content in accordance with the operation mode.
[0179] For instance, in the profile operation mode 1802, this operation mode (and optionally the
specific profile) identifies that content from the wearable device 1807 is to be uploaded to the
remote data management system 1808 in batches. Next, in the airplane operation mode 1803, as
all radio transmission functions are disabled while in the airplane operation mode 1803, the
content collected while in operation mode 1803 is stored in wearable device 1807 and
subsequently uploaded to remote data management system 1808 only when switched out of
airplane mode 1803. Further, when operating in the location alert operation mode 1804, content
information is uploaded to the remote data management system 1808. For instance, in one
example where the owner is attempting to locate the animal as soon as possible, the location
content may be uploaded on a continuous basis to the remote data management system 1808.
The data uploaded from the wearable device may include location information from a GPS
receiver sensor and/or triangulation information from received cell tower signal strengths and/or
IP addresses of Wi-Fi access points, merely storing a list of time stamped IP addresses, or the
like. The uploading of data may be real-time or may be batched. With respect to monitoring Wi
Fi access points, the wearable device 101 may keep track of the various access points
encountered over time and upload a list of those access points so as to provide a list of locations
(or approximate locations) visited throughout the day (or other interval) (thereby providing
breadcrumb information of where the wearable device has been throughout the day).
14655241 1

                                                    50
[0180] Figures 19A-19B show the order in which operation modes take precedence over
profiles based on the embodiment of Figure 18 in accordance with one or more aspects of the
disclosure. As used in Figures 19A-19B, the "switches" can be hardware switches, software
switches or a combination of both. A hardware switch may be a switch located locally on the
wearable device that permits selection of one of the operation modes described in Figure 18. A
software switch is a remotely operated command to the wearable device to shift into one of the
operation modes of Figure 18 and/or profiles. The software switch maybe operated by the
owner, a veterinarian, and or a third party. For instance, airport personnel may be included in the
group including the third-party where the airport personnel may be able to access the wearable
device to set it into the airplane operation mode 1803. The combination of hardware and
software switches permits a device to respond to either a hardware switch operation (actual
switch or a double tap of the device - sensed by the internal accelerometer) or a software switch
operation. For instance, external hardware switches may be located at one or more locations on
the wearable device 101 at, for instance, locations A-C on the wearable device 101 of Figure 5
or as part of collar/harness 402. Here, the hardware switches may be respective parts of clasp
505 at locations H and I and operated by locking together the parts of clasp 505.
[0181] Figure 19A shows a deprecated order in which an airplane mode switch 1901 has the
highest level of precedence. Next, a location alert switch 1902 has the second-highest level
precedence. Third, the lowest level of precedence is profiles in profile group 1903 including
owner profile 1904 and veterinarian/third-party profile 1905.
[0182] Figure 19B shows the different operation modes based on operation of the switches of
Figure 19A. First, if the airplane mode switch is on, then the wearable device operates in the
airplane mode 1907. If the airplane mode switch is off 1906, then the wearable device looks to
the state of the location alert switch. If the location alert switch is on, then the wearable device
operates in the location alert operation mode 1909. If the location alert switch is off 1908, then
the wearable device operates in one of the profile modes 1910 (for instance, in the owner profile
1911 or the veterinarian /third-party profile 1912).
[0183] Figure 20 shows an alternative embodiment with different profiles including profiles
replacing the operation modes of the embodiment of Figure 18 in accordance with one or more
aspects of the disclosure. Profiles 2001 include airplane profile 2004, location alert profile 2005,
owner profile 2002, and veterinarian/third-party profile 2003. The selected profile from profiles
14655241 1

                                                   51
2001 dictate how wearable device 2006 operates and uploads data to the remote data monitoring
system 2007 (similar to the operation mode/profiles of Figure 18).
[0184] Figures 21A-21B show the combination of different profiles of the embodiment of
Figure 20 with options of profile selection by one or more switches in accordance with one or
more aspects of the disclosure. Figures 21A-21B described profiles being designated by
hardware/software/combination switches (the switches having been described with respect to
Figures 19A-19B). In Figure 21A, the collection of profiles 2101 includes owner profile 2102,
veterinarian/third-party profile 2103, airplane mode profile 2104, and location alert profile 2105.
Figure 21B shows the collection of profiles 2110 with the airplane mode switch and the
locations mode switch designating at least some of the profiles. For instance, when airplane
mode switch 2112 is on, the wearable device operates in airplane mode profile 2113. When
airplane mode switch is off 2111, the location alert switch status is checked. If the location alert
switch is on 2115, the wearable device operates in the location alert profile 2118. If the location
alert switch is off 2114, the wearable device operates in one of the owner profile 2116 or the
veterinarian/third-party profile 2117 (as separately designated by the owner and/or
veterinarian/third-party).
[0185] Figure 22 shows an example of how profiles may be selected in the wearable device as
well as in the DMS in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure. Wearable device
2201 shown relative to DMS 2213. At step 2202, an initial profile is set for the wearable device
2201. In step 2203, it is determined whether a sensor or combination of sensors has exceeded
one or more thresholds as described herein. If yes, then the wearable device modifies its own
profile to change to a different profile or operation mode as shown in step 2204. Also, as shown
by the yes arrow extending down from step 2203, the derived events may be uploaded to the
DMS in step 2205, raw data may be uploaded to the DMS in batches as shown in step 2206, or
raw data may be continuously uploaded to the DMS in step 2207 depending on the new profile
or new operation mode. If no from step 2203, the derived events may be uploaded to the DMS
in step 2205, raw data may be uploaded to the DMS in batches as shown in step 2206, or raw
data may be continuously uploaded to the DMS in step 2207 depending on the current profile or
current operation mode.
[0186] Next, content from wearable device 2201 is received at the DMS 2213 at step 2208. In
step 2209, the data is stored (for instance, in a database in one or more servers with dynamic or
14655241 1

                                                  52
solid-state memory as shown by database 2210) and subsequently analyzed. If in step 2211, an
alert has been triggered from the analyzed data, then DMS 2213 instructs wearable device 2201
to change to a different profile or operation mode in accordance with the alert level determined
in step 2211. Alternatively, if no from step 2211, no alert has been determined and the DMS
2213 continues to monitor for content from wearable device 2201 in step 2208.
[0187] Figure 23 shows an example of how output from various sensors may be stored for an
interval of time and then discarded in accordance with one or more aspects of the disclosure.
Figure 23 shows the past history for signals from accelerometer 2301, light sensor 2302, and
sound sensor (microphone) 2303. In this example, older readings 2309 from accelerometer 2301
were below an accelerometer threshold level {Threshold(acc)}. However more recently, the
signal from the accelerometer rose to level 2308, which is above {Threshold(acc)}.
[0188] As described above, processor 100 may then evaluate previous readings from other
sensors. Previous values from light sensor 2302 are evaluated. Looking back in the recent
history of the values from light sensor 2302, the readings were originally at level 2311, which is
below the light threshold {Threshold(light)}. However, more recently, the light level rose to the
level at 2310. As this level at 2310 is above the light threshold {Threshold(light)}, the values
from the light sensor corroborate the event that may be have been detected by accelerometer
2301. With respect to sound level, older sound level readings were at level 2315, which were
below the sound threshold {Threshold(sound)}. More recently, the sound level rose to level
2314, which is above the sound threshold {Threshold(sound)}. Here, the output from the sound
sensor also corroborates event that may have been detected by accelerometer 2301.
[0189] With respect to both the light sensor 2302 and sound sensor 2303, an individual signal
value different from a maximum value above a threshold having been reached during a time
interval is less relevant than the signal having reached the threshold during the time window.
Stated differently, once it has been determined that a light signal is above the light threshold
{Threshold(light)} for sensor reading 2310, other readings between levels 2312 and 2313 are
not considered for this threshold analysis. Similarly, variants between sound level 2316 and
2317 are less relevant than the sound level 2314 having passed the sound threshold level
{Threshold(sound)} as the sound threshold has already been met.
14655241 1

                                                  53
[0190] Finally, Figure 23 shows data dump points 2305, 2306, and 2307 after which
insignificant signal readings are dumped from the memory of processor 100 and/or storage 105.
Interestingly, the data dump points 2305, 2306, and 2307 do not have to be at the same time
window from the present. Rather each may have its own separate window length during which
signal levels are maintained.
[0191] Figure 24 shows an example of different techniques for monitoring core temperature
including microwave radiometry and microwave thermometry in accordance with one or more
aspects of the disclosure. For instance, core temperature 2401 may be determined through
passive technologies including microwave radiometry 2402 in which energy from other sources
is used to determine core temperature. Also, active techniques including microwave
thermometry 2403 may be used to determine core temperature. For these two examples, separate
antennas may be used for ultra-wideband device (UWB) and the microwave
radiometry/thermography core temperature determination system as shown by state 2404.
Alternatively, a single antenna may be shared between the UWB and the core temperature
determination device. For example, one or more switches may be used to alternatively connect
the shared antenna to the UWB in the microwave radiometry/thermography core temperature
determination system as shown by state 2405.
[0192] As discussed above, the UWB antenna may emit a microburst of radiofrequency energy
which may propagate into the animal's body. The UWB antenna or another receiver may receive
RF energy reflected back to the antenna as a result of the microburst encountering variations in
biological tissue. These variations may occur because different tissue masses in an animal's
body may have different electrical properties, including dielectric permittivity. As the signal
propagates through a boundary between two types of tissue, the amount reflected may vary
based on the relative differences between the types of tissue at the boundary. The received
reflected signal may be recorded as data.
[0193] In some embodiments, the data received may be noisy for any one or more of a plurality
of reasons. For example, the UWB antenna and/or receiver may be incorrectly placed or on an
ill-fitting wearable device. The reflected signal may be difficult to detect or not accurate because
of interference. As another example, the animal may be moving, restless, in distress, or
recovering from one or more traumatic events (encounters with vehicles, strangers, or loud
14655241 1

                                                   54
sudden noises in an environment thought to be safe, such as a vacuum cleaner). Muscular or
other tissue movements may dominate and drown out the actual useful information signal.
[0194] Other phenomena may occur during deployment and operation of a UWB radar system.
For example, some animals may experience heart rate varability, rapid and large oscillations in
their heart rate. Although this variability is not harmful to the animal, it may make calculating a
heart rate difficult. Some animals may express a "bimodal" heart rate for a window of time.
Additionally, the frequency of transmission and reflection cycles may oversaturate the receiver
("bin saturation") that produces clipping at the high and low ends of the UWB range. Low heart
rates in conjunction with high respiratory rates may complicate the detection of either or both
rates, as one may be mistaken for the other.
[0195] One or more aspects of the disclosure relate to enhanced UWB operations to
accommodate issues created by hair/fur, movement and mobility, air gaps, the curvature
variations in necks of animals, and strap tightness (or closeness to the animal's skin).
[0196] For instance, the thickness and density of hair/fur, air gaps, and strap tightness pertain to
a greater variance in the number of sets of ranges that may be used over conventional UWB
systems (which generally require no air gap as direct skin contact is required). By increasing the
number of discrete ranges used by the UWB system (for instance, by stepwise increasing the
number of ranges (and possibly the overall range as well) the UWB radar may be modified to
accommodate a large variability in spacing between the antennas and the observed tissue.
[0197] Next, to accommodate for the range increase different approaches may be used
separately or in combination. For instance, the amplitude of the pulses may be increased to
accommodate a greater need for power. Also, the pulse repetition frequency (PRF) may also be
increased until an acceptable signal to noise ratio is obtained. Further, these two approaches may
be used in combination to provide a greater operation range of the UWB system while keeping
the system compact and portable.
[0198] Next, to reduce unwanted emissions, the UWB may be triggered only when a number of
other sensors/devices indicate that the firing of the radar is more likely than not to provide
acceptable results. For instance, the UWB may not fire until the accelerometer indicates that the
animal is moving below a given threshold (for instance, a threshold observed when the animal is
sleeping). Also, the UWB may not fire until a thermometer on the unit indicates that a
14655241 1

                                                 55
temperature facing the animal is above a threshold (for instance, a threshold being a temperature
when the device is proximate the animal's neck while the animal is resting).
[0199] Next, heart rate variability in animals (including dogs) is higher than that of humans. For
instance, a dog's heart rate may jump from 40 beats per minute to over 240 beats per minute in a
short period (permitting explosive bursts of emery). To capture (or more accurately, to keep up
with) this variability, the UWB system may include an adjustable window sampling size to
monitor heartbeats. For instance, at 40 BMP, a window larger than 1.5 seconds per beat may
accommodate that rate. However, at 240 BMP, the window needs to be closer to .25 seconds per
beat. Accordingly, the system may include an auto-ranging window that is cycled through
window sizes of .2 seconds through 2 seconds periodically, or even initially as the UWB is
active.
[0200] Further, to account for different neck sizes, the UWB antenna may include a wide angle
distribution pattern to accommodate the different sizes. Alternatively, different antennas may be
used for different size necks. For instance, smaller animals may need the wider distribution
antenna to accommodate a greater angle between different tissues being monitored while larger
breeds may use a narrow field of view antenna that is more narrowly focused to a particular
region. This may reduce interference from extraneous sources. Further, with additional antenna
elements, the antenna may be steered toward different selective tissues for monitoring.
[0201] Further modifications may include the use of different radar generation procedures (for
instance, using heterodyning processes) and/or the coding of pulses.
[0202] Another modification may include the use of one or more confidence metrics to
determine whether to accept, flag, or reject data (or a segment of data) for inclusion in further
processing or analysis. A confidence metric may be used to calculate the quality of a received
signal and/or data, as data which is noisy or otherwise incorrect may obfuscate or confuse
further analysis, calculation, and/or estimation by the wearable device, DMS, animal owner,
and/or veterinarian. The usage of confidence metrics may be performed by the DMS to improve
the accuracy and/or quality of reported measurements. Additionally or alternatively, confidence
metrics may be used by the wearable device. For example, the wearable device may use
confidence metrics to determine whether to store, keep, analyze and/or transmit data or a portion
14655241 1

                                                    56
of data. This may be helpful, for example to reduce the amount of data stored, kept, analyzed or
transmitted by the wearable device to another device, such as the base station.
[0203] Confidence metrics may be calculated for one or more variables in the time-domain
and/or one or more variables in the frequency-domain. For example, a data signal may be
received. This signal may then be split into one or more time segments each having a duration,
such as five or seven seconds. A time-domain confidence metric may be a difference between
the maximum and minimum amplitudes of the signal during a single time segment. If the
difference between the maximum and minimum amplitudes of the signal during the time
segment exceeds a threshold (either pre-determined or set by a user of the system), then the time
segment of data may be too noisy to use in a subsequent calculation. The segment of data may
therefore be discarded and/or flagged as lower-quality data. In some embodiments, one or more
segments of data flagged as lower-quality may still be used, for example if not enough segments
of data are received that are of sufficient quality.
[0204] Other time-domain confidence metrics may be, for example, the standard deviation of
the signal during a time segment; the power of the signal during a time segment (calculated by
the mean of the squares of each point of data during the time segment); checking for
discontinuities (calculated by dividing the maximum amplitude of the signal by the median of
the derivative of the signal); checking for consistency in the signal (for example, by examining
data points at fixed intervals within a time segment; computing the amplitude and/or standard
deviation for each fixed interval; and dividing the maximum amplitude and/or standard
deviation computed by the median amplitude and/or standard deviation for all fixed intervals in
the time segment); checking for "clipping" or oversaturation of the signal (for example, if the
signal is off-scale high or above a threshold value).
[0205] Confidence metrics may be in other domains, such as the frequency-domain. For
example, it may be easier to locate a vital sign in the frequency-domain instead of in the time
domain. Transforming the data from the time-domain to the frequency-domain may illustrate the
vital sign, such as heart rate or respiratory rate, or the components thereof. In some animals, the
vital sign may be comprised of one or more subcomponents. A confidence metric may be the
highest "peak" in the frequency-domain; this may reflect the heart rate or respiratory rate in the
time segment or in the data. Other frequency-domain confidence metrics may include the
spectral power of the data or a subset of the data, including the highest "peak" or another "peak"
14655241 1

                                                   57
in the data in the frequency-domain, the "peakedness" of the data, or the ratio of the power of a
frequency and/or bin divided by the average spectral power of the remaining frequencies and/or
other bins, which may include measurement of the kurtosis of the distribution across the
frequency-domain. This "peakedness" ratio may be calculated for all frequencies and/or bins, or
calculated for a subset of bins (e.g. the bin with the largest value). Another example of a
frequency-domain confidence metric may be the variance between frequency values and/or bin
values, such that the standard deviation of the most "peaked" bin or frequency is compared to
the standard deviation of the other frequencies or bins. This value may be weighted based on the
"peakedness" ratio.
[0206] The usage of one or more confidence metrics may be based on the type of underlying
data or metric sought to be analyzed. For example, if the data is measuring the respiratory rate of
an animal, it may not be appropriate to apply one or more confidence metrics designed for
improving the quality of data captured for heart-rate or cardiac rates of an animal.
[0207] Confidence metrics are not limited to the data being analyzed from a single sensor, but
may include analysis of the data and/or metadata from other or multiple sensors. For example, a
confidence metric may take into account the time of day, ambient temperature, amount of
ambient light, location, or the like in setting and/or adjusting the threshold of acceptable values.
For example, an animal at play outdoors basking in the warmth of a summer's day is expected to
have a higher respiratory or heart rate than an animal sleeping indoors on a chilly autumnal eve.
The confidence metric which takes into account heart rate or respiratory rate, or data input to or
derived therefrom, may have its threshold adjusted to address such variations.
[0208] FIG. 27 shows an exemplary method of using confidence metrics to calculate the quality
of data or a subset of data to be used in calculating a vital sign of an animal or other metric,
including reportable metrics. The method of FIG. 27 may be performed using one or more
devices in the system. For example, the method may be performed by the wearable device, the
DMS, a device external to the DMS, and/or the like.
[0209] In step 2701, the data is received. As discussed above, this may include receiving
reflected RF energy from an animal body, organ, or tissue and converting or translating the
reflected RF energy into recordable voltage or current measurements by the transceiver. The
data may be received or recorded at a sampling rate lower than the output rate of the sensor. For
14655241 1

                                                     58
example, the sensor may be able to record 1000 measurements per second (1 MHz), but the
sampling rate may be only 100 samples per second (100 Hz). Of course, other sensor rates
and/or sampling rates may be used.
[0210] In step 2703, it may be determined that there is enough data received to proceed with
further calculation. Additionally or alternatively, there may be enough data, but it is not yet time
to process the received data, for example because the processor is busy, the processor recently
calculated the vital sign, or the like. If there is not enough data or it is not yet time to process the
received data, the method may await the reception of enough data to proceed with calculation of
the vital sign or other metric, and/or await to proceed with calculation of the vital sign or other
metric. In other words, as seen in FIG. 27 (X03 - "No" branch) the method may loop, terminate,
return to step 2701, or the like until a sufficient quantity of data is received. If, however, there is
enough data (2703 - "Yes" branch), then the method may proceed to step 2705.
[0211] Fetching of data may occur in step 2705. The fetching may be of the entire set of data to
be processed, or may be a subset of data to be processed. The amount fetched may be dependent
on the type of vital sign to be calculated. For example, in some animals, the respiratory rate (that
is, the number of breaths taken by the animal per minute) is lower than the cardiac or heart rate
(that is, the number of heartbeats of the animal per minute). As the respiratory rate may be
lower, more data may be fetched to assess the respiratory rate than the heart rate. In some
embodiments, the amount fetched may be five seconds of data to calculate the heart rate, and
fifteen seconds of data to calculate the respiratory rate. In other embodiments, the amount
fetched may differ, such as seven seconds of data for calculating the heart rate, and seventeen
seconds of data for calculating the respiratory rate. More or less data may be used in further
embodiments.
[0212] In some embodiments, the entire data set may be fetched, and the data set may be
segmented into data segments. These segments may have the same or different sizes than those
discussed above (that is, five seconds per segment, seven seconds per segment, fifteen seconds
per segment, seventeen seconds per segment, or some other number of seconds per segment). In
some embodiments, data may be fetched and/or segregated so as to overlap with a previously
fetched data or segment.
14655241 1

                                                   59
[0213] In step 2707, preprocessing of the data may occur. For example, the data may be down
sampled and/or filtered as necessary. Filtering may include removing the mean of the signal, or
detrending the data or fetched data. Preprocessing may also include, in addition to or in the
alternative from detrending, windowing the data using one or more windows, apodization
functions, tapering functions or the like. This may include, for example, rectangular or triangular
windows, Welch windows, Parzen windows, Hamming windows, Hanning windows, or the like.
Windows may be defined based on the vital sign which is to be calculated and/or the animal for
which the vital sign is to be calculated. Data which falls outside the window may be removed or
reduced in magnitude. Preprocessing of the data may include truncating, either by beheadment
or curtailment of the data. For example, the first n seconds of data may be removed or data
points thereof may be reduced in magnitude. Additionally or alternatively, the last n seconds of
data may be removed or data points thereof may be reduced in magnitude. Preprocessing of the
data may include computing the autocorrelation of the data, either pre- or post-filtering of the
data. Preprocessing of the data may include decimating the data, either pre- or post-filtering of
the data. In step 2709, time-domain confidence metrics may be calculated from the data. As seen
in step 2709, this may occur both prior to and/or preprocessing of the data. In some
embodiments, application of confidence metrics to raw data may act to serve as a limiter on
unnecessary or unuseful preprocessing of the data. For example, if the amplitudes of all points
of the data or data segment are above or below a point of usefulness (or in other words, is above
or below a pre-determined or user-defined threshold), there may be limited value in further
processing or preprocessing of the data. The examined data or data segment may be discarded
and/or further processing or preprocessing of the data may be halted or reduced in priority. In
some embodiments, one or more confidence metrics may be calculated based on the raw data,
and one or more confidence metrics may be calculated based on the preprocessed data. In some
embodiments, the same one or more confidence metrics may be calculated both based on the
raw data and the preprocessed data.
[0214] As an example of a confidence metric that may indicate unnecessary or unuseful data,
the amplitude of the signal received may indicate that a motion artifact exists in the received RF
signal. For example, during the UWB transmission and reception cycle, the animal may have
shifted positions, either of its own volition (active and moving) or an involuntary action (asleep,
but moving while dreaming; in a vehicle). A large time-domain peak in amplitude in an
individual data segment may indicate that the motion occurred during the receipt of the sensor
data. The amount of useful information to glean from such a data segment may be minimal, and
14655241 1

                                                 60
further processing of the data segment may be unnecessary and/or of a lower priority than
another data segment.
[0215] In step 2711, the data may be optionally transformed from the time-domain to the
frequency-domain. This may be performed by application of one or more transformation
functions or algorithms, including the Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) function or the like. The
result of the transformation may be stored or held in memory. The transformation may not
destroy or alter the time-domain data.
[0216] In step 2713, one or more frequency-domain confidence metrics may be calculated for
the data that has been transformed from the time-domain to the frequency-domain. In some
embodiments, step 2713 may include the calculation of one or more time-domain confidence
metrics, regardless of whether any time-domain confidence metrics were calculated in step
2709. In other words, step 2709 may occur after step 2711, the transformation of data from time
domain or frequency-domain.
[0217] In step 2715, the one or more calculated time-domain confidence metrics and/or the one
or more calculated frequency-domain confidence metrics may be each examined and/or
compared to a threshold value. The threshold value may be based on the confidence metric
being examined. For example, the threshold value for one confidence metric may be one value,
and the threshold value for a second confidence metric may be a second value having a different
dimension (e.g. length, time, voltage, current, or the like). In step 2715, it may be determined
whether or not the segment of data is worth keeping, storing, analyzing, or transmitting. This
determination may be based on, for example, one or more of the time-domain confidence
metrics and/or one or more of the frequency-domain confidence metrics being above, below,
and/or within an acceptable range of the threshold. Step 2715 may include a prioritized
determination substep. For example, a first confidence metric may have an acceptable value, and
a second confidence metric may not have an acceptable value. If the first confidence metric has
a greater priority and/or "weight" in the determination step, the data segment may be accepted
despite the unacceptability of the data according to the second confidence metric. Alternatively,
if the second confidence metric has a greater priority and/or "weight" in the determination step,
then the data segment may not be accepted despite the acceptability of the data according to the
first confidence metric. In some embodiments, a "tiebreaker" confidence metric may be used.
14655241 1

                                                    61
[0218] In step 2717, if the data has been found acceptable ("Yes" branch of step X13), the data
may be stored, kept, analyzed, and/or transmitted. This may include flagging the data and/or
storing an indication associated with the data that indicates the data should be stored, kept,
analyzed, and/or transmitted (in other words, the actual operation to store, keep, analyze, or
transmit a particular data segment may not directly occur in step 2717, but rather as part of
asynchronously operating on a plurality of data segments.) If, however, the data has not been
found acceptable ("No" branch of step 2715), then the data may be handled appropriately and
not stored or not kept or not analyzed or not transmitted in step 2719. In some embodiments,
however, the data may be still stored, kept, analyzed, and/or transmitted, as there may remain
useful information in the data segment, although it may not be useful for calculation of the vital
sign and/or metric. For example, the data may be retained because it may indicate an error
condition occurring at either the wearable device or the DMS. As another example, the data may
be useful to develop and/or refine additional confidence metrics. Thus, not keeping the data may
include keeping the data, but marking, flagging, or otherwise indicating or associating the data
with such an indication, that the data is unacceptable for calculation of the vital sign and/or
metric. In some embodiments, this indication may signal that the data or data segment should
not be transmitted to another device using a first communication method or protocol (for
example, the cellular radio transceiver) when certain criteria are established (for example, the
cellular radio transceiver is operating off of a battery), but may be transmitted to another device
using a second communication method or protocol (for example, a wired connection) and/or
when the certain criteria are no longer present (for example, the cellular radio transceiver is
operating off of a connection to the mains power, as the wearable device is in a charging state).
[0219] In step 2721, it may be determined there is additional data or segments of data to
process. If yes, ("Yes" branch) the method may loop to step 2705 and fetch the additional data.
If no ("No" branch), the method may proceed to step 2723.
[0220] In step 2723, one or more vital signs or other reportable metrics may be located in and/or
computed from the time-domain data and/or the frequency-domain data. For example, where the
vital sign is heart rate or breathing rate, the highest "peak" in the transformed frequency-domain
data may be the heart rate or the breathing rate. Additional vital signs and/or other reportable
metrics may be calculated. In step 2723, this vital sign may be communicated or transmitted
from the calculating device and/or system to a monitoring and/or reporting system. For example,
if the vital sign is above or below a certain threshold, the wearable device and/or the DMS may
14655241 1

                                                  62
send a communication indicative of a notification, via zero, one, or more intermediate servers
and/or devices, such that another device such as a mobile device of the animal's owner or the
veterinarian receives information regarding the vital sign's deviation from an acceptable value.
[0221] Figures 25 and 26 show illustrative examples of an owner's user interface as displayable
on a computer or smart phone. The Owner Health & Wellness Dashboard allows the owner to
see in one place all trending information on the animal from sensor data and DMS derived data.
[0222] Figure 25 shows a display 2501 of various information and conditions of a monitored
animal in accordance with aspects of the disclosure. The display includes information drawn
from both the wearable device 101 as well as from content from the veterinarian. For instance,
information from the veterinarian includes the next scheduled appointment content 2502 and the
identification of what medications are expiring next and the expiration dates. This information
may help remind the user to keep the veterinarian appointment.
[0223] Next, the display 2501 includes content from the wearable device and/or the DMS in the
form of instantaneous vital signs/physiological signs were overall trends relevant to the animal.
For instance, display 2501 includes graphical indicators of activity 2505, sleep 2506, hydration
2507, diet 2508, stress 2509, core temperature 2510, weight 2511, heart rate 2512, and
respiration rate 2513. The following items relate to instantaneous vital signs/physiological signs
from the wearable device: core temperature 2510, heart rate 2512, and respiration rate 2513.
[0224] In contrast to the vital signs, the following items relate to wearable device-derived events
or DMS-derived events such that they incorporate content from different sensors and may
include tracking of health-related vital signs/physiological signs and/or activities over time:
activity 2505, sleep 2506, hydration 2507, diet 2508, stress 2509, and weight 2511.
[0225] For purposes of illustration, each of the graphical displays of these items is shown as a
dial with an arrow pivoting from one side of the dial to the other based on the state of the
displayed item (e.g., a green area indicating no concern, a yellow area indicating caution, and a
red area indicating concern for that individual item).
[0226] Figure 26 shows activity level for that particular animal in accordance with aspects of
the disclosure. The Owner Level Detail screen allows the owner to drill down on a specific item
from the dashboard and review goals, alerts, recommendations, and more detailed, long term
14655241 1

                                                 63
analyses information. For instance, the display 2601 of Figure 26 includes an identification of
the animal 2602, a current indicator 2603 for the detail screen (in this example, the activity of
the animal), and an alert message box 2604 identifying an alert determined by the wearable
device 101 and or the DMS 301 (in this example that the animal missed two consecutive days of
walks with an identification of the date and time of when the walks were missed). Next, the
display 2601 may further include recommendations in field 2605 to improve the health of the
animal (for instance, to resume daily walks). The display 2601 may include one or more goals as
set by the veterinarian, the owner, or the DMS 301. In this example, the goals are to walk 40
minutes per day, to keep the animal's weight below 80 pounds and to play 15 minutes. The
display 2601 may further include an identification of the alert thresholds in field 2608. In this
example, the alert thresholds are missing two days of a walk, a change in gait dropping 15%,
and an overall drop in activity of 25%.
[0227] Finally, a timeline of the displayed item of detail may be shown as content 2607. Here,
the timeline shows how the animal's activity level has changed over 12 weeks.
[0228] While the detailed screen 2601 of Figure 26 relates to activity, it is appreciated that
similar detail screens may be provided for other items identified in Figure 25 with similar
content including a graphical indication of the current status of that item, alerts,
recommendations, goals, alert thresholds, and timelines.
[0229] Although example embodiments are described above, the various features and steps may
be combined, divided, omitted, and/or augmented in any desired manner, depending on the
specific secure process desired. This patent should not be limited to the example embodiments
described, but rather should have its scope determined by the claims that follow.
14655241 1

                                                  64
CLAIMS:
1.       A wearable device for an animal comprising:
         a housing;
         an ultrawide-band (UWB) signal generator;
         a UWB antenna configured to output signals from the UWB signal generator;
         a receiver configured to receive reflected UWB signals; and
         a processor configured to adjust a dynamic window for heart rate monitoring based on
         processing of the received UWB signals.
2.       The device of claim 1, wherein the housing is configured to be worn around a neck of an
animal.
3.       The device of claim 1, wherein the dynamic window is adjusted based on a detection of a
heart rate determined from the received UWB signals.
4.       The device of claim 1, wherein the wearable device comprises an accelerometer, and
wherein the processor is configured to adjust the dynamic window for heart rate monitoring
based on an output of the accelerometer.
5.       The device of claim 4, wherein the UWB antenna is configured to not output signals
from the UWB signal generator based on the output of the accelerometer.
6.       The device of claim 1, further comprising:
         a storage device,
         wherein the processor is configured to store data indicative of the received UWB signals
in the storage device.
7.       The device of claim 6, wherein the processor is configured to retrieve data indicative of a
received UWB signal and calculate one or more confidence metrics based on the data.
8.       The device of claim 6, wherein the processor is configured to retrieve data indicative of a
received UWB signal and transform the data from a time-domain to a frequency-domain,
resulting in transformed data.
1AiZZ)A1  1

                                                   65
9.       The device of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to retrieve data indicative of a
received UWB signal and calculate one or more confidence metrics based on the transformed
data.
10.      The device of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to compare at least one of the
one or more confidence metrics to a threshold, and based on the comparison, store an indication
that the transformed data is to be not used.
11.      A method comprising:
         outputting, by a ultra-wide band (UWB) signal generator and via an antenna, an UWB
signal;
         receiving, by a receiver, a reflected UWB signals; and
         adjusting, by a processing device, a dynamic window for monitoring the heart rate of an
animal based on processing by the processing device of the received UWB signals.
12.      The method of claim 11, further comprising:
         monitoring the heart rate of the animal using the dynamic window; and
         transmitting the heart rate to a device remote from the antenna and the receiver.
13.      The method of claim 11, wherein the receiver and the antenna are located in a collar
worn on a body of the animal.
14.      The method of claim 11, further comprising:
         receiving, at the processing device, accelerometer data; and
         based on the accelerometer data, indicating by the processing device to the UWB signal
generator to discontinue outputting the UWB signal.
15.      The method of claim 11, wherein adjusting the dynamic window comprises:
         calculating at least one confidence metric based on data indicative of the received UWB
signal; and
         determining, by the processing device, whether to analyze the data indicative of the
received UWB signal.
16.      The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one confidence metric is calculated in a
time-domain.
1Ai,,)A1   1

                                                  66
17.      The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one confidence metric is calculated in a
frequency-domain.
18.      A system comprising:
         a wearable device for an animal comprising: a housing, a signal generator,
an antenna configured to output signals from the signal generator into a body of the animal, a
receiver configured to receive signals reflected by the body, a first processor, and a transmitter
configured to transmit data indicative of the received signals; and
         a base station comprising: a receiver configured to receive data indicative of the received
signals; and a second processor configured to monitor a heart rate based on the received data.
19.      The system of claim 18, wherein the second processor is configured to generate a display
comprising the received data indicative of the received data and the monitored heart rate.
20.      The system of claim 18, wherein the second processor is configured to calculate at least
one confidence metric based on the received data.
                                        i4c Innovations Inc.
                      Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                     SPRUSON & FERGUSON
1AACCiA1  1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
