                                          ABSTRACT
                          Improved Tactile, Stem, Sleeve & Method
        Tactile indicators are installed on a walking surface. The tactiles have a cap
portion and a stem. In use, the stem is inserted and secured in a hole in the walking
surface with the cap portion protruding above the walking surface to provide tactile
indication for visually impaired persons. The stem has an external surface that has a
plurality of mounds and/or parts of mounds to assist in the securement of the stem in
the hole.
                                           Figure 2C

          3 / 19
      1A
 100
         A
                          20
                     400A
  110              300A
300A                  21
         FIGURE 2A

                                                1
                           Improved Tactile, Stem, Sleeve & Method
Field of Invention
        The present invention relates exclusively to tactile indicators that are adapted to
be positioned, in use, on a walking surface in order to provide tactile and/or visual
indication to a visually-impaired person who walks on the walking surface.
        The invention also relates to a method of installing such tactile indicators on the
walking surface.
        The present invention is solely limited to the field of such tactile indicators that
are for visually-impaired people, and hence the specification and the scope of the
appended claims are not to be construed to cover any other type of article or method
that is unrelated to such tactile indicators for visually impaired persons.
Background
        Tactile ground surface indicators are protrusions that are located on ground
surfaces, or walking surfaces, on which visually-impaired people walk. Such tactile
indicator are found typically in and around buildings and stairs, or along sidewalks and
kerbs of roads. These tactile indicators provide indication to the visually-impaired people
of an upcoming obstruction or hazard which they will encounter as they continue to walk
in a particular direction.
        Tactile ground surface indicators can be located, for example, in the approach to
steps, edges of railway platforms, traffic crossings and ramps, and so forth.
        A visually-impaired person can use a walking cane to detect the tactile indicators,
or perhaps is able to see the tactile indicators using any limited vision capability. The
tactiles thus provide an indication to the visually-impaired person that the next steps
should be taken with caution, because of the presence of some obstacle or potential
hazard.
        In Australia, for example, the design of tactile indicators relate to Australian
Standard AS/NZS 1428.4:2009 ("the Australian Standard"), entitled "Design For Access
And Mobility. Part 4: Tactile Indicators". This Australian Standard defines the term

                                                  2
"Tactile Ground Surface Indicators" as - Areas of raised ground surface texture
treatment, designed to provide blind or vision-impaired pedestrians with warning and/or
directional orientation information. This is the definition used in this specification for
tactile indicators.
         These tactile indicators often appear as dots on the walking surface, since the
anchoring portion of the installed tactiles are under the surface, and hence not visible.
         In accompanying prior art Figure 1A, the tactile indicators 10 can have the
appearance of an ordered arrangement of dots on the walking surface 20.
         In the prior art, in order to create these arrangement of dots, each of the tactile
indicators is in the form of a short disc-like object, such as in Figure 1B.
         In a cross-sectional view of prior art Figure 1B, the tactile indicators have a cap
like appearance, comprising a stem 30 depending from a cap 10. During installation, the
stem 30 is inserted into a hole in the walking surface to secure the tactile indicator on
the surface.
Installation Problems In the Prior Art
         The tactile indicators are usually made of metal, stainless steel, polyurethane or
sometimes from stone, concrete or other suitable hard material, or a combination of
appropriate materials.
         In prior art Figure 1B, as part of the installation procedure of tactile indicators, a
hole 21 is drilled in the walking surface 20. Typically, the walking surface consists of
concrete, brick or stone, and other common materials used for making pavements and
walking surfaces.
         During the process of drilling hundreds of holes that are required for inserting the
stems of the tactile indicators, it is noted that the diameter of drill bits, used to create the
holes, gradually wear down during the process. Consequently, the holes created with a
new drill bit will have a slightly larger diameter compared to holes created progressively
with the same drill bit after it has been worn down during the process of creating many
holes. Merely as an example, the holes might start off being 8mm in diameter, and the
holes created by the worn-drill bit could be around 7.2mm in diameter. The workman,
drilling the holes, has to replace the drill bit several times during the course of a day of
drilling thousands of such holes.
         The stems of the tactile indicators, which are inserted into these holes, all start
off having a constant external diameter. Then, when the stems are inserted into the

                                                3
holes, the said variance in hole-diameters means that stems, which are inserted into the
smaller-diameter holes, will experience more abrasion from internal surfaces of the
hole, compared to stems that are inserted into the larger-diameter holes.
         In the instances when stems are inserted into the smaller-diameter holes, a
proportionately greater amount of the material of the stem surface would be abraded off
the surface of the stem, in order to enable the stem to fit into the smaller-diameter hole.
         As the stem is forced into the hole, the material from the stem can be abraded off
or sheared off the stem resulting in a residue of particulate or wear-material ("wear
material"). As the stem is forced into the hole, it is observed that the wear-material tends
to be pushed in the opposite direction, namely upwards and out of the hole, where it sits
underneath the cap. The presence of such wear-material, sitting underneath the cap,
may potentially interfere with the ability of the undersurface 11 of the cap to sit evenly
on the walking surface 20.
         Manufacterers of such tactile indicators are aware of this problem of stem
abrasion. In prior art Figure 1B, the known cap 10 of the known tactile indicators is
provided, on its undersurface 11, with a circular rebate 12 or circular trough 12 (not
drawn to scale). This circular rebate 12 is able to receive any residue of wear-material
resulting from abrasion of the stem as the wear-material is pushed out of the hole, when
the stem 30 is being pressed into the hole.
         The need to provide the rebate or trough 12 in the cap is something that can
increase the cost of manufacturing the tactile indicators in Figure 1B, since the trough
has to be created in the cap, for example, by an added step of milling.
         Also, the excess wear-material, produced in the manner described above, can
still hinder the tactile indicators from being seated properly in the hole, leading to the
possiblity of the undersurface of the cap resting unevenly on the walking surface.
         An object of the present invention is to overcome or ameliorate any one or more
of the problems in the prior art, or alternatively to provide an improved alternative.
         The references herein to and descriptions of prior proposals or products are not
intended to be, and are not to be construed as, statements or admissions of common
general knowledge in the art. In particular, the prior art discussion herein does not relate
to what is commonly or well known by the person skilled in the art, but assists in the
understanding of the present invention of which the identification of pertinent prior art
proposals is but one part.

                                                4
Summary of Invention
        According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a tactile
indicator adapted to be installed on a walking surface, the tactile indicator comprising:
        a cap portion; and
        a stem attachable to the cap portion so as to depend therefrom, the stem
adapted to be, in use, inserted and secured in a hole in the walking surface to thereby
secure the tactile indicator thereto with the cap portion protruding above the walking
surface to provide tactile indication for visually impaired persons who walk on the
walking surface;
        wherein the stem has a mound-supporting external surface that has thereon a
plurality of mounds and/or parts of mounds.
        In an exemplary embodiment, the tactile indicator is provided with a sleeve with
an external sleeve-surface, and the mound-supporting external surface is said external
sleeve-surface.
        Preferably, the mounds and/or parts of mounds are adapted, in use, to abut
internal surfaces of the hole to aid with securement of the stem in the hole.
        Preferably, the mounds are made of a material able to be, during the installation
of the tactile indicator, at least partly abraded by friction contact with internal surfaces of
the hole.
        In a preferred embodiment, the plurality of mounds and/or parts of mounds
generally resemble each other in shape. Alternatively, the plurality of mounds may
include mounds of a variety of two or more different shapes.
        In a preferred embodiment, all of the plurality of mounds are discrete mounds
and/or parts of mounds are discrete entities. Alternatively, some or all of the mounds
are arranged to overlap nearby mounds.
        Preferably, the plurality of mounds include mounds in the form of lumps.
        The plurality of mounds may be distributed on the external surface of the stem in
a regular arrangement. Alternatively, the plurality of mounds may be distributed on the
external surface of the stem in a random arrangement.
        In an exemplary embodiment, some or all of the plurality of mounds may be
provided with smaller-mounds located on the mounds.
        The stem may be formed integrally with the cap portion as a single-piece
construction. Alternatively, the stem may be separate from the cap portion, such that the

                                                5
stem and cap portion are attachable to one another prior to the stem being inserted in
the hole.
        The mound-supporting external surface may also provided with a plurality of
localised depressed regions.
        According to a second aspect of the present invention, there is provided a stem
adapted to be attached, in use, to a cap portion of a tactile indicator, such that the tactile
indicator, when assembled, comprises:
        a cap portion; and
        the stem attached to the cap portion so as to depend from the cap portion, the
stem adapted to be inserted and secured in a hole in the walking surface to thereby
secure the tactile indicator thereto with the cap portion protruding above the walking
surface to provide tactile indication for visually impaired persons who walk on the
walking surface;
        wherein the stem has a mound-supporting external surface that has thereon a
plurality of mounds and/or parts of mounds.
        According to a third aspect of the present invention, there is provided a sleeve
adapted to be fitted on a stem of a tactile indicator, such that the tactile indicator, when
assembled, comprises:
        a cap portion; and
        the sleeve fitted on a stem, and the stem attached to the cap portion so as to
depend from the cap portion, the stem and sleeve adapted to be inserted and secured
in a hole in the walking surface to thereby secure the tactile indicator thereto with the
cap portion protruding above the walking surface to provide tactile indication for visually
impaired persons who walk on the walking surface;
        wherein the sleeve has a mound-supporting external surface that has thereon a
plurality of mounds and/or parts of mounds.
        According to a fourth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method
of installing a tactile indicator on a walking surface, the tactile indicator comprising:
        a cap portion; and
        a stem attachable to the cap portion so as to depend therefrom, the stem
adapted to be inserted and secured in a hole in the walking surface to thereby secure

                                                6
the tactile indicator thereto with the cap portion protruding above the walking surface to
provide tactile indication for visually impaired persons who walk on the walking surface;
        the stem having an external surface that is provided with a plurality of mounds or
parts of mounds thereon;
        wherein the method includes the step of inserting the stem into the hole such that
parts of the plurality of mounds or parts of mounds on the stem are abraded as a result
of forcing the stem into the hole.
        According to a fifth aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method of
installing a tactile indicator on a walking surface, the tactile indicator comprising:
        a cap portion;
        a stem attachable to the cap portion so as to depend therefrom; and
        a sleeve adapted to be attached around the stem;
        the stem with the sleeve thereon being adapted to be inserted and secured in a
hole in the walking surface to thereby secure the tactile indicator thereto with the cap
portion protruding above the walking surface to provide tactile indication for visually
impaired persons who walk on the walking surface;
        the sleeve having an external surface that is provided with a plurality of mounds
or parts of mounds thereon;
        wherein the method includes the step of inserting the stem and sleeve into the
hole such that parts of the plurality of mounds or parts of mounds on the sleeve are
abraded as a result of forcing the stem and sleeve into the hole.
Drawings
         In order that the invention might be more fully understood, embodiments of the
invention will be described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying
drawings, in which:
         Prior Art Figure 1A is a plan view of tactile indicators arranged in a grid
arrangement on a walking surface;
         Prior Art Figure 1B is a cross-sectional, schematic, side view of a prior art tactile
indicator that has a rebate or circular trough for receiving wear-material;
         Figure 2A is a schematic, cross-sectional, side view of a tactile indicator
constructed in accorance with an embodiment of the present invention;
         Figure 2B is a schematic top view of the embodiment of Figure 2A;

                                               7
        Figure 2C is a side view of the embodiment of Figure 2A;
        Figure 3A is a schematic, side view of a further embodiment of the invention
showing a tactile indicator where the parts of mounds each have an asymmetrical
shape;
        Figure 4A is a schematic, perspective view of another embodiment of the
invention showing a tactile indicator that has a variety of differently-shaped mounds,
having mounds as well as parts of mounds;
        Figure 5A shows another embodiment in which some or all of the plurality of
mound-elements are provided with smaller-mounds located on some or all of the
mound-elements; and
        Figure 5B is a variant of the embodiment of Figure 5A, in which embodiment
some or all of the plurality of half-mound-elements are provided with smaller-mounds
located on some or all of the half-mound-elements.
        Figure 6 shows a rough schematic drawing, being a cross-sectional side view, of
a type of embodiment in which the mounds are located on a sleeve, where the sleeve is
fitted onto the stem of the tactile;
        Figure 7A is a first embodiment of a sleeve that has mounds on the surface of
the sleeve;
        Figure 7AA is a top view of the sleeve of Figure 7A showing the hollow cylindrical
interior that is adapted to receive a stem therein;
        Figure 7B is a second embodiment of a sleeve that has half-mounds or part of
mounds which are of asymmetrical shape on the surface of the sleeve;
        Figure 7C is a third embodiment of a sleeve that has small mounds on top of the
larger mounds that are on the surface of the sleeve;
        Figure 7D is a fourth embodiment of a sleeve that has small mounds on top of
the larger asymmetrical mounds that are on the surface of the sleeve;
        Figure 8A is a shaded side view of a further embodiment of a sleeve that, in
addition to mounds, is also provided with a plurality of localised depressed regions;
        Figure 8B is a perspective view of the sleeve of Figure 8A;
        Figure 8C is a top, plan view of the sleeve of Figure 8A; and
        Figure 8D is a side, cross-sectional, view of the sleeve of Figure 8A
        In some of the above diagrams, the stems or sleeves are illustrated as having
indefinite length, in that the articles may be manufactured to varying lengths, depending
on the requirement of the particular usage.

                                              8
        The Australian Standard defines certain proportions for the tactile indicators, and
also distance proportions between adjacent tactiles, however, the accompanying
drawings are not necessarily draw precisely to these standard dimensions nor to
precise scale, and are provided merely for illustration as examples.
Description
        Referring to the accompanying drawings, Figure 2A is a cross-sectional, side
view of an embodiment of a tactile indicator in the form of a surface tactile 1A. The
tactile 1A is adapted to be installed on a walking surface 20.
        The tactile 1A comprises a cap portion in the form of a circular indicator 100.
        The tactile 1A also comprises a stem in the form of a post 300A.
        In the embodiment, the post 300A is integrally formed with the circular indicator
100 so that the post 300A depends from the undersurface 110 of the circular indicator.
        In the embodiment of Figure 2A, the post 300A is made of solid steel, however,
in other modifications, the stem can be hollow.
        The post 300A is oriented preferably perpendicular to the undersurface of the
circular indicator 100.
        As part of the installation proecedure, the post 300A is adapted to be inserted
and secured in a hole 21 in the walking surface to thereby secure the tactile indicator
therein. When installed in this manner, the circular indicator 100 sits on top of, and
protrudes above the walking surface to provide tactile indication for visually impaired
persons who walk on the walking surface. When a person, with a visual impairment,
walks on the walking surface, the person is able to detect the presence of the circular
indicator 100, for example by use of a walking cane, because of its protrusion above the
walking surface.
        In the embodiment of Figure 2A, the post 300A is formed integrally with the
circular indicator 100 as a single-piece construction. In manufacture, the tactile 1A may
be cast as a single item, or may be milled from a single piece of steel. The stem may
also be welded onto the cap. Other manufacturing methods such as 3D printing may be
used to create the tactile 1A.
        Figure 2A is represented as a rough schematic, with the features not drawn to
scale, and in this drawing the end tip is merely represented roughly as a rectangular
cross section, whereas Figure 2C shows a modification where the end tip has a degree
of tapering.

                                               9
        In other modifications, the post 300A can be a manufactured as a separate item
from the circular indicator 100. In such a case, the post 300A and circular indicator 100
would be attachable to one another before the post 300A is inserted in the hole.
        For example, in another modification, the circular indicator can be provided with a
hole though which a modified post can be inserted. The modified indicator and post can
be shaped so that the circular indicator is held in place, after the modified post is
secured in the hole.
Mounds
        The stem has a mound-supporting external surface that is provided thereon with
a plurality of mounds and/or parts of mounds.
        In the embodiment of Figure 2A, the post 300A has an external surface that is
provided with a plurality of mounds, in the form of mound-elements 400A thereon. Thus,
the external surface acts as a mound-supporting external surface that is provided with a
plurality of mounds thereon.
        The notion of the mounds being supported on the external surface does not infer
that the mounds can be removed or detached from the external surface. In the
embodiment, the mound-elements are integrally formed as part of the external surface
of the post 300A.
        Figure 2A is drawn as a simplified schematic drawing to illustrate features of the
embodiment, and is not drawn to scale, and is a schematic diagram.
        Figure 2B is a schematic top view of the embodiment shown in Figure 2A.
        Figure 2C is a side view of an embodiment that has similar features to the
embodiment shown in Figure 2A.
        The plurality of mound-elements 400A are adapted, in use, to abut internal
surfaces 22 of the hole 21 to aid with securement of the post 300A in the hole.
        During installation, the post 300A is inserted into the hole. The radius of the hole
21 is preferably slightly smaller than the maximum radius of the post 300A, as
measured from the axis of the post to the outer surfaces of the outermost surfaces of
mound-elements 400A. The rationale for this is that the abutment of the mound
elements 400A against the internal surfaces 22 of the hole has a degree of friction fit.
        The mound-elements, in a sense, enable the post 300A to be fitted in a hole that
has a slightly larger diameter than the diameter of the surface tactile 1A, such that the

                                               10
act of inserting the stem into the hole, causes the mound-elements to be abraded, and,
as a result, creating a tight fit in the hole.
        As the post 300A of the surface tactile 1A is inserted into the hole, the outmost,
lateral parts of the mound-elements 400A abut and abrade against the internal surfaces
22 of the hole 21. The wear-material, that is abraded off the mound-elements 400A, will
tend to collect in between the gaps surrounding the mound-elements 400A. Also, a
small portion of the wear-material may trickle or fall down into the bottom of the hole.
Thus, the gaps between the mounds serves to avoid the wear-material being pushed up
and out of the hole. This is because the gaps, surrounding the mound-elements 400A,
act as a region that can accommodate the wear-material.
        The mound-elements 400A are made of the same material as the post 300A.
Preferably, the material from which at least the mound-elements 400A are made from is
a material that is adapted, during the installation, to be at least partly abraded by friction
contact with internal surfaces of the hole. Examples of such usable materials are
Polyurethane, Nylon and Polyvinyl chloride (PVC).
        The material, from which the mound-elements 400A are made, should not be so
hard as to be un-abradable. This is because, in a case where the stem is larger than the
hole diameter, the insertion of a post, made of un-abradable material, into the hole
could cause damage or fracture of the internal surfaces of the hole.
Mounds
        In the embodiment shown in Figure 2A to 2C, the plurality of mound-elements
400A generally resemble each other in shape. Whereas, in other modifications, the
plurality of mound-elements may include mound-elements of a variety of two or more
different mound-shapes.
        In the embodiments of Figures 2A and 2C, all of the plurality of mound-elements
400A are discrete mounds. In other words, a discrete mound means there is no overlap
between adjacent mound-elements 400. The same applies to embodiments that have
parts of mounds which do not overlap each other.
        In further modifications, however, some or all of the mound-elements are
arranged to overlap nearby mound-elements (not illustrated in the drawings).
        In the embodiments of Figures 2A and 2C, the mound-elements 400A are in the
form of lumps located on the peripheral, cylindrical outer surface of the post 300A. In

                                               11
these embodiments, in terms of shape, the mound-elements 400A are shaped as lumps
that somewhat resemble, by analogy, the contour of elongated halves of mango fruits.
         In the embodiments of Figures 2A and 2C, each of the mound-elements is a
generally discrete object which does not overlap with adjacent mounds. In other
modifications, the modified mound-elements can overlap each other, provided that each
the mounds maintain their own identity as mounds. The function of the mounds
elements is to provide spaces, surrounding the mound-elements, that can
accommodate wear material.
         In contrast to the concept of a mound of the present invention, the invention
specifically excludes those features that uniformly extend around the circumference of a
stem portion. Such physical features that extend uniformly around the circumference of
the stem do not fall within the scope of the word "mound", according to the present
invention in its broadest aspect. For example, a screw thread would not fall within the
definition of a mound, because the ridge of the thread extends entirely around the
circumference of the screw. As another example, a collar or flange, that encircles the
circumference, would not be regarded as a mound. Such non-mound features, that
uniformly circle the circumference, are not functionally the same as a mound. In
particular, when wear-material is abraded off the mounds, such uniform features, that
circle the circumference, would prevent the wear-material from dropping down to the
botton of the hole. In that instance, another negative result would be that wear-material
may collect in the gap between the stem and inner surface of the hole. The wear
material could be forced upwards and out of the hole. Moreover, such uniform features
that encircle the circumference could result in more wear-material being shorn off, in
comparison to the mounds which present less area of contact between the mounds and
the inner surface of the hole. Hence, the concept of a mound, found in this invention, is
that it does not, by internal definition, extend completely around the circumference of
the stem portion.
Modified Mounds
         Figure 3A is a side view of a further embodiment of a tactile indicator where the
mound-elements 400B each has an asymmetrical shape. The mound-elements are in
the form of a partial mound.
         By way of comparison, in Figure 2A, when the post 300A is oriented vertically, as
when it is installed, the lower part of the mound-elements 400A are curved upwards

                                                12
towards to form a dome that slopes from all sides. In contrast to that, in the further
embodiment of Figure 3A, the shape of the mound-elements 400B is not symmetrically.
Instead, the mound-elements 400B of Figure 3A comprise only the lower half of the
mound-elements 400A of the earlier embodiment of Figure 2A.
        The functional concept, of the embodiment in Figure 3A, is that it would be easier
to press the stem into the hole during installation, but it would be more difficult to
withdraw from the hole, due to the asymmetrical or unsymmetrical shape of the mound
elements 400B.
        In the side profile of Figure 3A, it can be seen that, when the stem is being forced
into the hole, the slope of the mound presents an inclined surface as the stem enters
the hole. Whereas, when there is an attempt to pull the stem out of the hole, the partial
domes act as serrations that hinder, to a degree, the withdrawal of the stem from the
hole.
Combination of Mound-Elements
        Figure 4A shows a perspective view of yet a further embodiment in which the
mounds of the stem include a combination of fully symmetrical mound-elements 400A,
as well as asymmetrical mound-elements 400B.
Mound-elements on Mound-elements
        Figure 5A shows another embodiment in which some or all of the plurality of
mounds 400C comprise smaller mounds 401 located on the outer surface of the larger
mound-elements 400C. An advantage of this modification, where the larger mound
elements 400C have smaller mound-elements 401 thereon, is that, when the stem is
inserted into a hole with a larger diameter, the outermost smaller mound-elements 401
are the first to be sheared off, before the main portion of the underlying larger mould
elements 400C may comes into direct contact with the side of the hole. A consequence
of the smaller mound-elements 401 being the first portion to be sheared is that less
wear-material is created during the initial shearing process. This embodimemnt is
therefore able to be fitted in a range of holes of varying diameter sizes.
        With regard to the embododiment in Figure 5A, it is noted that the size of the
smaller mounds, relative to the main mounds, is not restricted to the ratio that can be

                                               13
asceratined from this and other of the appended drawings, which are given as examples
only.
        In the embodiments of Figures 2C, 3A, 4A and 5A, the plurality of respective
mound-elements are distributed on the external surface of the post 300 in a regular
arrangement. However, there are numerous other possible variations of such regular
arrangements, such as an orthogonal grid, a diamond grid, or other discernible regular
pattern.
        Figure 5B shows another embodiment where the main asymetric mound
elements 400D are provided with smaller mound-elements 401 located on the extremity
of the main mound-elements 400D.
        In yet other modifications, the plurality of mound-elements may be distributed on
the external surface of the post 300 in a random, irregular arrangement with no
discernible pattern (not illustrated). For example, the mounds may be provided in a
random arrangement that resembles numerous pimples on a face where there is no
discernible regular pattern or grid of the arrangement of the mound-elements.
Dimensions of mounds
        The invention, in its broadest aspect, is not limited to the provision of mounds
having specific dimensions.
        Rather, in the embodiments, the mounds, and even the smaller mounds that are
on the mounds, are able to be sacrificially abraded when the stem is pushed into the
hole. The size and dimensions of the mounds are governed by the overall function of
the outermost part of the mound-elements being sacrificially abraded, while the rest of
the mound-element acts to hold the tactile securely in the hole.
        Some dimensions of mounds are given as follows, by way of example only: In
Figure 3A and 4A, the maximum height of the main mound is of the order of 0.4mm.
The word "height", in respect of a mound-element, means the furthest, lateral distance
of a point on the mound-element, measured from the base cylindrical surface of the
stem. In other words, the word height does not imply a distance in a vertical direction
with respect to earth's gravity, but rather refers to a height-distance that extends
laterally away from the side surface of the stem.
        In the embodiments of Figures 2A, 3A, 4A and 5A, all the mounds are of similar
lateral-height. However, in other modifications, a plurality of mound-elements can
include mounds of varying height. In such embodiments, some mounds can protrude to

                                                14
a height of around 0.2 to 0.4 mm beyond the lateral surface of the stem. The physical
dimensions are described by way of example only, and are not limiting on the invention
in its broadest aspect.
         In another modification, the mound-elements, that are closer to the cap, have a
greater height than the mounds that are closer to the tip. This creates a manner of
tapering towards the end of the stem, and is intended to facilitiate entry of the stem into
the hole.
Sleeve Embodiment
         In the embodiments described thus far, the plurality of mound-elements are
located on the post, however, in other further modified embodiments, the post includes
a sleeve with an external sleeve-surface, and the mound-supporting external surface is
located on said external sleeve-surface.
        The schematic diagram of Figure 6 illustrates an embodiment where the sleeve is
in the form of a sleeve portion 500 on which the plurality of mound-elements are located
on the external surface of the cylindrical sleeve portion 500. The mound-elements,
located on the sleeve portion 500 perform the same function as the mound-elements
located directly on the stem of earlier embodiments.
         Figure 7A is a first embodiment of a sleeve that has mounds 400A on the surface
of the sleeve. The description of the mound-elements on the sleeve of Figure 7A are
analogous to the description of such mound-elements 400A in the embodiment of
Figure 2C.
         Figure 7AA is a top view of the sleeve of Figure 7A showing the hollow cylindrical
interior 450 that is adapted to receive a stem therein.
         In Figure 7AA, the interior of the sleeve shows a smooth, inner cylindrical
surface, implying that the stem that is received therein would have a correspondingly
smooth, cylindrical outer surface. However, in other modifications, corresponding
surfaces of the stem and inner sleeve may be provided with shapes, configurations or
mechanisms that assist with the mutual engagement or connection of the sleeve and
stem. For example, in such modifications, the stem may be provided with keyways or
grooves that assist with engagement of the stem to the inner sleeve.
         Figure 7B is a second embodiment of a sleeve that has mounds 400B of
asymmetrical shape on the surface of the sleeve. The description of the mound-

                                               15
elements on the sleeve of Figure 7B are analogous to the description of such mound
elements 400B in the embodiment of Figure 3A.
        Figure 7C is a third embodiment of a sleeve that has small mounds on top of the
larger mounds that are on the surface of the sleeve. The description of the mound
elements on the sleeve of Figure 7C are analogous to the description of such mound
elements 400C, 401 in the embodiment of Figure 5A.
        Figure 7D is a fourth embodiment of a sleeve that has small mounds on top of
the larger asymmetrical mounds that are on the surface of the sleeve. The description of
the part mound-elements on the sleeve of Figure 7D are analogous to the description of
such asymmetrical, part mound-elements in the embodiment of Figure 5B that have
small mound-elements 401 on top of the main mound-elements 400D.
        The examples of sleeves in Figures 7A, 7B, 7C and 7D are adapted to fit onto
stems. (The stems are not shown in these diagrams. The diagrams here only show the
sleeves).
        For embodiments where the sleeve is provided with mound-elements, different
embodiments may be sold either in a form that includes (i) a full-assembly of such a
sleeve fitted on a stem of a tactile, or sold as (ii) a separate sleeve such that, before
installation in the ground, the sleeve is, at that time, fitted onto a stem of a tactile.
Mound-Elements & Depressed Regions
        A further embodiment is shown in Figures 8A to 8D. The design of the sleeve of
the tactile is able to accommodate being inserted into holes of different diameters, as
explained above, hence, in the further embodiment shown in Figures 8A to 8D, the
external surface of the cylindrical sleeve portion 500, in addition to a plurality of
mounds, is also provided with a plurality of localised depressed regions. These regions
are defined as being depressed relative to the level of the external surface of the
cylindrical sleeve portion 500
        These localised depressed regions are not limited to a particular shape. In the
embodiment of Figures 8A to 8D, the localised depressed regions are in the form of
shallow oval-shaped depressions 600. In other embodiments, these localised
depressed regions may be shallow circular-shaped depressions, for example only. In
yet other embodiments, the localised depressed regions may be of irregular shape, or a
variety of shapes and/or sizes.

                                                 16
        The shallow oval-shaped depressions 600, in a sense, assist with the post 300A
being fitted in a hole that has a smaller larger diameter than the diameter of the surface
sleeve, such that the act of inserting the stem and sleeve into the smaller hole, causes
the mound-elements as well as portions of the external surface of the cylindrical sleeve
portion 500 to be abraded. Thus, the provision of the shallow depressions 600 means
that there is less material to be abraded off when the stem and sleeve have to be fitted
into holes that are of slightly smaller diameter.
         In such embodiments having a plurality of localised depressed regions, the
variation of the plurality of mounds are as described above, and are not limited to a
particular shape of mound to accompany the plurality of localised depressed regions.
        The embodiment of Figures 8A to 8D has been described in terms of the
localised depressed regions being on the external surface of a sleeve, but in other
embodiments the localised depressed regions may also be on the external surface of
the stem itself.
Manufacture
         Embodiments of the tactiles can be manufactured by moulding, casting or
welding, depending on the material used for manufacture, however, embodiments may
be manufactured using other processes such as 3D printing that may be suitable for the
particular material. The invention in its broadest aspect is not limited to tactiles made
from a specific manufacturing method.
Terminology
         In this specification, no distinction should be made between referring to the inner
surface (singular) or inner surfaces (plural) of the single hole. It is regarded as a matter
of semantics whether one refers to the inner cylindrical part of the hole as having a
surface or having surfaces.
        Various embodiments of the feature of the stem have been described and
illustrated, however, the invention in its broadest aspect is not restricted to a particular
scale or proportion of the stem with respect to the cap. For example, the stem may be
shorter or longer than the examples given, and the cap can have dimenions that are
larger or smaller with respect to the ratio of its relationship to the size of the stem.

                                              17
        The reference to an external surface, having mound-elements, is not to be
construed such that the mound-elements are separate items from the external surface.
In other words, the mound-elements cannot be removed from the surface of the stem.
        In this specification, where the words comprise or comprises or derivatives
thereof are used in relation to elements, integers, steps or features, this is to indicate
that those elements, steps or features are present but it is not to be taken to preclude
the possibility of other elements, integers, steps or features being present.
        In the present specification, terms such as "surface", "component", "apparatus",
"means", "device" and "member" may refer to singular or plural items and are terms
intended to refer to a set of properties, functions or characteristics performed by one or
more items having one or more parts. It is envisaged that where a "surface",
"component", "apparatus", "means", "device" or "member" or similar term is described as
being a unitary object, then a functionally equivalent object having multiple components
is considered to fall within the scope of the term, and similarly, where a "component",
"apparatus", "assembly", "means", "device" or "member" is described as having multiple
items, a functionally equivalent but unitary object is also considered to fall within the
scope of the term, unless the contrary is expressly stated or the context requires
otherwise.
        Orientational terms used in the specification and claims such as vertical,
horizontal, top, bottom, upper and lower are to be interpreted as relational and are
based on the premise that embodiments of the tactile indicator will usually be
considered in an orientation as if it were installed on a flat walking surface, with the cap
portion being on the surface, and with the axis of the stem portion preferably, for most
cases, being perpendicular to the walking surface.
        The embodiments of the invention have been described by way of example only,
and modifications are possible within the scope of the appended claims which, as
mentioned at the outset, only relate solely and exclusively to the field of tactile indicators
that are provided on a surface to act as tactile and/or visual indications to a blind of
visually-impaired person who walks on the surface. The scope of the appended claims
specifically exclude any devices and methods that do not relate to such tactile indicators
for visually-impaired persons.

                                               18
THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1.      A tactile indicator adapted to be installed on a walking surface, the tactile
indicator comprising:
        a cap portion; and
        a stem attachable to the cap portion so as to depend therefrom, the stem
adapted to be, in use, inserted and secured in a hole in the walking surface to thereby
secure the tactile indicator thereto with the cap portion protruding above the walking
surface to provide tactile indication for visually impaired persons who walk on the
walking surface;
        wherein the stem has a mound-supporting external surface that has thereon a
plurality of mounds and/or parts of mounds.
2.      A tactile indicator of claim 1 wherein the tactile indicator is provided with a sleeve
with an external sleeve-surface, and the mound-supporting external surface is said
external sleeve-surface.
3.      A tactile indicator of claim 1 or 2 wherein the mounds and/or parts of mounds are
adapted, in use, to abut internal surfaces of the hole to aid with securement of the stem
in the hole.
4.      A tactile indicator of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the mounds are
made of a material able to be, during the installation of the tactile indicator, at least
partly abraded by friction contact with internal surfaces of the hole.
5.      A tactile indicator of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of mounds
and/or parts of mounds generally resemble each other in shape.
6.      A tactile indicator of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of mounds
include mounds of a variety of two or more different shapes.
7.      A tactile indicator of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein all of the plurality of
mounds are discrete mounds and/or parts of mounds are discrete entities.

                                               19
8.      A tactile indicator of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein some or all of the mounds
are arranged to overlap nearby mounds.
9.      A tactile indicator of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of
mounds include mounds in the form of lumps.
10.     A tactile indicator of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the plurality of mounds are
distributed on the external surface of the stem in a regular arrangement.
11.     A tactile indicator of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the plurality of mounds are
distributed on the external surface of the stem in a random arrangement.
12.     A tactile indicator of any one of the preceding claims, wherein some or all of the
plurality of mounds are provided with smaller-mounds located on the mounds.
13.     A tactile indicator of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the stem is formed
integrally with the cap portion as a single-piece construction.
14.     A tactile indicator of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the stem is separate from
the cap portion, and the stem and cap portion are attachable to one another prior to the
stem being inserted in the hole.
15.     A tactile indicator of any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein the mound-supporting
external surface is also provided with a plurality of localised depressed regions.
16.     A stem adapted to be attached, in use, to a cap portion of a tactile indicator, such
that the tactile indicator, when assembled, comprises:
        a cap portion; and
        the stem attached to the cap portion so as to depend from the cap portion, the
stem adapted to be inserted and secured in a hole in the walking surface to thereby
secure the tactile indicator thereto with the cap portion protruding above the walking
surface to provide tactile indication for visually impaired persons who walk on the
walking surface;
        wherein the stem has a mound-supporting external surface that has thereon a
plurality of mounds and/or parts of mounds.

                                               20
17.     A stem of claim 16 wherein the stem is in accordance with only the stem of any
one of claims 1 to 15 excluding the cap portion.
18.     A sleeve adapted to be fitted on a stem of a tactile indicator, such that the tactile
indicator, when assembled, comprises:
        a cap portion; and
        the sleeve fitted on a stem, and the stem attached to the cap portion so as to
depend from the cap portion, the stem and sleeve adapted to be inserted and secured
in a hole in the walking surface to thereby secure the tactile indicator thereto with the
cap portion protruding above the walking surface to provide tactile indication for visually
impaired persons who walk on the walking surface;
        wherein the sleeve has a mound-supporting external surface that has thereon a
plurality of mounds and/or parts of mounds.
19.     A sleeve of claim 18 wherein the mound-supporting external surface and the
plurality of mounds and/or parts of mounds thereon are in accordance with how those
features are defined in any one of claims 1 to 15 excluding the cap portion and stem.
20.     A method of installing a tactile indicator on a walking surface, the tactile indicator
comprising:
        a cap portion; and
        a stem attachable to the cap portion so as to depend therefrom, the stem
adapted to be inserted and secured in a hole in the walking surface to thereby secure
the tactile indicator thereto with the cap portion protruding above the walking surface to
provide tactile indication for visually impaired persons who walk on the walking surface;
        the stem having an external surface that is provided with a plurality of mounds or
parts of mounds thereon;
        wherein the method includes the step of inserting the stem into the hole such that
parts of the plurality of mounds or parts of mounds on the stem are abraded as a result
of forcing the stem into the hole.
21.     A method of claim 20 wherein the tactile indicator is in accordance with the
indicator defined in any one of claims 1 to 15.

                                              21
22.    A method of installing a tactile indicator on a walking surface, the tactile indicator
comprising:
       a cap portion;
       a stem attachable to the cap portion so as to depend therefrom; and
       a sleeve adapted to be attached around the stem;
       the stem with the sleeve thereon being adapted to be inserted and secured in a
hole in the walking surface to thereby secure the tactile indicator thereto with the cap
portion protruding above the walking surface to provide tactile indication for visually
impaired persons who walk on the walking surface;
       the sleeve having an external surface that is provided with a plurality of mounds
or parts of mounds thereon;
       wherein the method includes the step of inserting the stem and sleeve into the
hole such that parts of the plurality of mounds or parts of mounds on the sleeve are
abraded as a result of forcing the stem and sleeve into the hole.
23.    A method of claim 22 wherein the sleeve is in accordance with the sleeve defined
in any one of claims 18 to 19.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
