                                             ABSTRACT
A Combination Sponge and Balloon Flying Toy where the weight is 4 grams plus or minus 15% for
aerodynamic flight and can be either be solid or liquid. The balloon is partially inserted through the
centre of the sponge to form a catapult flying toy that dissipates energy upon impact with a solid
surface. The sponge is reusable wet or dry using water or a weight insert.

L-
     Editorial Note
       <removed-apn>
There are four pages of description only

                A COMBINATION SPONGE AND BALLOON FLYING TOY
    A combination weight and balloon toy is known within the industry where the elongated
    balloon is partially inserted through the weight so that two flaccid ends are visible on either
    side of the weight. The balloon is inflated so that air only fills one side of the weight. The
   weight prevents air from entering the other portion of the flaccid end of the balloon. The
5   inflated side is tied off and a catapult mechanism is now formed where the user can hold the
    weight or inflated portion of the balloon in one hand and the tip of the flaccid portion of the
    rubber balloon in the other. Stretching the point between the weight and tip of the flaccid
   portion of the balloon then releasing causes the combination weight and balloon flying toy to
   propel forward at speed. The tail of the elongated balloon acts as an aerodynamic rudder for
10 long distance flight. The problem with this original design was a real concern for safety. As
   the catapult force is considerable when the rubber balloon is stretched and released, the
   required weight for flight means that the impact with a solid object is dangerous to children
   and animals. It is this problem the inventor of A Combination Sponge and Balloon Flying
   Toy has sought to solve.
15 Replacing a weighted plastic projectile with a soft sponge means the impact is dissipated if
   children or animals are hit by the flying toy, however the sponge is now too light for the
   purpose of good flight. Therefore the inventor has moulded a sponge nose cone that fits over
   the inflated portion of the balloon and can be used either wet or dry in flight. The sponge can
   absorb the correct weight of water for aerodynamic flight to become a flying water bomb or
20 an insert weight can be included between the sponge and the balloon to the correct weight. In
   both cases, wet or dry energy is dissipated upon impact when the water or air is expelled.

   A Combination Sponge and Balloon Flying Toy is better understood when viewing the
   following drawings where:
   Figure 1a     Shows an isometric drawing of the wet and dry sponge.
           lb    Shows the end elevation of the wet and dry sponge.
5          lc    Shows the front elevation of the wet and dry sponge.
   Figure 2      Shows a combination flaccid sponge and balloon flying toy.
   Figure 3      Shows a combination inflated sponge and balloon flying toy.
   Figure 4      Shows a combination stretched sponge and balloon flying toy.
   Figure 5      Shows a combination impacted sponge and balloon flying toy.
10 In Figure la  A moulded sponge piece is shown that has an aperture to form fit an elongated
                  balloon.
   Figure lb     An end elevation of the sponge shows the aperture form fit together with a
                 form fit positon for an optional weight insert.
15 Figure Ic     The front elevation of the sponge shows the cross cuts in the sponge that can
                 open and close around a flaccid elongated balloon.
   Figure 2      The flaccid balloon is inserted via the open aperture end through the cross cut
                 sponge so that both ends are approximately equal on both sides.

   Figure 3         The Combination Sponge and Balloon Flying Toy is inflated and tied off at its
                    end with the sponge weight separating the air in the balloon and closed off at
                    the cross section cuts on the sponge.
   Figure 4         The tip of the flaccid end of the balloon is held in one hand and the sponge
5                   weight in the other. It is stretched to provide a catapult mechanism upon
                    release.
   Figure 5         The Combination Sponge and Balloon Flying Toy is shown impacting on a
                    solid object expelling water or air to dissipate energy.
   When the preferred optional weight piece of 4 grams plus or minus 15% is inserted into the
10 moulded sponge a desired aerodynamic performance is achieved. If the weight is outside this
   parameter the weight is either too heavy or too light causing the Combination Sponge and
   Balloon Flying Toy to fall short of its flight path potential. The optional wet version
   moulded sponge piece is designed to carry the same weight by water as the optional weight
   insert. When the Combination Sponge and Balloon Flying Toy, wet or dry, is stretched and
15 catapulted to an impact point the energy within the weighted projectile is dissipated via air or
   water from the sponge.
   The sponge 1 is moulded to form fit the inflated balloon 6 into an aperture 2. The flaccid
   balloon 5 is inserted through aperture 2 and cross cut 4 sponge 1. Optional fixed weight 3a or
   water 3b fills the sponge 1 to form the desired weight parameter of 4 grams plus or minus
20 15% for an aerodynamic flight. The flaccid balloon 5 is inflated 6 and tied off 6b. The tip 7
   of the flaccid balloon 5 is held and stretched 8 between the sponge 1 and tip 7 to produce a

  Combination Sponge 1 and Balloon 6 Flying Toy. Upon release of the tip 7 and the sponge I
  the combination sponge I and balloon 6 catapults in the direction of tip 7 and sponge 1 with
  the balloon 6 acting as an aerodynamic rudder in flight. Upon impact 9a with a solid object
  9b, the air or water 3b within the sponge 1 is expelled releasing energy 10 away from sponge
5 1, weight 3a or water 3b. The sponge 1 can be refilled with water 3b for further catapult
  flying fun.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

                              CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION
    1) A Combination Sponge and Balloon Flying Toy where the weight is 4 grams plus or
          minus 15% for aerodynamic flight and can be either solid or liquid.
    2) As in Claim I where the balloon is partially inserted through the centre of the sponge
          to form a catapult flying toy that dissipates energy upon impact with a solid surface.
    3) As in Claim 1 and 2 where the sponge is reusable, wet or dry using water or a weight
          insert.
                      tt
      ...       .....                                           6th November 2017
Peter Alan Fish

<removed-apn> 15
           <removed-date>

<removed-apn> 15
           <removed-date>

<removed-apn> 15
           <removed-date>

<removed-apn> 15
           <removed-date>

<removed-apn> 15
           <removed-date>

