ABSTRACT
Emotional composition characterised in that it comprises:
          (a) clay; and
          (b) a biological sample from a subject, wherein said biological sample is dry.

      CLAY-BASED EMOTIONAL COMPOSITION TO BE USED AS A RELIQUARY
   [0001] The present invention relates to a composition comprising clay and a sample of
          biological material of human, animal or vegetable origin. Moreover, the
 5        invention relates to the use of said composition for manufacturing an emotional
          or commemorative object, or a reliquary.
   [0002] The purpose of the composition of the invention is to create an emotional bond
          between an object comprising said composition and the user who acquires it.
10 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
   [0003] Currently, there are different products designed for paying tribute and
          remembering living beings, either persons or pets, especially when they have
          passed away. Said products are traditionally created using hair, teeth and other
15        parts or tissues of the loved one that is to be remembered.
   [0004] However, thus far no compositions have been developed the basis whereof is
          the "essence" of the loved one in different forms or presentations.
20 DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   [0005] The present invention provides a composition that comprises a mixture of at
          least one clay and a biological sample from a subject, alive or dead, wherein
          said biological sample is dry. The purpose of said composition is to
25        manufacture an emotional object or reliquary.
   [0006] The gained advantage of using the emotional composition of the present
          invention as compared to the rest of the compositions described in the prior art
          is its customisability and the homogeneous appearance of both the composition
30        and the object formed from         said composition,    including by means of
          compression. Another advantage is the preservation of the biological material
          from the subject, alive or dead, that is part of the composition, which generates
          an emotional bond between the aforementioned subject and the person who
          wears or owns said emotional composition.
35
                                               1

   [0007] Therefore, a first aspect of the invention relates to an emotional composition
          characterised in that it comprises:
          a clay; and
          a biological sample from a subject, wherein said biological sample is dry.
 5
   [0008] In a preferred embodiment of the invention, the subject is a live subject.
   [0009] In another preferred embodiment of the invention, the subject is a dead or
          deceased subject.
10
   [0010] In a preferred embodiment of the emotional             composition, the latter is
          characterised in that the clay has a particle size of less than 0.02 millimetres.
          This preferred embodiment is suitable for obtaining a suitable composition with
          optimal particle sizes to be used as a 3D printer ink, since, with these particle
15        sizes, the composition of the reliquary is optimised for extrusion at pressures of
          4 bars from the pressurised chamber of a 3D printer.
   [0011] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the clay is selected from the list that comprises: white clay, calcareous
20        earthenware paste, dolomite, feldspar, kaolinite, halloysite, illite, chlorite,
          vermiculite, montmorillonite, sepiolite-palygorskite and any combination thereof.
   [0012] In a more preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the clay is white clay.
25
   [0013] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the biological sample is selected from the following list: micronised hair,
          micronised    tissue,   micronised   cornea,   tissue from    micronised   cornea,
          micronised nails, micronised teeth, lyophilised DNA-silica and non-lyophilised
30        DNA.
   [0014] In a more preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the biological sample is micronised hair.
35 [0015] In  another, more preferred       embodiment,      the emotional   composition is
          characterised in that the biological sample is lyophilised DNA-silica.
                                                9

   [0016] In  another, more preferred       embodiment,    the emotional   composition is
          characterised in that the biological sample is non-lyophilised DNA.
   [0017] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
 5        that the weight percentage of the clay ranges between 90% and 95% with
          respect to the final composition.
   [0018] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the weight percentage of the biological sample ranges between 5% and
10        10% with respect to the final composition.
   [0019] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that said dead subject is a human being or an animal.
15 [0020] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that this composition is baked, is in solid form and further comprises an outer
          layer (c) of glaze, wherein said outer layer of glaze is suitable for using the
          composition as a ceramic element or figure, or a three-dimensional figure or
          element obtained by means of 3D printing. This glaze is added in order for the
20        pores generated during said baking process to be occluded with said glaze,
          which provides uniformity and rigidity to the final ceramic element or figure, or
          the three-dimensional figure or element obtained by means of 3D printing. This
          glaze is added following baking of the emotional composition in a conventional
          oven at a temperature ranging between 8000C and 9000C, and prior to a
25        second baking in a conventional oven at a temperature ranging between
          10000C and 10600C.
   [0021] In an even more preferred embodiment of the composition, wherein the layer of
          glaze is a resin selected from the following list: epoxy resin, photosensitive
30        resin or any combination thereof.
   [0022] In another preferred embodiment, the emotional composition is characterised in
          that the particle size of the clay with respect to the size of the emotional
          biological sample is such that it prevents large pores from being generated in
35        the structure, which minimises the fragility of the ceramic object and achieves

          suitable compaction of the ceramic object containing the emotional biological
          sample, thereby preventing the delamination or breakage thereof.
   [0023] Another aspect of the present invention relates to an element or figure that
 5        comprises a composition according to the description of the present invention.
   [0024] Another aspect of the present invention relates to an element or figure that
          comprises a composition comprising an outer layer of glaze, preferably a resin
          selected from the following list: epoxy resin, photosensitive resin or any
10        combination thereof, and which is mounted on a support.
   [0025] A preferred embodiment of the present invention is the element or figure,
          wherein said element or figure is three-dimensional.
15 [0026] Another aspect of the emotional composition of the present invention is the use
          thereof as ink for a 3D printer, in order to obtain a three-dimensional element or
          figure.
   [0027] Preferably, the three-dimensional element or figure is a reliquary.
20
   [0028] Another aspect of the emotional composition of the present invention is the use
          thereof as a ceramic element or figure.
   [0029] Another aspect of the emotional composition of the present invention is the use
25        thereof as a reliquary.
   [0030] A more preferred embodiment is the use of the already-glazed three
          dimensional element or figure, or ceramic figure, mounted on the corresponding
          supports.
30 [0031] In the present invention, "emotional composition" is understood to mean any
          composition that comprises an isolated biological sample from a living or dead
          (deceased) subject.
   [0032] In the present invention, "biological sample" is understood to mean any wet or
35        dry sample of biological material obtained from limbs or parts of limbs, tissues,
          hair, nails, teeth, DNA or lyophilised DNA, of any human being or animal, or
                                                Ai

          vegetable material, wherein said human, animal or vegetable may be alive or
          dead. This biological sample is dry and is ground to a micrometric size. This
          micronisation may be performed by means of a cryogenic mill; this process is
          advantageous since, given the organic characteristics of the sample, it is an
 5        affordable, profitable way to obtain the base of the composition of the invention
          and the final object with suitable characteristics in terms of size and
          appearance.
   [0033] In the present invention, "subject" is understood to mean a human being, an
10        animal or a vegetable.
   [0034] In the present invention, "lyophilised DNA-silica" is understood to mean any
          biological sample wherefrom the DNA is extracted by means of techniques
          known to persons skilled in the art, and which is subsequently subjected to a
15        process of lyophilisation in silica.
   [0035] In the present invention, "clay" is understood to mean any particle or fragment
          of a phyllosilicate or any other agglomerating mineral with a particle size of less
          than 0.002 millimetres.
20
   [0036] In the present invention, "phyllosilicate" is understood to mean a sub-class of
          silicates, which     includes     minerals that are  common      in very diverse
          environments and have as a common feature a leafy (phyllon = leaf) or flaky
          habit arising from the existence of a perfect basal exfoliation. This is caused by
25        the presence in its structure of infinite-dimensional tetrahedral layers in two
          directions of space. The chemical formula for these compounds always
          contains the (Si 2 O5 2-), anion.
   [0037] Throughout the description and the claims, the word "comprises" and variants
30        thereof are not intended to exclude other technical characteristics, additives,
          components or steps. For persons skilled in the art, other objects, advantages
          and characteristics of the invention will arise, partly from the description and
          partly from the implementation of the invention. The following examples and
          figures are provided for illustrative purposes, and are not intended to limit the
35        scope of the present invention.

   PREFERRED EMBODIMENT OF THE INVENTION
   [0038] Below we provide a detailed description of a preferred embodiment of the
          object of the present invention.
 5
   [0039] Preparation of a figure made of clay and hair obtained by means of 3D printing
          and subsequent glazing.
   [0040] In order for the composition to have a suitable consistency, 30 g of white clay
10        must be mixed with alcohol in an approximate proportion of 5%, in order to
          obtain a suitable plastic texture for the additive manufacturing process. This
          texture in neither too dense nor too liquid. This mixture is introduced into a
          tube.
15 [0041] On the other hand, the micronised hair is introduced into an ancillary tube in a
          proportion of 10% of the total mass of clay. The mass of clay and the hair are
          introduced into the syringe designed for this purpose and both components are
          mixed using a blender.
20 [0042] Subsequently, the mixture of hair and clay is introduced into the tube in order to
          perform the printing, and the piece is made on the corresponding glass base.
          Once the printing is completed, the piece is allowed to dry for approximately 8
          12 h.
25 [0043] When the piece is completely dry, the first baking is performed, which takes
          about 15 h; the maximum temperature reached in this first baking is 850'C.
   [0044] The piece is glazed, with the aid of a paint brush, by coating the entire surface
          thereof, and a second baking is performed, wherein the glaze melts onto the
30        surface of the clay. This process takes 12 h and reaches a maximum
          temperature of 1030'C.
   [0045] Finally, the already-glazed piece is mounted on the corresponding supports.

                                             CLAIMS
   1. Emotional composition characterised in that it comprises:
               (a) clay; and
 5             (b) a biological sample from a subject, wherein said biological sample is
                   dry.
   2. Composition according to claim 1, wherein the subject is a live subject.
10 3. Composition according to claim 1, wherein the subject is a dead subject.
   4. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the clay is selected from the
   list that comprises: white clay, calcareous earthenware paste, dolomite, feldspar,
   kaolinite, halloysite, illite, chlorite, vermiculite, montmorillonite, sepiolite-palygorskite
15 and any combination thereof.
   5. Composition according to claim 4, wherein the clay is white clay.
   6. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the biological sample is
20 selected from micronised hair, micronised tissue, micronised cornea, tissue from
   micronised cornea, micronised nails, micronised teeth, lyophilised DNA-silica and non
   lyophilised DNA, or micronised vegetable tissue.
   7. Composition according to claim 6, wherein the biological sample is micronised hair.
25
   8. Composition according to claim 6, wherein the biological sample is lyophilised DNA
   silica.
   9. Composition according to claim 6, wherein the biological sample is non-lyophilised
30 DNA.
   10. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 9, wherein the weight percentage of
   the clay ranges between 90% and 95% with respect to the final composition.
35 11. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the weight percentage of
   the biological sample ranges between 5% and 10% by weight with respect to the final
   composition.
                                                  7

   12. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 11, wherein the subject is a human
   being or an animal.
 5 13. Composition according to any of claims 1 to 12, wherein said composition is baked,
   is in solid form and further comprises an outer layer of glaze.
   14. Composition according to claim 13, wherein the layer of glaze is a resin selected
   from the following list: epoxy resin, photosensitive resin or any combination thereof.
10
   15. Element or figure that comprises a composition according to any of claims 1 to 14.
   16. Element or figure that comprises a composition according to any of claims 13 or
   14, and is crimped on a support.
15
   17. Element or figure according to any of claims 15 or 16, wherein the element or
   figure is three-dimensional.
   18. Use of the composition according to any of claims 1 to 12, as ink for a 3D printer, in
20 order to obtain a three-dimensional element or figure.
   19. Use according to claim 18, wherein the three-dimensional element or figure is a
   reliquary.
25 20. Use of the composition according to any of claims 1 to 14, as a ceramic element or
   figure.
   21. Use of the disclosed composition according to claim 20 as a reliquary.
30 22. Use according to any of claims 18 or 20, wherein the already-glazed three
   dimensional element or figure, or ceramic figure, is crimped on the corresponding
   supports.
                                                8

