                                                     48
                                                ABSTRACT
  The invention is directed to glasses for viewing an image displayed in a set of narrowband
  wavelengths. The glasses may be 3D viewing glasses. The glasses comprises lens filters configured to
5 pass the set of narrowband wavelengths. Spectral properties of the filters are shifted towards longer
  wavelengths relative to the set of narrowband wavelengths.
  The invention is also directed towards a 3D venue and a 3D system.

            1/15
1120
            1140      1130
                 1110
       1100
     FIG 1A

                                                   -1
                      System for 3D Image Projections and Viewing
                                        Related Applications
            This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
   <removed-apn>5, which is in turn divided from Australian Patent Application No. 2012207050,
 5 the entire contents of all parent applications, are incorporated herein by reference.
                                           Copyright Notice
            A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject
   to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction
   by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure, as it appears in the Patent and
10 Trademark Office patent file or records, but otherwise reserves all copyright rights
   whatsoever.
                                            Technical Field
            The present invention relates viewing systems and products for projecting and
   viewing spectrally separated 3-Dimensional (3D) images. The invention is also related to
15 viewing systems used in a Digital Cinema (D-Cinema) Theatre and improves current
   methods for projecting and viewing a 3D stereoscopic movie.
                                           Background Art
            Methods for 3D stereoscopic projection include Anaglyph, Linear Polarization,
   Circular Polarization, Shutter Glasses, and Spectral Separation. Anaglyph is the oldest
20 technology, and provides left/right eye separation by filtering the light through a two color
   filter, commonly red for one eye, and cyan for the other eye. At the projector, the left eye
   image is (commonly) filtered through a red filter, and the right image filtered through a cyan
   filter. The eyewear includes, for example, a red filter for the left eye, and a cyan filter for the
   right eye. This method works best for black and white original images, and is not well suited
25 for color images.
            Linear Polarization 3D provides separation at the projector by filtering the left eye
   through a linear polarizer (commonly) oriented vertically, and filtering the right eye image
   through a linear polarizer oriented horizontally. The eyewear includes a vertically" oriented
   linear polarizer for the left eye and a horizontally oriented polarizer for the right eye. The

                                                    -2
   projection screen must be of the polarization preserving type, commonly referred to as a
   "silver screen" because of its distinctive color. Linear Polarization allows a full color image
   to be displayed with little color distortion. It has several problems, these include the need for
   a silver screen which is expensive, fragile, and not uniform. Another problem is that the
 5 viewer must keep his head oriented vertically to avoid crosstalk from one eye to another.
            Circular Polarization 3D was invented to address the problem of requiring the viewer
   to keep his head oriented vertically. Circular Polarization provides separation at the projector
   by filtering the left eye image through a (commonly) left handed circular polarizer, and
   filtering the right eye image through a right handed circular polarizer. The eyewear includes
10 a left handed circular polarizer for the left eye and a right handed circular polarizer for the
   right eye. A silver screen is also needed for this approach.
            Shutter Glasses provides separation by multiplexing the left and right images in time.
   A filter for separation at the projector is not required. The eyewear includes Shutter Glasses.
   These are active glasses that electronically shutter the lens in synchrony with the projector
15 frame rate. The left eye image is first displayed, followed by the right eye image etc. Since
   having a direct wired connection to the Glasses in a theatre is impractical, a wireless or
   infrared signaling method is used to provide a timing reference for the left/right eye
   shuttering. This method requires an IR or RF transmitter in the auditorium. The Shutter
   Glasses are expensive and hard to clean, require batteries that must be frequently replaced,
20 and are limited in their switching rate. Shutter glasses are only practical for use with D
   Cinema or other electronic projection systems since very few film projectors provide the
   signal required to synchronize the shutter glasses with the frame rate. The method does not
   require a silver screen.
            Spectral Separation provides separation at the projector by filtering the left and right
25 eye spectrally. The system differs from anaglyph in that the filters for the left and right eye
   each pass a portion of the red, green, and blue spectrum, providing for a full color image.
   The band pass spectrum of the left eye filter is complementary to the band pass spectrum of
   the right eye filter. The eyewear includes filters with the same general spectral characteristics
   as are used in the projector. While this method provides a full color image, it requires color
30 compensation to make the colors in the left and right eye match the colors that were present

                                                  -3
   in the original image, and there is a small reduction in the color gamut compared to the gamut
   of the projector.
            All of the above methods for providing left/right eye separation for a 3D
   Stereoscopic presentation can be used with either two projectors (one for the left eye and
 5 one for the right eye), or may be used with a single D-Cinema projector system. In the dual
   projection system, the projection filter is usually static, and is located in front of the
   projection lens. In a single D-Cinema projector system, the left and right images are time
   multiplexed. Except for the Shutter Glasses case where no projection filters are required, this
   means that the projection filters must change at the L/R multiplex frequency. This can be
10 done with either a filter wheel in the projector synchronized to the multiplex frequency, or
   with an electronically switched filter.
                                      Summary of the Invention
            The present inventors have realized the need for improvements in spectrally
   separated viewing devices and systems. Embodiments of the invention provides several
15 techniques to remove and compensate for blue shift that occurs when viewing images
   through filters at off-axis (other than normal) angles. The blue shift is undesirable because
   it can result in crosstalk between left and right images in a 3D image presentation.
            The present inventors have also realized the need for improvements in spectral
   separation filters, and particularly those used in 3D D-Cinema applications. One problem
20 realized is that typical 3-D projection systems have low luminance efficiency in that color
   spaces, color gamut, and effective brightness are inadequate. Another problem realized is
   that imbalance between luminance levels in channels of 3D projections decreases luminal
   efficiency. Accordingly, as described in more detail below, embodiments of the present
   invention also provide techniques to increase the color space and luminal efficiency of
25 projected images that may be used alone or in combination with blue shift compensation
   techniques.
            According to one aspect of the invention, there is provided glasses for viewing 3D
   images, the glasses comprising lenses, each lens comprising a filter, the filters configured to
   pass a plurality of light wavelengths intended to carry the 3D images, and wherein spectral
30 properties of the filters vary from one location to another location of the lenses.

                                                  -4
           The spectral properties of the filters may be different at an edge of the lenses
   compared to a central area of the lenses. In particular, the spectral properties may be red
   shifted at the edge of the lenses compared to a central area of the lenses. The spectral
   properties may shift toward longer wavelengths as a lens is traversed from the central area
 5 to an edge of the lens.
           The filters may comprise at least one notch filter. The filters may comprise a plurality
   of notch filters. The filters may comprise at least one blocking filter.
           The glasses may be part of a 3D imaging system at a venue displaying cinema content
   using a plurality of digital cinema projectors. The filters may be curved, and a combination
10 of the variance in spectral properties and curvature counteract adverse viewing effects
   caused by viewing the 3D images at an off-normal angle of incidence away from a central
   area of the filters.
           The passbands of a first of the filters may correspond to a first channel image of the
   3D images and passbands of a second of the filters may correspond to a second channel of
15 the 3D images. The glasses may be a part of a 3D imaging system at a venue displaying
   cinema content using a plurality digital cinema projectors.
           The filters may comprise passbands whose spectral properties encompass and are
   offset relative to wavelengths of light intended to be viewed through the passbands.
           The filters may comprise passbands whose spectral properties are offset relative to
20 wavelengths of light intended to be passed through the passbands when the wavelengths are
   normally incident to the lenses. The offset may comprise an offset toward longer
   wavelengths. The offset may comprise a red shift in the spectral properties of each passband.
   The spectral properties of the passbands may encompass the light wavelengths intended to
   carry the 3D images. The passbands of a first of the filters may correspond to a first channel
25 image of the 3D images and passbands of a second of the filters may correspond to a second
   channel of the 3D images.
           According to another aspect of the invention, there is provided glasses for viewing
   an image displayed in a set of narrowband wavelengths, the glasses comprising lens filters

                                                  -5
   configured to pass the set of narrowband wavelengths, wherein spectral properties of the
   filters are shifted toward longer wavelengths relative to the set of narrowband wavelengths.
            The shift toward longer wavelengths may comprise a wavelength dependent shift
   such that longer wavelength pass areas of the filters have a different amount of shift
 5 compared to shorter wavelength pass areas of the filters.
            The filters may comprise guardbands between pass areas of a filter disposed on a
   first lens of the glasses and pass areas of a filter disposed on a second lens of the glasses.
   Longer wavelength pass areas may be shifted more than shorter wavelength pass areas.
            The glasses may comprise 3D viewing glasses. The limited set of narrowband
10 wavelengths may comprise a first set of wavelengths corresponding to but not matching pass
   areas of a first of the lens filters and a second set of wavelengths corresponding to but not
   matching pass areas of a second of the lens filters.
            The pass areas of the lens filters may encompass and be shifted relative to their
   corresponding narrowband wavelengths. The pass areas may be shifted toward longer
15 wavelengths      relative to their corresponding narrowband wavelengths. The spectral
   properties of the lens filters may vary from one location to another.
            The pass areas may be shifted toward longer wavelengths relative to their
   corresponding narrowband wavelengths. The spectral properties of the lens filters may vary
   from one filter location to another location of the same lens filter.
20          According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a 3D venue,
   comprising at least one digital cinema projector configured to project at least part of 3D
   images for viewing by viewers at the venue, said viewers having glasses distributed to them
   upon entrance to the venue, and wherein said glasses include lens filters for viewing the 3D
   images, wherein the lens comprising a curvature, and wherein light wavelengths of the 3D
25 images selected to increase matching of color viewed through the lenses.
            The lens filters may comprise passbands whose spectral properties increasingly red
   shift toward an edge of the filters. The lens filters may comprise passbands that encompass
   and are offset relative to wavelengths of light intended to be passed by the passbands. The
   lenses may comprise a polymer material and at least one layer that functions to implement

                                                  -6
   the filter passbands. Moreover, the light wavelengths             may comprise narrowband
   wavelengths on approximately 25nm or less.
           According to yet another aspect of the invention, there is provided a 3D venue,
   comprising a screen for viewing presentation of 3D images, at least one imaging device
 5 configured to display 3D images, and a distribution mechanism for distributing to viewers
   3D glasses comprising lenses comprising wavelength dependent filters, wherein a first lens
   of the glasses is configured to pass light wavelengths of a first channel of the 3D images and
   a second lens of the glasses configured to pass light wavelengths of a second channel of the
   3D images, and wherein said glasses comprise a construction that incorporates a plurality of
10 compensation mechanisms for viewing angle related changes in wavelength dependent
   specifications of the filters.
           The plurality of compensation mechanisms may include at least one of flexible frame
   construction, selection of filter specifications offset from wavelengths of light intended to
   be passed through the lenses when viewed at a normal angle, passband characteristics that
15 shift when traversing from a center to an edge of a lens, a red shift in filter characteristics
   compared to wavelengths of the 3D images.
           The at least one imaging device may comprise a plurality of projectors configured to
   project the 3D images in narrowband wavelengths of approximately 25nm or less.
           The venue may be a theater and the 3D images comprise images of narrowband
20 wavelengths comprising red, green, and blue wavelengths.
           According to a further aspect of the invention, there is provided a 3D system
   comprising a 3D venue comprising a distribution system wherein patrons of the venue each
   receive a pair of 3D glasses for viewing 3D images displayed on a screen at the venue and
   wherein the 3D glasses comprise a filter specification for first and second lenses of the
25 glasses configured to respectively pass wavelengths of first and second channels of the 3D
   images and wherein a specification of wavelengths passed by each filter encompasses but
   does not match wavelengths of its corresponding respective 3D image channel.
           The 3D images displayed on a screen may comprise 3D images projected in
   narrowband wavelengths of approximately 25nm or less via a plurality of projectors. The

                                                   -7
   3D images displayed on a screen may comprise images projected in narrowband
   wavelengths and wherein wavelengths passed by the first lens are passed between notch
   filters blocking wavelengths passed by the second lens. The lenses may comprise a
   polycarbonate plastic comprising a layer configured to cause pass areas in a filter of each
 5 lens corresponding to but not matching the wavelengths passed by the lens.
            Embodiments of the invention may include one or more techniques to increase the
   color space of spectrally separated images which may be combined with one or more
   techniques to compensate for blue shift that occurs when viewing spectrally separated
   images through filters at other than normal angles. The individual techniques are further
10 described herein. When utilized together, the invention is a system comprising a 3D
   projection device using asymmetric projection filters and viewing glasses comprising non
   flat lenses with spectrally complimentary filters.
            Generally described, in one embodiment, the invention may provide a pair of 3D
   spectral separation filters (eye filters), disposed on left and right lenses of a pair of viewing
15 glasses, the eye filters comprising a combination of increased (and proportional to
   wavelength) guard bands, and appropriately curved lenses to reduce crosstalk, color shift,
   and reflections at the edge of the field of view. A blue shifted color filter in a - A -projector
   that projects images for viewing through the glasses may also be utilized. Although the
   present invention encompasses a combination of improvements to viewing glasses and
20 preparation of images for viewing (e.g., image projection), the invention may be practiced
   with less than all the improvements in combination.
            In one embodiment, the invention may comprise viewing filters comprising a non
   flat substrate and spectrally complementary filters.
            In one embodiment, the invention may provide spectral separation viewing glasses,
25 comprising, a first lens having a first spectral filter, and a second lens having a second
   spectral filter complementary to the first spectral filter, wherein the first lens and the second
   lens are each curved to reduce the wavelength shift that occurs when viewing an image at
   other than an angle normal to a filter through which the image is being viewed. An amount
   of curvature of the lenses (and hence the filters) is calculated such that viewing angles across
30 a viewing screen are closer to normal angles through the lenses. The curvature is
   implemented, for example, as a spherical curve.

                                                  -8
            In another embodiment, the invention may be embodied as spectral separation
   viewing glasses, comprising, a first lens comprising a first spectral filter, and a second lens
   comprising a second spectral filter complementary to the first spectral filter, wherein the first
   spectral filter and the second spectral filter have at least one guard band between adjacent
 5 portions of spectrum of the spectral filters. The guard band has a bandwidth sufficient to
   remove crosstalk of spectrally separated images viewed through the glasses, and, for
   example, is calculated based on an amount of wavelength shift occurring when viewing
   portions of the spectrally separated images at an angle through the filters.
            In one embodiment, the invention may provide a spectral separation viewing system,
10 comprising, viewing glasses having both curved lenses and increased guard bands, and a
   projection system configured to project first and second spectrally separated images wherein
   the images are wavelength pre-shifted to compensate for wavelength shifts occurring during
   display and/or viewing of the images. Such systems are preferably implemented in a
   commercial movie theater, but are also applicable to large screen televisions, computers,
15 virtual reality systems, and other display devices.
            There is also disclosed herein, a method, comprising the steps of, projecting first and
   second spectrally separated images onto a display screen, viewing the projected images
   through a pair of glasses having a first lens having a first spectral filter matching the first
   spectrally separated image and a second lens having a second spectral filter matching the
20 second spectrally separated image, wherein the spectral filters are configured to have a
   varying amount of wavelength shift effect depending upon a viewing angle through the lens.
            In one embodiment, the invention may be a 3D viewing system, comprising, means
   for projecting spectrally separated images, means for viewing the spectrally separated
   images through different ocular channels, and means for compensating for wavelength shifts
25 occurring due to viewing angles to portions of the images. The means for compensating may
   include, for example, means for adjusting an amount of spectral filtering performed on
   different portions of the image based on viewing angle. The means for compensating
   includes, for example, means for producing a wavelength mismatch between projector filters
   and eye filters that compensates for an amount of wavelength shift that occurs in the eye
30 filters due to viewing angle.

                                                 -9
            The present invention may also be described as shaped glasses, comprising a pair of
   spectrally complementary filters disposed on curved lenses of the glasses. The spectrally
   complementary filters may include guard bands between adjacent spectrums of the spectrally
   complementary filters. In one embodiment, the thickness of dielectric layers of the spectrally
 5 complementary filters increases toward edges of the lenses.
            There is also provided a method, comprising the steps of, distributing shaped glasses
   to audience viewers, and projecting first and second spectrally complementary images on a
   display screen within view of the audience members, wherein the shaped glasses comprise
   first and second shaped lenses having first and second spectrally complementary filters
10 respectively disposed thereon. In one embodiment, the first and second spectrally
   complementary filters respectively correspond in bandwidth to the projected first and second
   spectrally complementary images. However, the filters are not necessarily required to
   correspond exactly with the projected images of the filters. The shaped glasses comprise, for
   example, spherically shaped lenses.
15          There is further described herein, a storage medium having at least a visual
   performance stored thereon, that, when loaded into a media player coupled to a display
   device, causes the media player to transmit the visual performance for display to the display
   device; wherein the visual performance as displayed on the display device is configured for
   viewing through a pair of shaped glasses. The storage medium is, for example, prepackaged
20 with at least one pair of shaped glasses and available for purchase via a retail outlet.
            In yet another embodiment, the invention may be a system for viewing 3D images,
   comprising, serving 3D content over a network to a receiving electronic device, and
   displaying     the   3D    content,   wherein    the  3D     content    comprises     spectrally
   complementary images intended to be viewed with spectrally separated shaped glasses. The
25 receiving electronic device is, for example, a display system located at a movie theater.
            Embodiments of the present invention may advantageously address some of the
   problems with the Spectral Separation method for projecting 3D images, specifically an
   improvement in the efficiency, increase in the color gamut, and a reduction in the amount of
   color compensation required. In some cases, the color compensation may not be required.
30 Embodiments of the present invention may address the efficiency and color space issues by
   splitting primary colors of the projector into subparts. The splitting of primary colors into

                                                  - 10
   subparts is accomplished in part through the filter installed in the projector, which is the
   main controlling factor in the color space of the system. The efficiency and color gamut of
   the projected image are both increased using the additional subparts of the split primary
   colors.
 5           In one embodiment, the present invention may provide a projector filter, comprising,
   a first filter having a first set of primary passbands, and a second filter having a second set
   of primary passbands, wherein the first set of primary passbands has a different number of
   primary passbands than the second filter. The first filter has, for example, at least two blue
   primary passbands and the second filter has at least one blue primary passband. The first
10 filter may also have, for example, at least two green primary passbands and the second filter
   has at least one green primary. For example, the first filter may have passband wavelengths
   of approximately 400 to 440 nm and 484 to 498 nm, 514 to 528 nm, 567 to 581 nm, and 610
   to 623 nm, and the second filter may have passband wavelengths of approximately 455 to
   471 nm, 539 to 556 nm, and 634 to 700 nm. The passbands of the first filter and the second
15 filter are, for example, selected to maximize reproduction of a color space of a D-Cinema
   projector.
             The present invention may also be realized as a system for projection of spectrally
   separated 3D images, comprising, a projection system configured to project left and right
   channel images for display by a viewer, a filter placed in at least one light path of the
20 projection system comprising a left channel filter and a right channel filter, wherein at least
   one of the left and right channel filters has more than 3 primary passbands. In one
   embodiment, one of the left and right channel filters has at least 2 primary passbands in blue
   wavelengths and one of the left and right channel filters has at least 2 primary passbands in
   green wavelengths. Again, the primary passbands of the filters are selected to maximize
25 reproduction of a color space of the projection system in images projected by the projection
   system. The system may include, for example, a color correction module configured to color
   correct images projected by the projection system according to a color space of the filters.
             The invention may also be embodied as a set of filters, comprising a first filter having
   a first set of primary color passbands, a second filter having a second set of primary color
30 passbands of different wavelengths compared to the first set of primary colors, wherein the
   first filter has more than one primary color in at least one color band.

                                                 - 11
            The invention may also be embodied as a method, comprising the steps of, preparing
   a 3D image comprising a left image and a right image, filtering the left image with a left
   channel filter, filtering the right image with a right channel filter, and projecting the left and
   right filtered images onto a screen, wherein at least one of the left channel filter and right
 5 channel filter have more than 3 primary passbands. As in all of the above described
   embodiments, the filters (e.g., filters used in performing the steps of filtering) may
   themselves be embodied in an electronically switchable filter set, fixed filters in a two
   projector system, or a filter wheel wherein approximately               1/2 the wheel has filter
   characteristics of a left channel filter according to the present invention and approximately
10 1/2 the wheel has filter characteristics of a right channel filter according to the present
   invention.
            Portions of the invention may be conveniently implemented in programming on a
   general purpose computer, or networked computers, and the results may be displayed on an
   output device connected to any of the general purpose, networked computers, or transmitted
15 to a remote device for output or display. In particular, the invention includes the utilization
   of software that implements color processing separately on each ocular channel. Any
   components of the present invention represented in a computer program, data sequences,
   and/or control signals may be embodied as an electronic signal broadcast (or transmitted) at
   any frequency in any medium including, but not limited to, wireless broadcasts, and
20 transmissions over copper wire(s), fiber optic cable(s), and co-axial cable(s), etc.
                                     Description of the Drawings
            A more complete appreciation of the invention and many of the attendant advantages
   thereof will be readily obtained as the same becomes better understood by reference to the
   following detailed description when considered in connection with the accompanying
25 drawings, wherein:
   Fig. 1A is an illustration of viewing angles;
   Fig. 1B is graph illustrating spectrum of left projector filter and right eye filter;
   Fig. 2 is a graph illustrating spectrum of left projector filter vs. blue shifted right eye filter;
   Fig. 3 is a graph illustrating spectrum of blue shifted left projector filter vs. blue shifted right
30 eye filter;

                                                 - 12
   Fig. 4A is a diagram illustrating geometry of curved lenses centered at a viewer's pupil;
   Fig. 4B is an illustration of glasses with spherical lenses;
   Fig. 5 is a diagram illustrating geometry of curved lenses and showing child interpupillary
   distances;
 5 Fig. 6 is a diagram illustrating geometry of curved lenses for 20 degree angle at an edge of
   the lenses;
   Fig. 7 is a diagram illustrating geometry of curved lenses with non-spherical curve;
   Fig. 8A is a diagram illustrating effect of lens curvature on light coming from behind a
   viewer;
10 Fig. 8B is a drawing of dihedral angles for a pair of viewing glasses.
   Fig. 9 is a drawing illustrating glass frames configured for use on different sized heads.
   Fig. 10 is a diagram illustrating geometry of optimized dihedral glasses.
   Fig. 11 is a graph of conventional left and right spectral separation filters.
   Fig. 12 is a 1931 CIE chromaticity diagram illustrating the color space of a typical Digital
15 Cinema (D-Cinema) projector.
   Fig. 13 is a 1931 CIE chromaticity diagram illustrating the color space of conventional
   spectral separation filters.
   Fig. 14 is a graph of left and right projector filters.
   Fig. 15 is a 1931 CIE chromaticity diagram illustrating the color space of color filters.
20 Fig. 16 is a graph of left and right eyeglass filters that may be applied in conjunction with
   the projector filters described in Fig. 4.
   Fig. 17A is a block diagram of a projection.
   Fig. 17B is a drawing of a filter wheel; and
   Fig. 18 is a drawing of a fixed filter arrangement in a two projector system.
25                           Best Mode for Carrying Out the Invention
            This invention addresses some of the problems with the Spectral Separation method
   for projecting 3D images, specifically this invention aims to improve the off-axis filter

                                                  - 13
   characteristics when thin film dielectric (interference) filters (e.g., right eye and left eye
   filters) are used to implement eyewear (e.g., glasses) for viewing spectrally separated
   images.
            When light passes through an interference filter at a non- normal angle, the filter
 5 characteristics (response shapes, not to be confused with the physical shape of the filter) are
   changed, and the entire spectral filter response is shifted toward shorter wavelengths (toward
   the blue). The filter characteristic response shapes are also adversely affected at larger
   angles. This is a fundamental attribute of interference filters, and can be compensated for by
   designing the filter for a specific angle if all of the rays are parallel. In cases where the light
10 bundle is not parallel, as in the case with the use of 3-D glasses, solutions involving only
   design of the filter characteristics are less practical.
            Glasses currently used for spectral separation consist of flat interference filters
   located about 2 cm in front of the viewer's eyes. In a 3D Cinema theatre (e.g., 3D D-Cinema)
   the light from the screen does not pass through the interference filters at a single angle. For
15 a viewer located center and one screen width back, when viewing the image at the center of
   the screen, the light from the center of the screen would pass through the interference filters
   of the glasses at a normal (perpendicular) angle (assuming the viewer's head is positioned
   such that the plane of the interference filters is parallel to the plane of the screen). Under
   similar conditions, light from the edge of the screen would pass through the interference
20 filters at an angle of about 26 degrees.
            This viewing position is reasonably close to the screen, but is not abnormal; many of
   the seats in a common auditorium are located closer, and angles of 40 degrees are possible.
   A 26 degree angle from the edge of the screen would have the effect of shifting the filter
   response toward the blue by about 14 nanometers (nm), and would somewhat distort the
25 filter shape. The resulting 3D image appears to have noticeable color shift and increased
   left/right eye crosstalk towards the edges of the screen.
            The invention uses a combination of several techniques to reduce the effects of the
   blue shift, and to reduce the blue shift occurring from non-normal viewing angles. It should
   be remembered that the blue shift at the interference filters (e.g., lenses of the glasses having
30 filters disposed thereon) is primarily important because it causes a mismatch between
   spectral characteristics of the projector filter (e.g., a filter wheel or electronically switched

                                                   - 14
   filter) and the glasses, or more precisely, a mismatch between the spectra of light forming
   the images (from whatever source) and the characteristics of the glasses at a given viewing
   angle.
            Referring now to the drawings, wherein like reference numerals designate identical
 5 or corresponding parts, and more particularly to Fig. 1A thereof, there are illustrated example
   viewing angles through glasses 1110 for a viewer 1100 of an image projected onto a movie
   screen 1120. The viewing angles range from normal to somewhat oblique (e.g.,
   approximately Gi to 03> respectively). The glasses 1110 include lenses with dielectric based
   interference filters. The non-normal viewing angles have an amount of blue-shift associated
10 with the viewed image that increases with greater obliqueness of the viewing angle through
   the interference filters. For example, light entering the user's eyes from the more oblique
   angles 02 and 03 will be shifted toward blue wavelengths whereas the more normal angle Oi
   will have little, if any, blue shift. The blue shift, or wavelength shift, so described results
   from a shift in the interference filter properties such that the light bands passed by the filter
15 are shifted toward shorter wavelengths.
            One effect of the blue shift of light viewed at the edge of the screen (e.g., light 1130)
   is to introduce crosstalk in the image. This can be reduced by increasing the guard bands
   between left eye and right eye filter characteristics. Fig. lB illustrates characteristics of
   exemplary filters used for 3D spectral separation. As shown in Fig. IB, bandwidths for a left
20 projection filter 100, and a right eye filter 110, includes guard bands 120, 122, 124, 126, and
   128 which appear as notches between adjacent light bands (Fig. lB illustrates the right eye
   filter and the left projection filter; the right eye filter approximately represents bandwidths
   of the right projection filter and the left projection filter approximately represents
   bandwidths of the left eye filter). By increasing the width of the notch (or guard band)
25 between left and right spectra in both the eye filters and the corresponding projector filters,
   crosstalk can be reduced. This also reduces the perceived color shift. This method also
   reduces the optical efficiency of the system, but this tradeoff may be made.
            As can be seen in Fig. IB, as a pair, the left and right eye filters are complementary
   in that the filter properties of the left eye filter (approximately represented by the left
30 projection filter 100) complement the filter properties of the right eye filter 110. It is not a
   full complement in that the guard bands keep the combined filters from passing the entire

                                                   - 15
   portion of the spectrum between the longest and shortest wavelengths passed by the filters.
   Further, additional differences in bandwidth within the ranges of the various bands passed
   by the filters may be made so as to accommodate engineering decisions regarding color
   space issues that need to be addressed for a particular application.
 5          Another approach is to pre-blue shift characteristics of the projector filter, or red shift
   the eye filters, such that for viewing at a normal angle of incidence through the eye filters,
   the filter characteristics are red shifted with respect to the projector filter. This increases the
   crosstalk and color shift for normal (on axis) viewing, but this can be tuned such that for on
   axis viewing the crosstalk and color shift is not objectionable. For the off axis case, the
10 performance is improved since the difference between the projector filters and the blue
   shifted (off-axis) eye filters is lower.
            Fig. 2 and Fig. 3 describe this situation. As shown in Fig. 2, a left projector filter 200,
   and a blue shifted right eye filter 210 have guard bands including guard band 220 separating
   adjacent bands of light). As shown in Fig. 3, a blue shifted left projector filter 300 and a blue
15 shifted right eye filter 310 have guard bands including guard band 320 separating adjacent
   bands of light. As seen by comparing Fig. 2 and Fig. 3, the notch (guard bands 210 and 310)
   separating the adjacent bands of light is larger in Fig. 3.
            Applying this to the case described earlier, the shift of 14 nm at the edges of the
   screen could be reduced to an effective shift of 11 nm if the projector filter were shifted blue
20 3 nm. There would be a "red shift" of 3 nm at the center of the screen.
            Another approach is to curve the filters, which can be implemented, for example, by
   disposing the eye filters on curved lenses of viewing glasses. This has the advantage that it
   has the potential of actually reducing the blue shift.
            Fig. 4A describes the geometry of curved lenses with a radius centered at the eye
25 pupil. The lenses shown (lens 405 A having optical axis 410A and lens 405B having optical
   axis 410B) have a width of 50mm and the chord is located 20mm from a respective pupil
   (and center of curvature) (e.g., 400A and 400B). The measurements were made for the
   inventor's eyes, but are representative of the general situation that could be implemented for
   anyone wearing 3D glasses. Using glasses with lenses having a spherical section with a
30 radius centered on the entrance pupil of the eye virtually eliminates any blue shift in the
   filters because the light passes through the lenses (and hence, the filters) virtually normal to

                                                  - 16
   the lens/filter for viewing all parts of the screen. Some distortion occurs when the viewer
   turns his eyes to look at different parts of the screen, but for the geometry shown, this is not
   significant. Fig. 4B illustrates two views of a pair of glasses 490 having curved lenses 492
   A and 492B which are both spherically shaped and having spectrally complementary
 5 dielectric filters disposed thereon (left eye filter 496A and right eye filter 496B).
           The curvatures of the lenses so implemented are distinguished from prescription
   glasses in that the implemented curvatures are not to correct vision. Nevertheless, in one
   embodiment, the curvature of the invention may be implemented over or in addition to other
   lens characteristics intended to fulfill a viewer's prescription needs.
10         The curved lens solution still has some limitations. First, the radius of curvature of
   30 mm resulting from the geometry described above appears very "bug-eyed," and would be
   aesthetically unpleasing. Second, this curvature would produce glasses whose weight would
   be centered well in front of the nosepiece, and they would be poorly balanced. Third, this
   radius may be too short to allow uniform coating of an interference filter.
15         Fourth, the interpupillary distance of eyes varies significantly, and this would mean
   that glasses designed for the mean would be improperly curved for someone with other than
   the mean distance. For example, with a child the situation may result in an angle of about 10
   degrees for viewing of the center of the screen. As shown in Fig. 5, the location of a child's
   pupils (5 1OA and 510B) and the resulting optical axis of the child's eye (530A and 530B) is
20 displaced off the corresponding optical axis of the glasses (520A and 520B respectively
   centered at center of curvatures 500A and 500B).
           Even considering the limitations associated with curving the lenses and/or filters, this
   technique is valuable. Although in general cases or productions for mass audiences, it may
   not make sense to attempt to have the radius of curvature centered directly at the entrance
25 pupil of the eye. By making the lenses spherical but with a radius of curvature centered
   behind the entrance of the pupil of the eye, much of the problems are removed (e.g., bringing
   the center of gravity back toward the viewer, and a less "bug-eyed" appearance) and the
   advantages are significantly retained.
           In one alternative, the lenses may use a non-spherical curvature, such as a cylindrical
30 curvature where the lenses are only curved from left to right, and there is no curvature in the
   vertical direction. This is possible because the screens always have an aspect ratio such that

                                                  - 17
   the horizontal extent (e.g., width) is about twice the vertical extent (e.g., height). Another
   alternative is to use a curvature that is non spherical in either direction, such as a multiple
   radius surface, or one that follows a specific mathematical function. These have advantages
   for allowing a greater interpupillary variation. An additional advantage of curved lenses
 5 includes the reduction of reflections from bright surfaces behind the viewer, since these
   reflections are not directed toward the eye.
            A final approach involves the design of the interference filters. This approach
   requires changing the thickness of the dielectric layers as a function of the distance from the
   center of each eye filter. If the thicknesses of the dielectric layers are increased at the edges
10 of the filters such that they cause a red shift in the filter characteristics, this can be used to
   compensate for the blue shift caused by the angle change at the edges of the field of view
   through the filters.
            If the filters are implemented on flat glass, the thickening of the dielectric layers may
   increase manufacturing costs due to difficulty in implementing the increased thicknesses at
15 different points on the flat glass. However, when coating on a curved surface, some
   thickening occurs during the coating process. This approach therefore becomes a practical
   adjunct to the curved lens solution.
            The best method for achieving high performance                with interference filters
   incorporates the four techniques described above in the following manner. First, the guard
20 bands between left and right eye filters should be greater than approximately 2% (e.g., 2.2%)
   of the wavelength of that filter band. For example, for a filter with a left/right crossover at
   640 nm, the guard band should be approximately 14 nm. Second, the projector filter should
   be designed to be blue shifted (with respect to the eye glass filters) greater than 0.6% of the
   wavelength of the filter band. In the same example, the center of the guard band for the
25 projector filter would be 640 - 3.8    = 636.2 nm. The combination of these allow nominally
   manufactured lenses and eye filters (when used with a nominally manufactured projector
   lens and projector filters) to be tilted such that a blue shift of 18 nm occurs before serious
   degradation of the image occurs.
            However, the combined manufacturing tolerance from the projector filters and the
30 eye filters reduces this to about 9 nm. The 9 nm guard band that remains can be used for
   accommodating the blue shift caused by the light going through the left and right eye filters

                                                 - 18
   at an angle. The angle through the left and right eye filters that causes a 9 nm shift is about
   20 degrees. If the curvature of the eye filters (e.g., curvature of lenses upon which the eye
   filters are disposed or incorporated) is adjusted to allow the light from the edge of the eye
   filters to pass through to the eye at a maximum of 20 degrees relative to the normal of the
 5 eye filters at the edge, then serious degradation of the image at the edge of the eye filters will
   not occur.
            For a simple sphere, and with the eye looking straight at the center of the screen (e.g.,
   a primary gaze normal to a tangent of the lens), the radius of curvature needed to achieve
   this is approximately 50 mm. As shown in Fig. 6 (lenses 605A and 605B have respective
10 centers of curvature 610A and 610B; adult pupil locations at 615A, 615B and corresponding
   optical axis of the lenses and adult eye 630A and 630B; child pupil locations at 620A, 620B
   and corresponding optical axis of child's eye 635A and 635B). In practice the radius of
   curvature may be somewhat greater than 50mm to accommodate the pupil shift when the
   eye is turned to observe the side of the picture screen.
15          Although spherically shaped lenses are preferred, non-spherical lenses do have some
   advantages. Fig. 7 shows left and right lenses 705A and 705B with a non-spherical curve
   (adult pupils 700A, 700B; optical axis of the lenses 715A, 715B; child pupils 710A, 710B,
   and corresponding optical axis of child's eye 720A, 720B). The left and right lenses
   incorporate corresponding left and right eye filters. The filters are, for example, disposed on
20 one or more surfaces of the lenses. The advantages of a non-spherical curve are found in
   accommodating variations of interpupillary distances between different viewers. Finally, a
   non-uniform dielectric coating can be used to red shift the filter characteristics at the edges
   of the filters, further improving the performance.
            A more important advantage is that reflections from behind the viewer are reduced
25 by the curvature. This is important because the interference filters disposed on the eyeglass
   lenses reflect light that is not transmitted, and are therefore quite reflective. Without the
   curve, the audience behind the viewer is visible across much of the back side of the lens.
   With the curve, only a portion (or none) of the lens has a reflection from behind the viewer.
   Fig. 8 illustrates this advantage by comparison of a curved lens 705 having a center of
30 curvature at 708 and a flat lens 710. With respect to the flat lens 710, a relatively wide angled
   light ray 725 from behind the viewer is reflected off the flat lens into the viewer's pupil

                                                  - 19
   700A. With respect to the curved lens 705, it is shown that only a relatively narrow angle
   (light ray 720) can reach the viewer's pupil 700B via reflection from the curved lens. In
   addition, the viewer's temple 730 blocks most light rays sufficiently narrow to enter the
   viewer's temple.
 5         Further optimization of the techniques discussed can be achieved by accommodating
   interpupillary distance variation among the population. In general, interpupillary spacing is
   directly related to head width and girth. Adults have larger width and girth, and wider
   interpupillary spacing, while children are smaller in these dimensions. Ideally, a viewer
   would wear glasses with the left and right eye filters disposed on corresponding left and right
10 lenses of the glasses where the interocular spacing of the lenses is optimized for the viewer's
   particular interpupillary distances.
           In a theatre or other large volume application, it is cumbersome to stock different
   sized glasses. As an optimization to the curved glasses it is possible to incorporate a feature
   into the design of the frame of the glasses that automatically adjusts a dihedral angle between
15 the curved lenses to accommodate wider and narrower interpupillary spacing. Adjusting the
   dihedral angle insures a close to normal light incidence when viewing the screen with a
   primary gaze. This adjustment is done by exploiting the flexibility and bending strength
   properties of molded thermoplastic frames, or other frames having similar properties of
   strength and flexibility (e.g., metals, fiberglass, composites, etc).
20         In this design there is an outward convexity to the shape of the frames, which creates
   a dihedral angle between the lenses. In one embodiment, the bridge of the glasses is designed
   to flex slightly with head size variation due to pressure on the frame (e.g., pressure exerted
   on the temple portion of the frames). This flexing results in dihedral angle changes. As
   shown in Fig. 8B, wider heads 875 with (statistically) larger interpupillary spacing have a
25 larger dihedral angle OA. In this context, the dihedral angle is defined as the angle between
   a planes extending through endpoints on opposite ends of the lenses (see dashed line in Fig.
   8B). Smaller heads 880 would have a smaller dihedral angle GB. With a smaller head and
   corresponding smaller dihedral angle between the lenses, the distance between the forward
   directed radii of the curved lenses is reduced to more closely match the smaller interpupillary
30 spacing.

                                                   - 20
            Fig. 9 illustrates both cases. Glasses 900 are illustrated in a first position 900A as
   when worn by an adult with a relatively larger sized head. Interpupillary spacing of the adult
   is represented by Y. A temple or "aroundthe ear"portion of the frame of the glasses have
   a spacing represented by Y' to accommodate the adult's head size, causing a flex of the bridge
 5 910 of the glasses and resulting in a larger dihedral angle between the lenses.
            Position 900B, is similar to that when worn by a child with a relatively smaller sized
   head, and the interpupillary distance of the child is represented by X. The bridge 910 is less
   flexed because the temple or "around the ear" spacing is reduced to X' which results in a
   smaller dihedral angle between the lenses. The smaller dihedral angle accommodates the
10 child's smaller interpupillary spacing as described above.
            Fig. 10 illustrates details for the lenses. At 1005, an adult right eye pupil 1010A is
   shown relative to a child's eye pupil 101 5A), with the lens 1020 having a center of curvature
   at 1025A. As seen in Fig. 10, comparing the position of lens 1020 to lens 1030 in position
   1030A, a larger dihedral exists between the lenses. This is the appropriate lens configuration
15 for an adult.
            When worn by a child (or person with a relatively smaller sized head), an amount of
   flex of the bridge of the glasses cause lenses 1030 and 1020 to decrease in dihedral as
   illustrated by 1050 for the left eye (consistent with Fig. 9, a similar dihedral decrease (not
   shown) occurs for the right eye in lens 1020). The center of the radius of curvature (1040 for
20 lens 1030 in position 1030B) has shifted from an alignment corresponding to the adult pupil
   10 1OB to an alignment corresponding to the child's pupil 1015B.
            Figs. 8B, 9, and 10 are illustrative of an accommodation for both "adult sized" and
   "child sized" heads and interpupillary distances. However, it should be understood that
   interpupillary distances and head sizes vary amongst the entire population. While near
25 perfect alignment may occur for some viewers, it is not required and the embodiments
   illustrated function to accommodate the varying head sizes and interpupillary distances by
   improving the viewing angle alignments in most cases.
            The lenses shown in Fig. 10 have a 50mm radius of curvature and the dihedral angle
   is 2 degrees. With conventional sized frames the dihedral angle change for the average adult
30 verses child is about 5 degrees (approximately 2.5 degrees accounted for on each side of the

                                                  -21
   frames for a total of about 5 degrees). This technique works best with lenses with a radius
   of curvature that is about half the length of the temple portion of the glasses.
            As noted above, the present invention addresses some of the problems with the
   Spectral Separation method for projecting 3D images, specifically an improvement in the
 5 efficiency, increase in the color gamut, and a reduction in the amount of color compensation
   required. In some cases, the color compensation may not be required.
            Referring again to the drawings, and more particularly to Fig. 11 thereof, there is
   illustrated a set of left and right spectral separation filters representative of those currently
   used in D-Cinema 3-Dimensional (3D) presentations. As shown in Fig. 11, the conventional
10 spectral separation filters provide three primaries for each eye by dividing the red, green,
   and blue color channels of a projector into two sets of primaries, one set for the left eye
   (primaries 111 R, 1 OG, and 1 OB) and one set for the right eye (primaries 11 12R, 11 12G,
   and 1112B). For example, the left eye is illustrated as having shorter wavelength blue, green,
   and red bands than the right eye. Following a conventional design, the left eye may have, for
15 example, passband wavelengths of approximately 400 to 445 (blue), 505 to 525 (green), and
   595 to 635 (red). The right eye may have, for example, passband wavelengths of
   approximately 455 to 495 (blue), 535 to 585 (green), and 645 to 700 (red).
            While a filter configuration like that illustrated in Fig. 11 provides all three colors to
   each eye, the resulting image has a somewhat different hue in each eye. In order to make the
20 images more closely match the colors for each eye, and match the colors in the original
   image, color correction is applied. The color correction reduces the overall efficiency of the
   system (since it boosts some primaries preferentially over others). In addition, even with
   color correction, the new left and right primaries do not have as large of a color space as the
   projector, and thus can only produce a portion, but not every color that would be present if
25 projected without the filters in a 2D system.
            Fig. 12 is a 1931 CIE chromaticity diagram illustrating the unfiltered color space
   1200 and P3 white point 1210 of a typical Digital Cinema (D-Cinema) projector. The
   unfiltered color space of the projector represents the color space available for projecting
   images.
30          Fig. 13 is a 1931 CIE chromaticity diagram illustrating the color space of
   conventional spectral separation filters used to separate the left eye channel 1320 and right

                                                 - 22
   eye channel 1330 in a D-Cinema projector. The intersection of the left and right eye channel
   color spaces represents the potential color space of images projected through the filters. As
   can be seen in Fig. 13, the potential color space using the conventional filters is restricted
   compared with the projector color space (1200, Fig. 2). In addition, the P3 white point 1310
 5 is an important factor in the overall result of the projected image, and is significantly shifted
   compared to that of the projector alone -     see P3 white point 1315 for the left eye and P3
   white point 1325 for the right eye and compare to projector P3 white point 1210, shown for
   reference in Fig. 13.
            The present invention pertains to the filter installed in the projector, which is the
10 main controlling factor in the color space of the system. The invention addresses both the
   efficiency and the color space issues by splitting at least one of the projector primaries into
   subparts. In one embodiment, the blue and green projector primaries are split into three sub
   parts each. The exact wavelengths of where the primary is split may be chosen in any manner
   that takes into account the particular color space to be reproduced.
15          For example, as shown in Fig. 14, in one potential configuration, a right channel
   projection filter has passband wavelengths of blue at 400 to 440 (410-B1)        and 484 to 498
   nm (410-B2), green at 514 to 528 (1410-GI) and 567 to 581 nm (1410-G2), and red at 610
   to 623 nm (1410-R). A left channel projection filter has passbands wavelengths of blue at
   455 to 471 nm (1412-B), green at 539 to 556 nm (1412-G), and red at 634 to 700 nm (1412
20 R). Of course other permutations exist, such as, for example, switching the left and right
   channel wavelengths, or switching the green and blue wavelengths etc. In addition, the
   passband wavelengths are approximate and each band may vary by, for example +/- 5 nm or
   more. Such variations may occur by shifting the entire passband and/or by selecting one or
   more different endpoints for the passbands. An important consideration is that such variances
25 should not reduce the guard band between passbands to a level where a system using the
   filters incurs unacceptable levels of crosstalk between the channels.
            The selection of passband wavelengths is made such that when an image is projected
   with a D-Cinema projector with a P3 white point 1210 and color space 1200 as, for example,
   shown in Fig. 12, the resultant color space in the channels, and more particularly the
30 combined color spaces of the projected images, have a color space and white point that more
   closely match the color space 1200 and P3 white point 1210 compared to the color space

                                                  - 23
   and white point that occurs when using conventional spectral separation, such as shown in
   Fig. 13. The passbands are also chosen to maximize efficiency by selecting passbands that
   will result in having approximately the same, or balanced, luminance levels in each channel.
   So long as sufficient bandwidth is available in each passband to achieve the stated
 5 improvements (as, for example, proven by experimental results), there are no theoretical
   limits on the variances that may occur over the example passband wavelengths described
   herein.
           Note that there are gaps in the spectrum of colors that did not exist in the previous
   design (for example between 498 nm and 514 nm for blue to green transition in the right
10 channel, and between 581nm and 610 nm for the green to red transition in the right channel).
   These notches are designed to increase the color space so that it matches the P3 color space
   in D-Cinema projectors. The filter response needed to get the correct P3 result was derived
   using the real (measured) spectral response from the D-Cinema projectors, which is reflected
   in the chosen wavelengths for the passbands described above.
15         Also note that in the illustrated example, the three sub-parts are structured such that
   they are interleaved between the right and left channels. From a practical standpoint, this
   means that the three sub-parts are arranged such that one filter has at least one sub-part lower
   and one sub-part higher than the sub-part of the other filter. For example, in Fig. 14, the blue
   passbands of the right channel projection filter straddle the blue passband of the left channel
20 projection filter. Such interleaving is preferably maintained in the various embodiments,
   including those embodiments that divide passbands into more than 3 sub-parts. Although
   theoretically there is no limit on the number of sub-parts in which any passband may be
   divided, due to cost and other factors, a point of diminishing returns is quickly reached and
   3 sub-parts each of blue and green and 2 sub-parts of red appears to have the greatest return
25 with reasonable cost. With improved components and/or reduced costs of components, a
   different economic analysis may result and 4, 5, or more sub-parts, including additional sub
   parts in the red, may be justified for additional incremental increases in the color space. Such
   incremental improvements might also be justified under current economic and cost models
   for upper end equipment markets.
30         Fig. 15 shows the color space diagrams for the filters of this invention described
   above. As can be seen in Fig. 15, the intersection, or product, of the left channel projection

                                                 - 24
   filter color space and right channel projection filter color space results in a color space more
   closely matching the color space 1200 (Fig. 12) than which occurs with conventional spectral
   separation. Some portions of the color space are reduced and other portions of the color
   space are increased. Although some areas of the color space are reduced, the reduced areas
 5 are less important to viewers. Areas of the color space to which viewers are more sensitive
   have made significant gains with the invention versus conventional spectral separation.
            Glasses used to view the projected images need not be as complex as the projector
   filter since the notches that provide the improved color space have no impact on the left/right
   eye (or left/right channel) separation, and therefore the notches do not need to be reproduced
10 in the viewing filters of the glasses (the projector filter has more bands, and therefore more
   complexity than the viewing filters). As shown in Fig. 16, in one configuration the right eye
   lens of the glasses would have a filter with passband wavelengths of approximately 430 to
   440 nm (part of the blue band), 484 to 528 nm (part of the blue, and part of the green band),
   568 to 623 (part of the green band and the red band), which encompass the passbands of the
15 right channel projector filter. The left eye lens of the glasses would have a filter with
   passband wavelengths of 455 to 471 (blue), 539 to 555nm (green), and 634 to 700 nm (red)
   which encompass the passbands of the left channel projector filter. Wavelengths below the
   beginning wavelengths in the blue (approximately 430 nm) and wavelengths above ending
   wavelengths in red (approximately 700 nm) are beyond the visible spectrum and may either
20 be included or excluded from the passbands. Other permutations exist as described before
   (including left/right channel exchange), but the left and right eye lenses of the glasses include
   corresponding permutations that encompass or match the left and right channel projector
   filter permutations.
            Along with other factors such as projector color space and white point, the final
25 images viewed through the glasses are a product of the projecting filters and viewing filters
   (e.g., filters in the glasses used to view the images). In the described embodiments, the
   receiving filters are less demanding as far as passband design because they have fewer
   notches and they generally encompass more wavelengths in at least some of the passbands.
   The important role played by the glasses is separation of the entire images as whole and as
30 projected, not specific bands within each image as described for the projection filters.

                                                 - 25
            The overall response (color space and white point) to the eye is the product of the
   spectral response of the projector filter(s), the lenses/filters of the eyeglasses, and the base
   D-Cinema projector response (color space and white point of the D-Cinema projector
   without the left and right channel projector filters). Nevertheless, the color space is mostly
 5 defined by the position of the passbands and the notches in the yellow and blue-green bands,
   and therefore the overall response is mostly a function of the projector filter (because the
   glasses do not need and preferably do not have the notches).
            In part, because of the lower complexity of the eyeglass (or viewing) filters, the
   eyeglass filters are also comparatively less expensive to produce compared to the projection
10 filters. This is a benefit because the eyeglass filters are generally embodied as a pair of
   glasses worn by viewers (including the general public), and are therefore likely to be
   subjected to less than perfect care, whereas the projector equipment including the projector
   filters are generally kept in more secure and stable environments. In addition, the glasses are
   generally purchased in larger numbers than the projector filter(s).
15          Another aspect of the differing complexities of the eyeglass (or viewing) filters
   compared to the projector filters is that they create an asymmetric filtering system. That is,
   each viewing filter and its corresponding projection filter of the same channel are not
   symmetric in bandwidth and/or the number of passbands. The passbands of the viewing
   filters may also entirely encompass the passbands of the projection filters (and, in some
20 embodiments, the passbands of the projector filter may be blue-shifted relative to the
   passbands of the viewing filters to account for viewing angle related blue shifts in the
   viewing filters). Regardless of whether the projection filters are entirely encompassed by the
   passbands of the viewing filters, the passbands of the viewing and projection filters
   preferably are different. Therefore, a preferred result is an asymmetric filtering system.
25          The particular projector filter response used in describing the invention uses 3
   divisions of the blue and green projector color bands. The red band is divided into two parts
   (one part for the right channel and one part for the left channel). Additional divisions may
   be utilized for increased color space, but additional cost of the filters may be incurred.
   Careful selection of the optical passbands provides a close match to the color space and white
30 point of the original unfiltered projector. The design of the glasses is such they have the same

                                                 - 26
   complexity of the conventional spectral separation design, but provide adequate selectivity
   to minimize crosstalk between the images projected in the left and right channels.
            Fig. 17A is a block diagram of a projection system 1700 according to an embodiment
   of the present invention. The projection system 1700 includes a digital cinema projector
 5 1705 that projects spectrally separated 3D images (a left channel image and a right channel
   image) through projection filter 1730 and projection lens 1720 onto a screen 1710 for
   viewing with glasses 1715. Glasses 1715 include, for example spectrally separated filters
   disposed as coatings on each lens of the glasses such that the right lens comprises a filter
   that matches or encompasses the passbands of the right channel filter and the left lens
10 comprises a filter that matches or encompasses passbands of the left channel filter (each of
   the left and right channel images are intended to be viewed by a viewer's corresponding left
   or right eye through the corresponding left or right eye lens/filter of the glasses). The glasses
   1715, and system 1700, may, for example, include any of the features, systems, or devices
   described in Richards et al, a U.S. Patent Application entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM
15 FOR SHAPED GLASSES AND VIEWING 3D IMAGES, Serial No. 11/801,574, filed May
   09, 2007, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference as if specifically set
   forth.
            The projector 1705 receives image data for projection from a server 1780. 3D content
   is provided to the server 1780 from, for example, a disk drive 1740. Alternatively, 3D content
20 may be transmitted to projector 1705 over a secure link of network 1755 from, for example,
   an image warehouse or studio 1750. Multiple other projectors (e.g., at theaters around the
   globe, 17 6 01..1760,) may also feed from similar network or other electronic or wireless
   connections including wireless networks, satellite transmission, or quality airwave
   broadcasts (e.g., High Definition or better broadcast).
25          The server 1780 includes color correction module 1775 that performs mathematical
   transformations of color to be reproduced by the projector prior to image projection. The
   mathematical transformations utilize image data for each of the left and right channels and
   transform them into parameters consistent with the primary colors or passbands of the
   corresponding left or right channel filter. The mathematical transformation, or color
30 corrections, adjust the hue of each image and maximize the available color space and match
   the color space and white point of projector 1705 as closely as possible. The amount of color

                                                - 27
   correction required when using the invention is significantly reduced when compared with
   conventional spectral separation.
            The color corrected 3D content is transmitted to projector 1705. The 3D content
   includes left and right channel images that switch at a rate fast enough that they blend into a
 5 single 3D image when viewed by a viewer through glasses 1715. At some point in the optical
   path of the projection system, filters according to the present invention are utilized. For
   example, a filter wheel 1730 is placed at point in the optical path closer to the light source.
   Fig. 17B provides an illustrative example of a filter wheel 1730 in front, side, and angle
   views. Specifications for appropriate physical dimensions and characteristics of the
10 exemplary filter wheel 1730 include, for example: an outside diameter (OD) 1732 of
   125.00mm +/- 0.15mm, an inside hole 1734 with a diameter (ID) of 15.08mm +/- 0.04mm
   (that is, for example, off-center by not more than .075mm), and a thickness of 1.00mm
   1.20mm. The exemplary filter wheel includes, for example, Material: Borofloat or Fused
   Silica, Monolithic Filter, 2 Section (e.g., TYPE A, a first channel filter, and TYPE B, a
15 second channel filter), Max 3mm Undefined Transition, Clear Aperature: 1mm From OD,
   10mm From ID, Surface Quality: 80-50 Where Scratch Number Is Width Measured In
   Microns, Edge Finish: As Fabricated, Edge Chips: Less Than Or Equal To 1 mm. All such
   specifications are exemplary and other combinations of materials, dimensions, and/or
   construction techniques, etc, may be utilized. Alternatively, an electronically switched filter
20 1725 is placed, for example, after the projection lens 1720.
            A controller 1735 provides signals that maintain synchronization between the filter
   1730 and the image being projected. For example, features of a left channel filter according
   to the present invention are active when a left channel image is being projected, and features
   of a right channel filter according to the present invention are active when a right channel
25 image is being projected. In the electronically switched filter case, the controller signals
   switching between left and right channel filters in synchronicity with the left and right image
   projections. In the filter wheel embodiment, for example, the controller maintains a
   rotational speed and synchronicity between the left and right channel images and the left and
   right channel filters respectively. The blended image as viewed through glasses 1710 has a
30 color space and white point that closely matches a color space and white point of projector
   1705 without filter 1730.

                                                  - 28
            The present invention includes an embodiment in which a filter wheel having left
   and right channel projection filters disposed thereon is placed inside a movie projector
   between the light source and integrating rod of the movie projector. The advantage of this
   placement is that the amount of light passing through the remaining optical components is
 5 reduced and less likely to overload sensitive electronics or other components (e.g. DLP,
   LCOS, or other light processors or light valves in the projector), but the amount of light that
   exits the projection is system is equivalent to embodiments where the projection filter(s) is
   placed further downstream locations. Alternatively, the power of the light source can be
   increased resulting in increased output without jeopardizing the integrating rod or other
10 downstream components.
            Further advantages to the described placement of the filter is that the filter can be
   made smaller than at most other points in the light patch, and at a reduced cost compared to
   larger filters. And, images formed after filtering are generally found to be sharper than
   images formed and then filtered.
15          In one embodiment, the projection filter is a filter wheel where approximately 1/2 the
   wheel has filter characteristics of a left channel filter according to the present invention and
   approximately 1/2 the wheel has filter characteristics of a right channel filter according to the
   present invention. Table 1 specifies an exemplary filter wheel specification for a multi-band
   filter having a left channel filter section and right channel filter section. The Delta values
20 shown in Table 1 specify a slope (steepness) of the band edges. The T50 values specify the
   wavelength at the band edge where the light transmission is 50%. At the band pass
   wavelengths the transmission is at least 90%, and at the band reject wavelengths the
   transmission is less than 0.5%. The wheel may have, for example a diameter of
   approximately 125mm diameter which is well suited for installation in a D- Cinema projector
25 (e.g., projector 705) between the light source and integrating rod.
30

                                                -29
  Table 1
                                 Exemplary Filter Wheel Specificatlen
               Delta T"              Delta T90             Right               Lrt
                T-0.5%               Th90%               T-50%               T-50%
                                                   T< 430 nm
           <8nm               < 2 nm               4440 nm +- 2m
         <8 nm                <2 nm                                   14 56 nm-   2nn
           S am               c2 nm                                   1470 nm+- 2,Snm
         <8nm                 < 2.5 nm             1484 nm +. 25nm
         <10 nm               < 3 nm               1498 nm-    3nm
         < 10 nm              < 3 nm               1511 nm+- 3nm
           10 nm              < 2.5 nm              526 nm  +- 25nm
            0nm<                25mn                                  $38 tun  +- 2.5nm
           10 nm              < 3nm                                   1554 nm - 2.5nm
           10 nm              <3 nM                 568 nm +-2.5nm
           *2nm               <3nm                 1584nm-3nm
           12nm               <3 nn                t610 nm+ 3nm
           12 nm              <3nm                 1621 nm +- 3nm
          12 nm               <3 nm                                   T635 nm +-3nm
                                                                       >690 rim
          The above exemplary specifications include some pre-blue- shifting consistent with
5 the above-cited Richards et al patent application. However, inclusion of blue-shifting and
  other features is not required.
          Table 2 specifies an exemplary set of viewing filters matching (or encompassing the
  passbands of the projector filters but also including a small amount of red shift). The filters

                                                - 30
   include a multi-band filter for the left channel (or left eye lens) and a multi-band filter for
   the right channel (or right eye lens). The Delta values specify the slope (steepness) of the
   band edges. The T50 values specify the wavelength at the band edge where the light
   transmission is 50%. At the band pass wavelengths the transmission is at least 90%, and at
 5 the band reject wavelengths the transmission is less than 0.5%. These filters are, for example,
   placed on left and right lenses of glasses 1715.
   Table 2
                                       Exemplary Viewing Filters
                   telta T8,5        Delta T"              Right                  Left
                 T=0.5%               T=90%               T=5"0%                T-5O%
                                                   t< 430 nm
             12 nm               3 nm               442 m+- 3nm
          *12 nm                 3 nm                                   t458R nim +- 3nm
            12 nm              < 3 nm                                    472 nm +- 3in
            16 nm              c4 n                   86 nm +-3nm
            16 m               <4 am                 52 nm +-3nm
            I6 nm                4nm                                   T54 0 nm +- 3nn
            16 nm                4 nm                                      t557
                                                                              nm-    3nm
            20 nm                5 nm              $571 nm-    3nn
            22nm                 6m                1624nm+- 4nm
            23 nm                6 nm                                  J637 nm -- 5nm
                                                                       1-700 nm
10         Fig. 18 is a drawing of a fixed filter arrangement in a two projector system 1800
   according to an embodiment of the present invention. Left and right channel images are
   derived, decoded, retrieved, or reconstructed from data stored on disk drive 1840 (or

                                                 -31
   received from an appropriate network or transmission reception) by server 1880. Color
   correction as described above may also be applied (not shown).
           The decoded, color corrected (if applicable), left and right channel images are then
   projected simultaneously from left and right channel projectors 1805A and 1805B onto
 5 screen 1810 for viewing through glasses 1715. A right channel filter 1820A having passband
   characteristics as described above is used to filter the projected right channel image. A left
   channel filter 1820B having passband characteristics as described above is used to filter the
   projected left channel image. The right and left channel filters are fixed filters (e.g., filters
   with characteristics that do not change with time), and are constructed, for example, from a
10 clear substrate (e.g., glass) coated with appropriate layers to produce the passbands for the
   desired left or right channel filter characteristics. The fixed filter may be located in the
   projector at any point in the optical path, or may be located outside the projector past the
   projection lens as shown in Fig. 18.
           Although the present invention has been mainly described as increasing color space
15 by increasing the number of passbands in the blue and green wavelengths (and interleaving
   those passbands between the left and right channels), the invention should not be limited to
   increasing the number of passbands in the same number or in the same wavelengths as
   specifically described herein, and, should include any number of increased passbands at any
   wavelength capable of being passed by the projection filter. For example, instead of dividing
20 the blue primary into three sub-parts (2 subparts in one channel and one part in the other
   channel); the blue primary may be divided into four or more sub-parts (e.g., 3 sub-parts in
   one channel and 2 sub-parts in the other channel). Further, division of sub-parts as described
   herein may be performed at any of the available wavelengths and can therefore be extended
   into the red wavelengths. Further yet, discussion above should not be viewed to limit
25 implementations of wherein the additional sub-parts of the blue and green bands are
   necessarily in the same channel, as the invention can be practiced by having two sub-parts
   of blue in a first channel, one sub-part of blue in a second channel, two sub-parts of green in
   the second channel, and one sub-part of green in the first channel. The same also logically
   extends to embodiments with more than three sub-parts where the additional subparts may
30 be in any of the color bands and any of the channels.

                                                 - 32
            In yet another example, the recitations regarding curved glass lenses having a 50mm
   radius of curvature is exemplary and any other radii could be utilized so long as the radius
   does not extend toward infinity (making the glasses flat, or essentially flat). For example a
   40 mm radius or an 80 mm radius or more (e.g., even up to 200 mm) may provide suitable
 5 alternatives and not detract an unacceptable amount from the benefits of the described 50
   mm radius of curvature. In one embodiment, a radius of curvature of the glass lenses is
   90mm (alternatively, approximately 90mm) which represents an acceptable trade-off
   considering the cost and difficulty of coating lenses with a greater amount of curvature
   without detracting too substantially from the benefits of optimally curved lenses.
10          Various non-limiting and exemplary embodiments of the invention are now
   described, including, for example, viewing glasses comprising a non-flat substrate (e.g., non
   flat lenses), with spectrally complementary filters (alternatively, the filters are for two
   channels such that the filter of a first channel passes light bands of the first channel and
   blocks light bands of the second channel and visa- versa). The viewing glasses may
15 comprise, for example, a first lens having a first spectral filter, and a second lens having a
   second spectral filter complementary to the first spectral filter, and the first and second lenses
   are each curved to reduce a wavelength shift that occurs when viewing an image at other
   than a normal angle through the lens. In various embodiments, the curve of each lens
   comprises, for example, any of: a radius centered on the viewers pupil, a radius centered
20 behind the viewers pupil, a non-spherical shape, a cylindrical shape, includes multiple radii,
   a predetermined mathematical function, prescription curvatures. In one embodiment, the
   spectral filters have a thickness that varies by location on the lens. In another embodiment,
   the spectral filters comprise a plurality of dielectric layers, and the dielectric layers have an
   increased layer thickness toward edges of the lenses.
25          In another embodiment, the present invention comprises viewing filters comprising
   a non-flat substrate and spectrally complementary filters. In one embodiment, at least one of
   the spectrally complimentary filters comprises, for example, a single passband configured to
   pass two lightbands of different colors. In one embodiment, at least one of the spectrally
   complimentary filters comprises a single passband configured to pass two different colors of
30 light. In one embodiment, the spectrally complimentary filters are configured for viewing a
   3D display, which, for example, may comprise a reflection off a cinema screen. In one
   embodiment, the spectrally complimentary filters comprise, for example, a first filter having

                                                 - 33
   a set of primary passbands comprising, a first passband configured to pass both a green
   lightband and a red lightband, and a second passband configured to pass both a blue
   lightband and a green lightband. In one embodiment, the spectrally complimentary filters
   comprise, a first filter comprising a first set of primary passbands comprising a passband
 5 configured to pass both a green lightband and a red lightband, and a second filter comprising
   a second set of primary passbands comprising a passband configured to pass both a blue
   lightband and a green lightband. In one embodiment, the spectrally complimentary filters
   comprise a first filter having a set of 3 passbands configured to pass a set of more than 3
   primary color lightbands. In one embodiment, the spectrally complimentary filters comprise
10 a first filter comprising a first set of passbands configured to pass a first set of primary
   lightbands and a second filter comprising a second set of passbands configured to pass a
   second set of primary lightbands, wherein the first set of primary lightbands are mutually
   exclusive to the second set of primary lightbands. Additionally, the first set of passbands and
   the second set of passbands may be, for example, separated by guard bands having a width
15 calculated to maintain separation between the primary lightbands when viewed through the
   viewing filters and compensate for blue shift due to a viewing angle of the primary
   lightbands through the viewing filters. In one embodiment, at least one of the passbands
   encompasses at least two of the primary lightbands.
            In another embodiment, the invention comprises spectral separation viewing glasses,
20 comprising, a first lens comprising a first spectral filter, and a second lens comprising a
   second spectral filter complementary to the first spectral filter, wherein the first spectral filter
   and the second spectral filter have at least one guard band between adjacent portions of
   spectrum of the spectral filters, and the guard band bandwidth is calculated based on an
   amount of blue shift occurring when viewing portions of the spectrally separated images at
25 an angle through the lenses. In one embodiment, the guard band has a bandwidth sufficient
   to reduce crosstalk of spectrally separated images viewed through the glasses. The guard
   band comprises, for example, approximately 2% or more of a wavelength of a crossover
   point of adjacent portions of the spectral filters.
            In another embodiment, the invention comprises a spectral separation viewing
30 system, comprising, viewing glasses, comprising a first lens having a first spectral filter, and
   a second lens having a second spectral filter complementary to the first spectral filter,
   wherein the spectral filters include a guard band between adjacent portions of spectrum of

                                                 - 34
   the first and second lenses, and the lenses have a curvature configured to cause angles of
   incidence of light at edges of the lenses to be closer to normal when compared to flat lenses.
   The curvature of the lenses are, for example, spherical. In one embodiment, the spectral
   filters are not uniform across the lenses. In various other embodiments, the viewing system
 5 further comprises, for example, a projection system configured to project first and second
   spectrally separated images, and the first and second spectrally separated images are each
   respectively viewed through the spectral filters of the viewing glasses. The viewing system
   may also further comprise, for example, a plurality of pairs of said viewing glasses, each
   pair of viewing glasses being assigned to an individual viewer in a movie theater audience,
10 and the first and second filters are disposed on lenses of each pair of glasses.
            In yet another embodiment, the invention comprises a method, comprising the steps
   of, projecting first and second spectrally separated images onto a display screen, viewing the
   projected images through a pair of glasses having a first lens having a first spectral filter
   designed to be used with the first spectrally separated image and a second lens having a
15 second spectral filter designed to be used with the second spectrally separated image, and
   wherein the spectral filters are configured to have an amount of wavelength shift effect
   depending upon a viewing angle through the lens. In one embodiment, adjacent portions of
   spectrum of the first and second spectral filters are separated by a guard band comprising a
   bandwidth calculated for a central viewing location and sufficient to eliminate crosstalk for
20 normal viewing from edges of the display screen. In yet another embodiment, the spectral
   filters comprise a plurality of guard bands each separating a different set of adjacent
   spectrums in the first and second filters, and a bandwidth of each guard band is determined
   based on a function of a crossover wavelength of the adjacent spectrums and a viewing angle
   to an edge of the display screen. The display screen is, for example, a cinema movie screen.
25          In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises a 3D viewing system,
   comprising means for projecting spectrally separated images, means for viewing the
   spectrally    separated   images   through different      ocular channels,   and means     for
   compensating for wavelength shifts occurring due to viewing angles to portions of the
   images. In one embodiment, the means for compensating includes, for example, means for
30 adjusting an amount of spectral filtering performed based on viewing angle. In another
   embodiment, the means for compensating includes, for example, means for producing a
   wavelength mismatch between projector filters used to project the spectrally separated

                                                  - 35
   images and eye filters used to view the spectrally separated images, wherein the mismatch
   compensates for an amount of wavelength shift that occurs in the eye filters due to light
   incident upon the eye filters at non-normal angles.
            In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises a viewing system,
 5 comprising shaped glasses comprising a pair of left and right spectrally complementary
   filters respectively disposed on left and right curved lenses of the glasses, and a display
   system configured to display spectrally separated left and right images respectively
   configured to be viewed through the left and right complimentary filters, wherein each
   spectrally separated image comprises at least one light bandwidth approximately matching
10 at least one pass band of its corresponding filter. The display system further comprises, for
   example, a projector configured to display the spectrally separated left and right images with
   a pre-determined       amount of pre-blue        shift. In one embodiment, the        spectrally
   complementary filters comprise guard bands between adjacent spectrums of the spectrally
   complementary filters. The shaped glasses of the viewing system, are, for example, utilized
15 to view color shifted projections of spectrally complementary images. In one embodiment,
   the shaped glasses of the viewing system include frame temples and a bridge designed to
   flex implementing an adjustable dihedral angle between the lenses. An amount of the
   dihedral angle change due to flexing is, for example, approximately 5 degrees.
            In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises a method, comprising
20 the steps of, distributing shaped glasses to audience members; and projecting first and second
   spectrally complementary images on a display screen within view of the audience members,
   wherein the shaped glasses comprise first and second shaped lenses having first and second
   spectrally complementary filters respectively disposed thereon, and the first and second
   spectrally complementary filters respectively correspond in bandwidth to the projected first
25 and second spectrally complementary images. In one embodiment, the bandwidth
   correspondence of the first spectrally complimentary filter passes colors in a first channel of
   a projection and blocks colors in a second channel of the projection, and the bandwidth
   correspondence of the second spectrally complimentary filter passes colors in a second
   channel of a projection and blocks colors in a first channel of the projection.
30          In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises a storage medium
   having a visual performance stored thereon, that, when loaded into a media player coupled

                                                  - 36
   to a display device, causes the media player to transmit the visual performance for display
   to the display device, wherein the visual performance comprises spectrally separated images
   configured to be viewed respectively through independent ocular channels using curved
   spectrally separated filters. The storage medium is, for example, prepackaged with at least
 5 one pair of glasses having curved lenses upon which the curved spectrally separated filters
   are disposed. The spectrally separated images are, for example, displayed by the display
   device using filters that are blue shifted compared to filtering that occurs through normal
   angle viewing of the curved spectrally separated filters. The spectrally separated images are,
   for example, separated by a guard band configured to compensate for spectra mismatch
10 between the projected images and properties of filters used to view the projected images.
   The combination of pre-blue shifting, curved lenses, and guard bands effectively eliminates
   crosstalk when viewing the images.
            In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises, for example, a system
   for viewing 3D images, comprising, serving 3D content over a network to a receiving
15 electronic device, projecting the 3D content to a display device, wherein the 3D content
   comprises spectrally complementary images intended to be viewed with shaped glasses. The
   receiving electronic device comprises, for example, a display system located at a movie
   theater. In one embodiment, the projected 3D content is projected with a predetermined
   amount of blue-shift.
20          In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises a method of displaying
   an 3-D image, comprising the steps of, projecting left and right filtered images onto a screen,
   and filtering the left and right images for each of spectrally specific properties corresponding
   to the image prior to display on the screen, wherein the filtering is performed with a filter
   having characteristics that are shifted an amount configured to compensate for a wavelength
25 shift that occurs when a viewer watches the screen. The wavelength shift comprises, for
   example, a blue-shift that occurs due to viewing angles (which may be, for example, a blue
   shift that occurs in characteristics of an eye filter used to view the images, or, as another
   example, a blue-shift occurring in filtered viewing glasses when viewing any of the images
   through the filtered viewing glasses at other than a normal angle). The spectrally specific
30 properties corresponding to the image comprise, for example, a set of wavelengths
   corresponding to the right images and a complimentary set of wavelengths corresponding to
   the left images.

                                                   -37
            In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises a projector filter,
   comprising, a first filter having a first set of primary passbands, and a second filter having a
   second set of primary passbands, wherein the first set of primary passbands has a different
   number of primary passbands than the second filter. In one embodiment, the first filter has,
 5 for example, at least two blue primary passbands and the second filter has at least one blue
   primary passband. In another embodiment, the first filter has, for example, at least two green
   primary passbands and the second filter has at least one green primary. In another
   embodiment, the first filter has, for example, two blue primaries and two green primaries
   and the second filter has one blue primary and one green primary. In another embodiment,
10 the first filter has, for example, passband wavelengths of approximately 400 to 440 nm and
   484 to 498 nm, 514 to 528 nm, 567 to 581 nm, and 610 to 623 nm. The second filter has, for
   example, passband wavelengths of approximately 455 to 471 nm, 539 to 556 nm, and 634
   to 700 nm. The passband wavelength specifications have a tolerance of, for example,
   approximately +- 5 nm. In one embodiment, the primary passbands of the first filter excludes
15 wavelengths passed by the second filter. In one embodiment, the primary passbands of the
   filters are selected to maximize reproduction of a color space of a projector. The projector
   color space is, for example, the color space of a D-Cinema projector. In one embodiment,
   the the projector filter is an electronically switchable filter that switches between the first
   and second filters according to an image synchronization signal.
20          In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises a system for projection
   of spectrally separated 3D images, comprising, a projection system configured to project left
   and right channel images for display by a viewer, a filter placed in at least one light path of
   the projection system comprising a left channel filter and a right channel filter, wherein at
   least one of the left and right channel filters has more than 3 primary passbands. In one
25 embodiment, one of the left and right channel filters has at least 2 primary passbands in blue
   wavelengths. In one embodiment, one of the left and right channel filters has at least 2
   primary passbands in green wavelengths. In one embodiment, one of the left and right eye
   channel filters has at least 2 primary passbands in blue wavelengths and at least 2 primary
   passbands in green wavelengths. In one embodiment, the primary passbands of the filters are
30 selected to maximize reproduction of a color space of the projection system in images
   projected by the projection system. In one embodiment, the system further comprises a color
   correction module configured to color correct images projected by the projection system

                                                   -38
   according to a color space of the filters. Alternatively, the color correction module is
   configured to color correct images based on a color space of light passed by the filter.
            In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises a pair of projector
   spectral separation filters configured to divide a blue projector primary into three sub-parts,
 5 a green projector primary into three sub-parts, and a red projector primary into to two sub
   parts. One of the filters has, for example, two passbands in blue, two passbands in green, and
   a single passband in red, and the other filter has one passband in blue, one passband in green,
   and one passband in red. In another embodiment, one of the filters has, for example, two
   passbands in blue, two passbands in green, and only one passband in red, and the other filter
10 has only one passband in blue, only one passband in green, and only one passband in red. In
   one embodiment, one of the filters has, for example, two passbands in blue, one passband in
   green, and one passband in red, and the other filter has one passband in blue, two passbands
   in green, and one passband in red. In another embodiment, one of the filters has, for example,
   two passbands in blue, only one passband in green, and only one passband in red, and the
15 other filter has only one passband in blue, two passbands in green, and only one passband in
   red. In one embodiment, one of the filters has one passband in blue, two passbands in green,
   and one passband in red, and the other filter has two passbands in blue, one passband in
   green, and one passband in red. In another embodiment, one of the filters has only one
   passband in blue, two passbands in green, and only one passband in red, and the other filter
20 has two passbands in blue, only one passband in green, and only one passband in red. In one
   embodiment, the sub-part passbands are located to achieve a substantial match to an original
   color space and white point of an unfiltered D-Cinema projector.
            In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises, for example, a set of
   color filters, comprising, a first filter having a first set of primary color passbands, a second
25 filter having a second set of primary color passbands of different wavelengths compared to
   the first set of primary colors, wherein the first filter has more than one primary color in at
   least one color band. The filter set is embodied, for example, as an electronically switchable
   filter set. In one embodiment, the color filter set is part of a 3D projection system and the
   primary passbands of the first and second filters are selected to maximize reproduction of a
30 color space of the 3D projection system without the first and second filters.

                                                   - 39
            In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises, for example, a method,
   comprising the steps of, preparing a 3D image comprising a left image and a right image,
   filtering the left image with a left channel filter, filtering the right image with a right channel
   filter, and projecting the left and right filtered images onto a screen, wherein at least one of
 5 the left channel filter and right channel filter have more than 3 primary passbands. One of
   the left and right channel filters comprises, for example, 2 primary passbands in blue
   wavelengths and 2 primary passbands in green wavelengths. In one embodiment, the method
   further comprises, for example, a step of viewing the projected 3-D image through left and
   right viewing filters having passbands that respectively exclude passbands of the right
10 channel filter and the left channel filter. In another embodiment, the method further
   comprises, for example, a step of switching the left and right channel filters in synchronicity
   with the projection of left and right channel images of the 3D image.
            In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises, for example, a 3D
   viewing system comprising a first asymmetric filter set comprising a projection filter and a
15 viewing filter. In one embodiment, the 3D viewing system may further comprise, for
   example, a second asymmetric filter set wherein the first asymmetric filter set. is positioned
   in an optical path of the system and configured to pass wavelengths of a first channel of the
   system and the second filter set is configured to pass wavelengths of a second channel of the
   system. In another embodiment, the viewing filter includes passbands that encompass
20 passbands of the projection filter. In yet another embodiment, the viewing filter includes, for
   example, passbands that approximately encompass passbands of the projection filter; and
   the passbands of the projection filter are blue-shifted compared to the passbands of the
   viewing filter.
            In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises an asymmetric filter
25 system, comprising, a first set of filters comprising a first set of optical passbands, a second
   set of filters comprising a second set of optical passbands different from the first set of optical
   passbands and encompassing the first set of optical passbands. In one embodiment, the first
   set of filters is upstream in an optical path relative to the second set of filters. In another
   embodiment, the first set of filters comprise a projection filter and the second set of filters
30 comprise a viewing filter. In another embodiment, the first set of optical passbands
   comprises a right channel set of optical passbands and a left channel set of optical passbands
   that exclude any portion of the right channel set of optical passbands. In another

                                                  -40
   embodiment, the second set of optical passbands include a left channel set of optical
   passbands and a right channel set of optical passbands that exclude any portion of the left
   channel optical passbands.
           In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises a method, comprising
 5 the steps of, providing a theater audience with a pair of 3D viewing glasses comprising left
   and right lenses respectively comprising left and right viewing filters, and projecting left and
   right images onto a display screen using left and right projection filters, wherein the left
   projection filter and the left viewing filter comprise a first asymmetric filter set and the right
   projection filter and the right viewing filter comprise a second asymmetric filter set. In one
10 embodiment, a total number of passbands in the viewing filters is less than a total number of
   passbands in the projection filters. In one embodiment, the projector filters comprise
   passbands that divide blue light wavelengths into at least three blue sub-parts and that divide
   green wavelengths into at least two green sub-parts. In one embodiment, a viewing filter in
   one of the asymmetric filter sets comprises a passband that encompasses wavelengths in the
15 longest wavelength blue sub-part and wavelengths in a green sub-part. In one embodiment,
   the projector filters comprise passbands that divide green light wavelengths into at least three
   sub-parts and divide red light into at least two red sub-parts, and a viewing filter in one of
   the asymmetric filter sets comprises a passband that encompasses a longest wavelength
   green sub-part and a red sub-part. In one embodiment, the projector filters comprise
20 passbands that divide blue light wavelengths into at least three sub-parts and green light
   wavelengths into at least three sub-parts, and a viewing filter in one of the asymmetric filter
   sets comprises a passband that encompasses a longest wavelength blue sub-part and a
   shortest wavelength green sub-part. In one embodiment, the projector filters comprise
   passbands that divide green light wavelengths into at least three sub-parts and red light
25 wavelengths into at least three sub-parts, and a viewing filter in one of the asymmetric filter
   sets comprises a passband that encompasses a longest wavelength green sub-part and a
   shortest wavelength red sub-part. In one embodiment, each viewing filter comprises, three
   passbands exclusively comprising one passband including blue wavelengths, one passband
   including green wavelengths, and one passband including red wavelengths. In one
30 embodiment, the projector filters comprise 3 passbands each in green and blue light
   wavelengths and two passbands in red wavelengths. In one embodiment, the viewing filters
   each exclusively comprises three passbands, one passband of blue wavelengths, one

                                                 -41
   passband of green wavelengths, and one passband of red wavelengths. Other exemplary
   embodiments have been provided throughout the present disclosure.
           In yet another embodiment, the present invention comprises a filter configurable in
   an eyewear device of a spectrally separated 3D viewing system, comprising a set of
 5 passbands and blocking bands configured to pass light wherein at least one of the passbands
   is capable of passing bands of 2 different colors of light and the blocking bands are
   configured to block light in at least one band of light in each of the 2 different colors. In one
   embodiment, the passband capable of passing bands of 2 different colors of light does not
   pass light in a third color. In one embodiment, the bands of 2 different colors of light are
10 separated by a notch. The notch is, for example, a band (a notch band) not utilized by the 3D
   viewing system for light transmission. In one embodiment, the notch band is, for example,
   relatively narrow compared to the bands of 2 different colors of light. In another
   embodiment, the notch band bandwidth is similar to a bandwidth of at least one of the bands
   of 2 different colors of light. In one embodiment, the notch band encompasses a transition
15 from wavelengths of a first of the 2 different colors of light to wavelengths of a second of
   the two different colors of light. In one embodiment, the 2 different colors of light comprise
   blue light and green light and the third color comprises red. In one embodiment, the 2
   different colors of light comprise red light and green light and the third color comprises blue.
   In one embodiment, the filter is disposed on a curved substrate. In one embodiment, the filter
20 is disposed on a curved substrate having a radius of approximately 90mm. In one
   embodiment, the filter is disposed on a curved lens having a radius of approximately 40mm
   to 200mm.
           In one embodiment, the present invention comprises a filter comprising only 3
   mutually exclusive passbands of visible light, a first passband configured to pass only a first
25 color of light, a second passband configured to pass 2 spectrum adjacent colors of light
   comprising the first color of light and a second color of light, and a third passband configured
   to pass 2 spectrum adjacent colors of light comprising the second color of light and a third
   color of light. In one embodiment, the first second and third colors of light are, for example,
   blue, green, and red, respectively. In another embodiment, the first, second, and third colors
30 of light are red, green, and blue, respectively. The filter is, for example, disposed on a lens
   configurable as a channel filter in a pair of 3D viewing glasses.

                                                 - 42
            In describing the preferred embodiments of the present invention illustrated in the
   drawings, specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However, the present
   invention is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected, and it is to be
   understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents which operate in a
 5 similar manner.
            For example, when describing a projector filter, any other equivalent device or device
   having an equivalent function or capability, whether or not listed herein, may be substituted
   therewith. In another example, when describing a dielectric layer, any other material used as
   filter and exhibiting a substantive wavelength shift (e.g., nano-material coatings), whether
10 used alone or in combination with others so as to have an equivalent function or capability,
   whether or not listed herein, may be substituted therewith. In another example, a flexible
   bridge piece may be substituted with any mechanism suitable to adjust a dihedral angle of
   the lens, including a ratchet mechanism, spring loaded stops, etc. In yet another example,
   lenses according to the present invention may be constructed of glass, plastic, or any other
15 such material providing the appropriate shapes as described above.
            Furthermore, the inventors recognize that newly developed technologies not now
   known may also be substituted for the described parts and still not depart from the scope of
   the present invention. All other described items, including, but not limited to lenses, layers,
   filters, wheels, screens, display devices, passbands, coatings, glasses, controllers, projectors,
20 display screens, networks or other transmission capabilities, etc should also be considered
   in light of any and all available equivalents.
            The present invention may suitably comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of,
   any of element (the various parts or features of the invention) and their equivalents as
   described herein. Further, the present invention illustratively disclosed herein may be
25 practiced in the absence of any element, whether or not specifically disclosed herein.
   Obviously, numerous modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in
   light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the
   appended claims, the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described
   herein.
30          Portions of the present invention may be conveniently implemented using a
   conventional general purpose or a specialized digital computer or microprocessor

                                                 - 43
   programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure, as will be apparent to those
   skilled in the computer art (e.g., controlling an electronically switched pre-blue shift
   projection filter).
           The present invention includes a computer program product which is a storage
 5 medium (media) that includes, but is not limited to, any type of disk including floppy disks,
   mini disks (MD's), optical discs, DVD, HD-DVD, Blue-ray, CD-ROMS, micro-drive, and
   magneto-optical disks, ROMs, RAMs, EPROMs, EEPROMs, DRAMs, VRAMs, flash
   memory devices (including flash cards, memory sticks), magnetic or optical cards, SIM
   cards, MEMS, nanosystems (including molecular memory ICs), RAID devices, remote data
10 storage/archive/warehousing, or any type of media or device suitable for storing instructions
   and/or data. The present invention includes software for controlling aspects of the present
   invention including, for example, switching of pre-blue shifted filters or performance of
   color correction stored on any computer readable medium (media).
           In addition, such media may include or exclusively contain content prepared or ready
15 for display according to the present invention. Such content is, for example, read from the
   media and then transmitted electronically over a network, broadcast over the air, or
   transmitted by wire, cable or any other mechanism. Ultimately, the content of such media
   may be provided to a display device and then viewed in accordance with one or more aspects
   of the invention. The content is, for example, prepared or optimized so as to project images
20 having bandwidths optimized for the display and viewing processes described herein. Such
   media may also be packaged with glasses and/or filters prepared according to one or more
   of the various aspects of the invention as described above.
           The present invention may suitably comprise, consist of, or consist essentially of,
   any of element (the various parts or features of the invention, e.g., shaped lenses, varying
25 dielectric layer thicknesses, pre-shifting projected or displayed images, etc., and/or any
   equivalents. Further, the present invention illustratively disclosed herein may be practiced
   in the absence of any element, whether or not specifically disclosed herein. Obviously,
   numerous modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the
   above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims,
30 the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein.

                                                - 44
          The term "comprise" and variants of that term such as "comprises" or "comprising"
  are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or integers but not to exclude any
  other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation
  of the term is required.
5         Reference to prior art disclosures in this specification is not an admission that the
  disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia or any other country.

                                                - 45
   CLAIMS:
    1.   Glasses for viewing an image displayed in a set of narrowband wavelengths, the glasses
         comprising lens filters configured to pass the set of narrowband wavelengths, wherein
         spectral properties of the filters are shifted toward longer wavelengths relative to the
 5       set of narrowband wavelengths.
    2.   The glasses according to Claim 1, wherein the shift toward longer wavelengths
         comprises a wavelength dependent shift such that longer wavelength pass areas of the
         filters have a different amount of shift compared to shorter wavelength pass areas of
         the filters.
10  3.   The glasses according to Claim 1, wherein the filters comprise guardbands between
         pass areas of a filter disposed on a first lens of the glasses and pass areas of a filter
         disposed on a second lens of the glasses.
    4.   The glasses according to Claim 2, wherein longer wavelength pass areas are shifted
         more than shorter wavelength pass areas.
15  5.   The glasses according to Claim 2, wherein the glasses comprise 3D viewing glasses
         and the limited set of narrowband wavelengths comprises a first set of wavelengths
         corresponding to but not matching pass areas of a first of the lens filters and a second
         set of wavelengths corresponding to but not matching pass areas of a second of the lens
         filters.
20  6.   The glasses according to Claim 5, wherein the pass areas of the lens filters encompass
         and are shifted relative to their corresponding narrowband wavelengths.
    7.   The glasses according to Claim 6, wherein the pass areas are shifted toward longer
         wavelengths relative to their corresponding narrowband wavelengths.
    8.   The glasses according to Claim 7, wherein the spectral properties of the lens filters vary
25       from one location to another.
    9.   The glasses according to Claim 7, wherein the pass areas are shifted toward longer
         wavelengths relative to their corresponding narrowband wavelengths, the spectral
         properties of the lens filters vary from one filter location to another location of the same
         lens filter.

                                              - 46
   10. A 3D venue, comprising at least one digital cinema projector configured to project at
       least part of 3D images for viewing by viewers at the venue, said viewers having glasses
       distributed to them upon entrance to the venue, and wherein said glasses include lens
       filters for viewing the 3D images, wherein the lens comprising a curvature, and wherein
 5     light wavelengths of the 3D images selected to increase matching of color viewed
       through the lenses.
   11. The 3D venue according to Claim 10, wherein the lens filters comprise passbands
       whose spectral properties increasingly red shift toward an edge of the filters.
   12. The 3D venue according to Claim 10, wherein the lens filters comprise passbands that
10     encompass and are offset relative to wavelengths of light intended to be passed by the
       passbands.
   13. The 3D venue according to any one of Claims 10 to 12 wherein the lenses comprise a
       polymer material and at least one layer that functions to implement the filter passbands,
       and    wherein    the   light  wavelengths     comprise   narrowband     wavelengths   on
15     approximately 25nm or less.
   14. A 3D venue, comprising a screen for viewing presentation of 3D images, at least one
       imaging device configured to display 3D images, and a distribution mechanism for
       distributing to viewers 3D glasses comprising lenses comprising wavelength dependent
       filters, wherein a first lens of the glasses is configured to pass light wavelengths of a
20     first channel of the 3D images and a second lens of the glasses configured to pass light
       wavelengths of a second channel of the 3D images, and wherein said glasses comprise
       a construction that incorporates a plurality of compensation mechanisms for viewing
       angle related changes in wavelength dependent specifications of the filters.
   15. The 3D venue according to Claim 14, wherein the plurality of compensation
25     mechanisms include at least one of flexible frame construction, selection of filter
       specifications offset from wavelengths of light intended to be passed through the lenses
       when viewed at a normal angle, passband characteristics that shift when traversing
       from a center to an edge of a lens, a red shift in filter characteristics compared to
       wavelengths of the 3D images.

                                            -47
   16. The 3D venue according to Claim 14, wherein said at least one imaging device
       comprises a plurality of projectors configured to project the 3D images in narrowband
       wavelengths of approximately 25nm or less.
   17. The 3D venue according to any one of Claims 14 to16 wherein the venue is a theater
 5     and the 3D images comprise images of narrowband wavelengths comprising red, green,
       and blue wavelengths.
   18. A 3D system comprising a 3D venue comprising a distribution system wherein patrons
       of the venue each receive a pair of 3D glasses for viewing 3D images displayed on a
       screen at the venue and wherein the 3D glasses comprise a filter specification for first
10     and second lenses of the glasses configured to respectively pass wavelengths of first
       and second channels of the 3D images and wherein a specification of wavelengths
       passed by each filter encompasses but does not match wavelengths of its corresponding
       respective 3D image channel.
   19. The 3D system according to Claim 18, wherein the 3D images displayed on a screen
15     comprise 3D images projected in narrowband wavelengths of approximately 25nm or
       less via a plurality of projectors.
   20. The 3D system according to Claim 18 wherein the 3D images displayed on a screen
       comprise images projected in narrowband wavelengths and wherein wavelengths
       passed by the first lens are passed between notch filters blocking wavelengths passed
20     by the second lens.
   21. The 3D system according to any one of Claims 18 to 20, wherein the lenses comprise
       a polycarbonate plastic comprising a layer configured to cause pass areas in a filter of
       each lens corresponding to but not matching the wavelengths passed by the lens.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
