              UTERINE COMPRESSION DEVICE FOR TREATMENT OF
                           POST-PARTUM HAEMORRHAGE
                                         Abstract
A method of decreasing uterine haemorrhaging in the treatment of post-partum
haemorrhage (PPH), the method comprising the steps of: inserting an uterine
compression treatment device having a compression means comprising a volume
changing portion, and a location device connected to the compression means, to a
haemorrhaging location around the enlarged uterus of the patient suffering post-partum
haemorrhage (PPH); and using the location device of the uterine compression treatment
device to adjust the compression means to compress the enlarged uterus and thereby
constrict the haemorrhaging blood flow at or near the haemorrhaging location to
ameliorate post-partum haemorrhage; and releasably locking the uterine compression
treatment device at a particular compression force.

          1/4
   11
                    21
                    36
32          145                   31
                         41
      24
                       N       23
                    22
                  -         35
         FIGURE 1

                                              1
               UTERINE COMPRESSION DEVICE FOR TREATMENT OF
                            POST-PARTUM HAEMORRHAGE
Field of the Invention
[001] The present invention relates to a uterine compression device and in particular
to a uterine compression device for treatment of post-partum haemorrhage
[002] The invention has been developed primarily for use in/with treatment of
postpartum haemorrhage and will be described hereinafter with reference to this
application.    However, it will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to this
particular field of use.
Background of the Invention
[003] The invention relates to the field of gynaecology and obstetrics and comprises a
device for treatment of post-partum haemorrhage enhancing the conventional
procedure.
[004] Post-Partum Haemorrhage (PPH) is a worldwide problem and is classified as an
excessive bleeding following delivery in women. Haemorrhage after childbirth, or
postpartum haemorrhage (PPH), is the loss of blood following childbirth resulting in
hypovolemia or otherwise causing a woman to become symptomatic due to the blood
loss. Some practitioners measure PPH by a blood loss of greater than 500 ml of blood
following vaginal birth, or about 1 litre of blood following caesarean section. It is one
of the most common causes of perinatal maternal death in the developing world and
is a major cause of maternal morbidity worldwide.
[005] In addition, the rising caesarean section rate adds to the rising incidence of PPH.
If not managed correctly, there may be major complications such as loss of fertility and
even maternal death.
[006] As stated in The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists outline of Management of Postpartum Haemorrhage (PPH) heavy
bleeding after a baby is born (postpartum haemorrhage) is a complication of
pregnancy that has the potential to be very serious, even resulting in death in rare
cases. Some women will have risk factors for heavy bleeding, but most will not

                                               2
meaning that it is very difficult to predict when heavy bleeding might occur. The use of
some simple measures - receiving a small dose of medication to help the uterus
contract after birth, clamping the baby's cord within a couple of minutes of birth, and
using gentle traction on the cord to help deliver the placenta - all reduce the risk of
heavy bleeding. When heavy bleeding occurs, the birth attendants must act quickly
and use proven techniques to stop the bleeding and help the woman recover. Women
who do have risk factors for heavy bleeding should only have their labour and birth in
a place that can provide adequate and safe care. When women are deciding where to
have a baby, one important consideration is whether that place has access to skilled
care and resources for managing heavy bleeding.
[007] A large number of risk factors for PPH have been identified but most cases of
PPH have no identifiable risk factor. For those women known to have risk factors for
PPH appropriate management should be instigated in both the antenatal and
intrapartum periods to mitigate this risk. Importantly, this should include discussion
with the woman and her family about the most appropriate place for delivery. Women
with significant risk factors for PPH should deliver in a unit with rapid access to blood
and blood products and have antenatal correction of anaemia.
[008] Active management of the third stage of labour (use of prophylactic oxytocics,
early cord clamping and controlled cord traction) is recommended to all pregnant
women as this reduces the risk of PPH and the need for blood transfusion.
[009] Management of PPH invariably involves addressing the causes of bleeding,
commonly known as 'the four Ts'. A fifth 'T' has been added to emphasise the
important role of theatre and surgery in managing all causes of PPH.
[0010] First T- Tone - uterine atony is the most common cause of primary PPH but
clinical assessment should be used to exclude other causes. The following
interventions have all been used to stop the bleeding, generally in the stepwise
progression as presented here. a) Mechanical: - Uterine massage or bimanual uterine
compression. - Empty bladder. b) Pharmacological: - Oxytocin (Syntocinon) by slow
intravenous injection or infusion. - Ergometrine by slow intravenous injection, in the
absence of contraindications. - Misoprostol (1000mcg) rectally. - Prostaglandin F2a
(500mcg increments up to 3mg) administered intra-muscularly or intra-myometrially.

                                            3
[0011] Second T - Trauma of the genital tract. Thorough assessment of the entire
genital tract is essential. The perineum, vagina and cervix should all be visually
inspected for bleeding sources. Pressure should be applied to bleeding areas and
repair attempted, either in the labour ward or the operating theatre if required. If the
patient is shocked and the amount of vaginal bleeding is normal, consider intra
abdominal sources such as ruptured uterus, broad ligament haematoma, subcapsular
liver rupture, ruptured spleen, and ruptured aneurysm).
[0012] Third T -Tissue - usually due to retained placenta, cotyledon or membranes. If
the placenta has been delivered assess for obvious missing tissue. Examine the
mother vaginally to assess the adherence of the placenta and if adherent repeat
oxytocic dose, empty the bladder and transfer to theatre for manual removal of
placenta.
 [0013] Fourth T - Thrombin (abnormalities of coagulation) - rarely the primary cause
of PPH and usually the consequence of massive haemorrhage and as such is
addressed briefly above. Specific discussion is beyond the scope of this guideline.
[0014] Fifth T - Theatre - surgical interventions should be initiated sooner rather than
later, especially hysterectomy in cases of uterine rupture, placenta accreta or
uncontrolled massive haemorrhage. a) Balloon tamponade. Several case series have
been published reporting the results of using a Foley catheter, Bakri balloon, Rusch
balloon or Sengstaken-Blackmore oesophageal catheter with good results where the
uterus is empty and contracting.1 b) Haemostatic brace suturing (such as the B-Lynch
suture) c) Bilateral ligation of uterine arteries. d) Bilateral ligation of internal iliac
arteries by an experienced operator. e) Selective arterial embolisation.             This
intervention can only be achieved in institutions with timely access to both radiological
expertise and equipment. It is important to note that time delays in accessing
embolisation can occur and should not preclude alternate surgical treatment. f)
Hysterectomy.
[0015] Uterine compression is an effective conservative surgery technique to avoid
hysterectomy and other major morbidities as well as a death. The main methods of
such techniques are compression sutures such as B-Lynch suture, Hayman's suture
and Cho's Square Suture. The compression sutures have been reported to effectively

                                              4
manage the hemorrhage in about 80% to 90% of cases if the suture is placed in an
expedient manner and by highly skilled surgeons.
[0016] Uterine compression sutures are considered the best form of surgical approach
for controlling atonic PPH as it helps in preserving the anatomical integrity of the
uterus. Uterine atony is the inability of the uterus to contract and may lead to
continuous bleeding. Retained placental tissue and infection may contribute to uterine
atony. Uterine atony is the most common cause of postpartum haemorrhage. Such
methods involve absorbable sutures left in situ, which disintegrate with time. Sutures
take time to disintegrate and are foreign materials to the human body. They have to
be applied by an experienced doctor.
[0017] Thus, long-term complications of conventional suturing include focal uterine
necrosis, haematometra, pyometra, Asherman's syndrome, sub-fertility, etc.
[0018] The present invention seeks to provide a device and or treatment for Post
Partum Haemorrhage (PPH), which will overcome or substantially ameliorate at least
one or more of the deficiencies of the prior art, or to at least provide an alternative.
[0019] It is to be understood that, if any prior art information is referred to herein, such
reference does not constitute an admission that the information forms part of the
common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
Summary of the Invention
[0020] According to a first aspect of the present invention, there is provided a method
of decreasing uterine haemorrhaging in the treatment of post-partum haemorrhage
(PPH), the method comprising the steps of: a) inserting an uterine compression
treatment device to a haemorrhaging location around the enlarged uterus of the
patient suffering post-partum      haemorrhage        (PPH);   and b) using the uterine
compression treatment device to compress the enlarged uterus and thereby constrict
the haemorrhaging blood flow at or near the haemorrhaging location to ameliorate
post-partum haemorrhage; and c) locking the uterine compression treatment device
at a particular compression force.
[0021] The method can further include the steps of: d) unlocking the uterine
compression treatment device at a particular compression force; e) adjusting the
uterine compression treatment device to an adjusted particular compression force; and

                                           5
f) locking the uterine compression treatment device        at the adjusted particular
compression force.
[0023] The method can further include the steps of: g) unlocking the uterine
compression treatment device; and h) retracting the uterine compression treatment
device from the haemorrhaging location around the uterus of the patient following
constriction of the post-partum haemorrhage (PPH).
[0024] Preferably the uterine compression treatment device comprises inserting a
compression means while having a connected retention portion of the compression
means in a locking device; wherein using the uterine compression treatment device
comprises inserting at least one connected location device to locate the compression
means in situ around the uterus.
[0025] The compression means can comprise one or more retraction threads. More
particularly the compression means may comprise at least one shaped mesh. The
compression means can comprise one or more retraction threads connected to a
shaped mesh.
[0026] Preferably the location device comprises one or more blunt penetration needles
connected to the retraction threads.
 [0027] The method can further comprise, after the inserting step, changing a volume
changing portion of the compression means of the uterine compression treatment
device from a delivery configuration in which the volume-changing portion is
predominantly shaped to be able to be inserted to a treatment configuration in which
at least part of the volume-changing portion surrounds the haemorrhaging location.
[0028] Preferably the locking device comprises a constriction device for frictionally
engaging and holding the volume-changing portion at the required volume to provide
the required compression force.
[0029] The method can provide the treatment comprising altering the required volume
of the volume-changing portion to provide the required altered compression force
around the uterus during amelioration of post-partum haemorrhage (PPH).
[0030] Also the invention in one form provides a device for decreasing uterine
haemorrhaging in the treatment of post-partum haemorrhage (PPH), the device

                                            6
comprising: a flexible, elongate body; a volume-changing portion of the compression
means of the uterine compression treatment device from a delivery configuration in
which the volume-changing portion is predominantly shaped to be able to be inserted
to a treatment configuration in which at least part of the volume-changing portion
surrounds the haemorrhaging location.
[0031] The device can be alterable from a first, low-profile configuration for facilitating
vaginal advancement into the patient to a second, expanded configuration for
surrounding a wall of the uterus, wherein at least one of the volume-changing member
or the elongate body in the second configuration has a diameter at least as large as
an average diameter of an enlarged uterus.
[0032] Preferably the elongate body comprises at least one member selected from the
group consisting of a wire, a mesh, a retraction thread and a location device.
[0033] The elongate body can have a proximal portion and a distal portion, and
wherein the volume-changing member and the at least one treatment member are
coupled between proximal portion and the distal portion.
[0034] Preferably the volume-changing member comprises a deformable member
coupled with the portion of a leading provider for feeding to the locking device, wherein
a diameter of the curved shape approximates the average diameter of the enlarged
uterus.
[0035] The invention in another form can provide a system for decreasing uterine
haemorrhaging in the treatment of post-partum haemorrhage (PPH), the system
comprising: an uterine compression treatment device , comprising: a flexible, elongate
body; a volume-changing        portion of the compression        means of the uterine
compression treatment device from a delivery configuration in which the volume
changing portion is predominantly shaped to be able to be inserted to a treatment
configuration in which at least part of the volume-changing portion surrounds the
haemorrhaging location; and at least one retraction member coupled with the elongate
body for providing a compression treatment that decreases activity of the at least
haemorrhaging uterine; and a control unit for controlling a compression treatment
delivered by the a volume changing portion of the compression means of the uterine
compression treatment device from a delivery configuration in which the volume
changing portion is predominantly shaped to be able to be inserted to a treatment

                                                7
configuration in which at least part of the volume-changing portion surrounds the
haemorrhaging location to decrease activity of the haemorrhaging uterus in a desired
amount over certain time periods while minimizing effects on nearby structures.
[0036] Preferably a non-transitory computer readable medium within the control unit
for directing the control unit to perform a method, the method comprising; providing a
first amount of compression treatment via uterine compression treatment device; and
adjusting the uterine compression treatment device to provide a different amount of
compression treatment.
[0037] Preferably the computer readable medium is further configured to direct the
control unit to: sense the first amount of compression force delivered from uterine
compression treatment device to the uterus; and change the amount of delivered
compression force, based           on the sensed amount and sensed               post-partum
haemorrhage (PPH) status.
[0038] Preferably the system further comprises an actuator coupled with a proximal
portion of the elongate body and extending to the volume-changing member for
changing the shape of the volume-changing member.
[0039] It can be seen that the invention provides the benefit of another method of
uterine compression technique. The proposed invention is a device, which utilizes
materials already used in medical practice. It is designed to be fitted around the uterus,
providing an effective compression without uterine penetration. Furthermore, the
degree of compression can be adjusted to the contracting uterus if required. Once the
compression is no longer needed, the device is easily retracted from the body avoiding
anaesthesia.
[0040] It can be seen that the invention of a retractable device provides many medical
advantages including:
i)      Unlike previously discussed methods the proposed device is relatively non
        invasive, as it does not involve suturing through already bleeding organ
        (uterus).
         ii)    It is retractable, allowing no foreign materials to be left in the body after
        treatment is completed.

                                           8
         iii)  Quick and easy application and removal of device requires minimal
       training and basic surgical skills.
         iv)   The device can be used in various ways according to clinical situations.
        v)     Unlike conventional methods of uterine compression, the proposed
       device allows the compression to be gradually increased if needed.
[0041] Other aspects of the invention are also disclosed.
Brief Description of the Drawings
[0042] Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within the scope of the present
invention, a preferred embodiment / preferred embodiments of the invention will now
be described, by way of example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings
in which:
Fig. 1 is a schematic representation of a device for decreasing uterine haemorrhage
in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention;
Fig. 2 is a schematic representation of a device in accordance with figure 1 in-situ
showing location devices and positioning in the uterus post-partum;
Fig. 3 shows constituent parts of the device for decreasing uterine haemorrhage in
accordance with figures 1 and 2;
Fig. 4 shows constituent parts of the device for decreasing uterine haemorrhage in
accordance with figures 1 and 2.
Description of Preferred Embodiments
[0043] It should be noted in the following description that like or the same reference
numerals in different embodiments denote the same or similar features.
[0023] Referring to the drawings there is shown a uterine compression treatment
device 11 for decreasing uterine haemorrhaging in the treatment of post-partum
haemorrhage (PPH).      The device comprises a flexible, elongate body 22 with a
volume-changing portion 35 forming an adjustable compression means of the uterine
compression treatment device adapted to form a delivery configuration in which the
volume-changing portion is predominantly shaped to be able to be inserted, to a

                                             9
treatment configuration in which at least part of the volume changing portion surrounds
the haemorrhaging location from a first, low-profile configuration for facilitating vaginal
advancement into the patient to a second, expanded configuration for surrounding a
wall of the uterus, wherein at least one of the volume-changing member or the
elongate body in the second configuration has a diameter at least as large as an
average diameter of an enlarged uterus.
[0024] In particular in figure 1, the elongated body 12 is formed by flexible
monofilament thread 23 which extends from one end at a penetration needle 31
forming a location device. The thread 23 extends as thread section 22 through edge
looping of an elongated isosceles triangular mesh 35 and through a tubular provider
41 to emerge at a top end to form a loop 21 and to re-enter the tubular provider 41.
The thread extends along the other edge looping of the elongated isosceles triangular
mesh 35 and extend as thread section 24 to the other end with a second penetration
needle 32 forming another location device.
[0025] The device 11 has a proximal portion of the protrusion of the loop 21 and a
distal portion, of the first and second penetration needles 31, 32.       Between these
proximal portion at the distal portion is the volume changing portion 13 formed by the
volume-changing member in the structure of an elongated isosceles triangular mesh
35 and which forms the at least one treatment member coupled between the proximal
portion and the distal portion. The volume-changing member comprises a deformable
mesh 35 coupled with the portion of a leading provider 41 for feeding to a locking
device 45. This locking device frictionally locks the thread 23 and portion of mesh 35
within the diameter of the provider with a particular loop portion 21 extending
therefrom.
[0026] The device provides the capability of a method of decreasing uterine
haemorrhaging in the treatment of post-partum haemorrhage (PPH), the method
comprising the steps of: a) inserting an uterine compression treatment device to a
haemorrhaging location around the enlarged uterus of the patient suffering post
partum haemorrhage (PPH); and b) using the uterine compression treatment device
to compress the enlarged uterus and thereby constrict the haemorrhaging blood flow
at or near the haemorrhaging location to ameliorate post-partum haemorrhage; and c)
locking the uterine compression treatment device at a particular compression force.

                                             10
[0032] Referring in particular to figure 2 the location devices 31, 32 being blunt
penetration needles are inserted into the mother post-partum and fed around the
enlarged uterus which can be haemorrhaging. The mesh 35 follow the thread 23 and
in at the location devices 31, 32. Therefore of his working of the thread 23 and the
mesh 35 a first volume is formed around the uterus. By the location devices 31 and
32 being fed up the leading provider 41 alongside end of the mesh 35 and exposed
loop 21 the first volume can be locked in position by the locking device 45 by a frictional
contraction around the leading tubular provider 41.
[0033] Therefore without requiring surgical expertise a compression mechanism is
provided to the extremities of the enlarged uterus and can assist in halting the
postpartum haemorrhaging.
[0034] Of the device also allows the elaboration of the method by further including the
steps of: d) unlocking the uterine compression treatment device at a particular
compression force; e) adjusting the uterine compression treatment device to an
adjusted particular compression force; and          f) locking the uterine compression
treatment device at the adjusted particular compression force.
[0035] Again this can be understood more clearly from figure 2 where the locking
device 45 can be released and the location devices 31, 32 and connecting threads 23,
24 further pulled through the provider 41 so that the connecting mesh 35 32 is reduced
in volume to a second volume around the uterus U. Not only growers this limit the
volume as the enlarged uterus reduces in size back to normal postpartum sizing
further can provide a selective increase or variation of compression for older the
extremities of the uterus further adjust and aid the restriction of the haemorrhaging.
[0036] Therefore a totally non-surgical treatment mechanism for postpartum
haemorrhaging is provided.
[0037] However the device further includes a substantial advantage that the method
further allows the steps of: g) unlocking the uterine compression treatment device; and
h) retracting the uterine compression treatment device from the haemorrhaging
location around the uterus of the patient following constriction of the post-partum
haemorrhage (PPH).

                                           11
[0038] In particular the method of inserting the uterine compression treatment device
comprises Inserting a compression means while having a connected retention portion
of the compression means in a locking device; wherein using the uterine compression
treatment device comprises inserting at least one connected location device to locate
the compression means in situ around the uterus.
[0039] Further the construction and shaping of the constituent parts of the system
including the compression means formed from one or more retraction threads and at
least one shaped mesh and the location device comprising one or more blunt
penetration needles connected to the retraction threads means that the structure is
readily assembled in the disassembled and comprises of radically cleanable
replaceable parts.
[0040] However the first aspect of the benefits of the method provided by the shape
and constituent parts other they are able to be inserted non-surgically postpartum by
medical officer in one substantially planar and even linear format. The method can
then proceed after the inserting step, into forming a first volume around the enlarged
uterus and selectively changing a volume-changing portion of the compression means
of the uterine compression treatment device from a delivery configuration in which the
volume-changing portion is predominantly shaped to be able to be inserted to a
treatment configuration in which at least part of the volume- changing portion
surrounds the haemorrhaging location.
[0041] The locking device comprises a constriction device for frictionally engaging and
holding the volume-changing portion at the required volume to provide the required
compression force wherein it provides the treatment of altering the required volume of
the volume-changing portion to provide the required altered compression force around
the uterus during amelioration of post-partum haemorrhage (PPH).
[0042] Overall in use there is provided a system for decreasing uterine haemorrhaging
in the treatment of post-partum haemorrhage (PPH), the system comprising: an
uterine compression treatment device, comprising: a flexible, elongate body; a
volume-changing portion of the compression means of the uterine compression
treatment device from a delivery configuration in which the volume-changing portion
is predominantly shaped to be able to be inserted to a treatment configuration in which
at least part of the volume-changing portion surrounds the haemorrhaging location;

                                               12
and at least one retraction member coupled with the elongate body for providing a
compression treatment that decreases activity of the at least haemorrhaging uterine;
and a control unit for controlling a compression treatment delivered by the a volume
changing portion of the compression means of the uterine compression treatment
device from a delivery configuration in which the volume-changing portion is
predominantly shaped to be able to be inserted to a treatment configuration in which
at least part of the volume-changing portion surrounds the haemorrhaging location.
 [0043] The system further comprises a non-transitory computer readable medium
within the control unit for directing the control unit to perform a method, the method
comprising; providing a first amount of compression treatment via uterine compression
treatment device; and adjusting the uterine compression treatment device to provide
a different amount of compression treatment.
[0044] The system can have a computer readable medium which is further configured
to direct the control unit to: sense the first amount of compression force delivered from
uterine compression treatment device           to the uterus; and change the amount of
delivered compression force, based on the sensed amount and sensed post-partum
haemorrhage (PPH) status.
 Interpretation Embodiments:
 [0045]    Reference throughout this specification to "one embodiment" or "an
embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or characteristic described in
connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present
invention.    Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one embodiment" or "in an
embodiment" in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all
referring to the same embodiment, but may.           Furthermore, the particular features,
structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner, as would be
apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure, in one or more
embodiments.
[0046] Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of example
embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes
grouped together in a single embodiment, figure, or description thereof for the purpose
of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the
various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure, however, is not to be interpreted

                                              13
as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are
expressly recited in each claim.      Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive
aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus,
the claims following the Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments are hereby
expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description of Specific Embodiments, with
each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this invention.
[0047] Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not
other features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different
embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form different
embodiments, as would be understood by those in the art.             For example, in the
following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination.
Different Instances of Objects
[0048] As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives
"first", "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that
different instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply
that the objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally, spatially,
in ranking, or in any other manner.
Specific Details
[0049] In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth.
However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without
these specific details.      In other instances, well-known methods, structures and
techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of
this description.
Terminology
[0050] In describing the preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in the
drawings, specific terminology will be resorted to for the sake of clarity. However, the
invention is not intended to be limited to the specific terms so selected, and it is to be
understood that each specific term includes all technical equivalents which operate in
a similar manner to accomplish a similar technical purpose. Terms such as "forward",
"rearward", "radially", "peripherally", "upwardly", "downwardly", and the like are used

                                             14
as words of convenience to provide reference points and are not to be construed as
limiting terms.
Comprising and Including
[0051] In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the invention,
except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" are
used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not
to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various embodiments of the
invention.
[0052] Any one of the terms: including or which includes or that includes as used herein
is also an open term that also means including at least the elements/features that
follow the term, but not excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with and
means comprising.
Scope of Invention
[0053] Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred
embodiments of the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and
further modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the
invention, and it is intended to claim all such changes and modifications as fall within
the scope of the invention.      For example, any formulas given above are merely
representative of procedures that may be used. Functionality may be added or deleted
from the block diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional
blocks. Steps may be added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the
present invention.
[0054] Although the invention has been described with reference to specific examples,
it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in
many other forms.
Industrial Applicability
[0055] It is apparent from the above, that the arrangements described are applicable
to the medical industries.

                                            15
Claims
1. A method of decreasing uterine haemorrhaging in the treatment of post-partum
haemorrhage (PPH), the method comprising the steps of:
        a. inserting an uterine compression treatment device having a compression
means comprising a volume changing portion, and a location device connected to the
compression means, to a haemorrhaging location around the enlarged uterus of the
patient suffering post-partum haemorrhage (PPH); and
        b. using the location device of the uterine compression treatment device to
adjust the compression means to compress the enlarged uterus and thereby constrict
the haemorrhaging blood flow at or near the haemorrhaging location to ameliorate
post-partum haemorrhage; and
        c. releasably locking the uterine compression treatment device at a particular
compression force.
2. A method according to claim 1 further including the steps of:
        d. unlocking the uterine compression treatment device at a particular
compression force;
        e. adjusting the uterine compression treatment device to an adjusted particular
compression force; and
       f. locking the uterine compression treatment device at the adjusted particular
compression force.
3. A method according to claim 1, wherein inserting the uterine compression treatment
device comprises
        a. Inserting the compression means while having a connected retention portion
of the compression means in a locking device;
        b. wherein using the uterine compression treatment device comprises inserting
at least one connected location device to locate the compression means in situ around
the uterus.
4. A device for decreasing uterine haemorrhaging in the treatment of post-partum
haemorrhage (PPH), the device comprising:

                                              16
       a. a flexible, elongate body;
       b. a volume-changing portion of the compression means of the uterine
compression treatment device from a delivery configuration in which the volume
changing portion is predominantly shaped to be able to be inserted to a treatment
configuration in which at least part of the volume changing portion surrounds the
haemorrhaging location.
       c. from a first, low-profile configuration for facilitating vaginal advancement into
the patient to a second, expanded configuration for surrounding a wall of the uterus,
wherein at least one of the volume-changing member or the elongate body in the
second configuration has a diameter at least as large as an average diameter of an
enlarged uterus.
5. A system for decreasing uterine haemorrhaging in the treatment of post-partum
haemorrhage (PPH), the system comprising:
       a. an uterine compression treatment device, comprising:
       b. a flexible, elongate body;
       c. a volume-changing portion of the compression means of the uterine
compression treatment device from a delivery configuration in which the volume
changing portion is predominantly shaped to be able to be inserted to a treatment
configuration in which at least part of the volume changing portion surrounds the
haemorrhaging location; and
       d. at least one retraction member coupled with the elongate body for providing
a compression treatment that decreases activity of the at least haemorrhaging uterine;
and
       e. a control unit for controlling a compression treatment delivered by the a
volume-changing portion of the compression means of the uterine compression
treatment device from a delivery configuration in which the volume-changing portion
is predominantly shaped to be able to be inserted to a treatment configuration in which
at least part of the volume changing portion surrounds the haemorrhaging location.
       f. to decrease activity of the haemorrhaging uterus in a desired amount over
certain time periods while minimizing effects on nearby structures.

                             1/4
<removed-date>
                   11
                                         21
                                         36
<removed-apn>
                                        45
              32
                                                        31
                                              41
                        24
                                                   23
                                         22
                                               35
                             FIGURE 1

                             2/4
<removed-date>
                                                   23
                                             24
                        36
<removed-apn>
                       45                               32
                                                        31
                       41
                  35
                                              23
              U
                                        24
                                        35
                             FIGURE 2

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      3/4
FIGURE 3

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                      4/4
FIGURE 4

