                                           ABSTRACT
Systems and methods for controlling the position of a user of a wearable positional therapy
device (100) are provided. The wearable position therapy device (100) can be configured to
monitor and store physiological signals that can be used to assess sleep quality and sleeping
position of a user. The device (100) can be configured to be worn around the head, the neck,
or body of the user. The device can be configured to provide feedback to a user if the user is
sleeping or is positioned in a target position to induce the user to change positions. The
feedback can be provided by one or more haptic motors that can be configured to provide
various levels of feedback and the level of feedback can be customized based on the user's
reaction to the feedback.
9327528

              SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CONTROLLING POSITION
                                       Field of the Invention
[001A] The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No.
2014262250, the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. The
present application also relates to Australian Patent Application No. 2010256401, the content
of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
[001]   The present invention generally relates to the field of treating sleep disorders and
more specifically to systems and methods using position therapy (PDT) to treat sleep
disorders.
                                            Background
[002]    Sleep disordered breathing which results in the diagnosis of Obstructive Sleep Apnea
("OSA") occurs as a result of a partial or complete collapse of the upper airway during sleep.
Snoring is the first indication of an airway susceptible to collapse and can lead to inspiratory
flow limitation. Greater obstruction resulting in a partial collapse of the airway causes
hypopneas and recognizable changes in tidal volume. Full collapse results in a cessation in
breathing, events commonly referred to as apneas. The apnea/hypopnea index (AHI) is the
measure used to define OSA severity and is based on the total number of sleep disordered
breathing events per hour of sleep.
[003]   When a patient with OSA is in the supine position, gravity increases the susceptibility
of the airway to partial or full collapse during sleep. The most frequently cited effect of
gravity on the soft tissue of the pharynx is tendency of the tongue to fall back against the
palate causing the narrowing of an already compromised airway. A susceptible airway, by
way of example, may result in loud snoring in the supine position and limited or no snoring
the non-supine position. A more compromised airway may exhibit loud snoring in the non
supine position and repeated hypopneas (partial collapse) or apneas (full collapse) in the
supine position. This pattern is typically associated with patients with 'positional' sleep
disordered breathing. In patients with severely compromised airways, known as 'non
positional' OSA, the pharynx may partially collapse during non-supine sleep and fully
collapses in the supine position. The influence of gravity during supine sleep contributes to a
reduction in lung volume and oxygen stores and contributes to increased levels of oxygen
desaturation during obstructive breathing.
[004]   Evidence suggest that patients with positional and non-positional OSA form two
distinct but overlapping etiologies in which airway length and craniofacial features
                                                  1
141
  AjRR1

influence genioglossal responsiveness to negative pressure pulses in the lateral position.
Estimate of the prevalence of positional OSA (i.e., the supine AHI is at least two times
greater than the non-supine AIM) among all those diagnosed with OSA range from 55 to
65%), and after excluding those who sleep almost exclusively on their back (e.g., > 95% of
the night), over 50% of patients diagnosed with sleep could reduce their AHI by at least
50% and/or into a normal range by avoiding sleep in the supine position. Studies have
shown that position therapy can contribute to a significant drop in blood pressure in patients
with Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA) because supine sleep increases the severity of OSA.
Position therapy can be combined with other therapies to enhance outcomes in the treatment
of sleep disordered breathing.    Several investigators have demonstrated nasal continuous
positive airway pressure (CPAP) pressures can be reduced if patients sleep lateral instead of
supine and increased CPAP compliance has been associated with lower pressures.
[005]   A plethora of shirts, vests, belts, pillows and other inventions have attempted to
address the need for positional therapy to reduce the severity of snoring or sleep apnea by
using mechanical means that essentially makes it uncomfortable for a user to sleep supine.
Some examples of these devices include a knapsack stuffed with Styrofoam to provide a
bulky alternative to tennis balls, which makes it impossible to sleep supine. At least one
study has demonstrated that this type of position restriction provides limited to no clinical
efficacy due to non-compliance.     The greatest limitation of these approaches is that the
therapy is initiated prior to the patient falling asleep.    As shown with CPAP therapy,
patients are much more tolerant of therapy if it is initiated after the patients have fallen
asleep.
[006]   The number of electronic devices invented to limit supine sleep is substantially less.
One device, described in U.S. Patent No. 5,081,447, employs the use of two gravity position
sensors and an audio alarm to trigger the user to change position. One of the limitations of
this approach is a bed-partner of the user would also be awakened each time the alarm is
triggered. An alternative approach, described in U.S. Patent No. 5,381,801, limits supine
sleep by applying electromechanical vibration using motors inserted into pockets of a belt
worn by a user.     Application of the tactile stimulus is dependent on the closing of an
electronic switch within the pocket of the belt that is triggered by contact with the
underlying surface of the sleeper.
[0071   Positional therapy holds the potential to provide important therapeutic benefit for a
number of medical conditions. For example, over 63% of patients with acute ischemic
                                               2

stroke sleep the entire night in the supine position. Sleep in the supine position also increases
the severity of Cheyne-Stokes i.e., respiration i.e., central sleep apnea. Avoiding supine sleep
during the second and third trimesters of pregnancy would reduce pressure on a vena cava
vein and improve blood flow to the fetus. An adjustment in the application of position
feedback would assist patients recovering from hip surgery avoid sleep in the non-supine
position. The measurement of and feedback related to the position of the elements of the body
(e.g., arm, leg, hand, wrist, ankle, knee, etc.) could be useful in injury rehabilitation or in
training or performance which requires the user to find or maintain a specific
position/posture. Thus, the potential benefit of positional therapy is clear, but conventional
systems and methods to affect or influence sleep position have been largely ineffective.
                                             Summary
[007A] It is an object of the present invention to substantially overcome or at least ameliorate
one or more of the above disadvantages.
[007B] According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a method for
assessing efficacy of position therapy using a position therapy device, the method
comprising:
         providing position therapy to a user while the user is wearing a wearable position
therapy device, wherein the position therapy comprises, by the wearable position therapy
device,
                 collecting positional data via a position detector of the wearable position
         therapy device while the user is wearing the wearable position therapy device,
                 based on the positional data, determining positions of the user over a time
         period, and,
                 when it is determined that the user is in a supine position, by a feedback
         generator of the wearable position therapy device, providing feedback to influence the
         user to change to a non-supine position, and
         providing an assessment of the efficacy of the position therapy, based on a measure of
time spent in the supine and non-supine positions and at least one additional measure.
                                                  3
1A1iRRi1

[007C] According to an aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a method for
providing position therapy using a position therapy device, the method comprising:
        providing position therapy to a user while the user is wearing a wearable position
therapy device, wherein the position therapy comprises, by the wearable position therapy
device,
                collecting positional data via a position detector of the wearable position
        therapy device while the user is wearing the wearable position therapy device,
                based on the positional data, determining positions of the user over a time
        period, and,
                when it is determined that the user is in a supine position, adaptively
        delivering feedback by increasing a number of feedback generators used until the user
        changes to a non-supine position,
                wherein the feedback generators comprise a plurality of haptic motors.
[007D] According to another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a system
comprising:
        a wearable position therapy device comprising a position detector and a feedback
generator, wherein the wearable position therapy device provides position therapy to a user,
while the user is wearing the wearable position therapy device, by
                collecting positional data via the position detector while the user is wearing
        the wearable position therapy device,
                based on the positional data, determining positions of the user over a time
        period, and,
                when it is determined that the user is in a supine position, by the feedback
        generator, providing feedback to influence the user to change to a non-supine
        position; and
        one or more software modules that, when executed by a processor, provide an
assessment of the efficacy of the position therapy, based on a measure of time spent in the
supine and non-supine positions and at least one additional measure.
[008]   Systems and methods for controlling the position of a user of a wearable positional
therapy device are provided. In one aspect, the wearable position therapy device is configured
to monitor and store physiological signals that can be used to assess sleep quality and
sleeping position of a user as well as during other activities. The device can be configured to
be worn around the head, the neck, or body of the user and/or can comprise of more than one
unit that are connected wirelessly to share information. The device can be configured to
provide feedback to a user if the user is sleeping or is positioned in a target position to induce
                                                3A
141
  AjRR1

the user to change positions. For example, the device can be configured to limit the amount of
time that the user spends sleeping in a supine position for users for whom it is not
recommended to sleep in a supine position, such as OSA patients and users who are pregnant.
The feedback can be provided by one or more haptic motors that can be configured to provide
various levels of feedback and the level of feedback can be customized based on the user's
reaction to the feedback.
[009]   In an aspect, a wearable position therapy device for influencing the position of a user
is provided. The device includes a position detector configured to generate positional signal
data that can be used to determine a position of the user, a haptic feedback device configured
to generate tactile feedback to the user of the device, and a microcontroller. The
microcontroller is configured to receive and analyze the signal data from the position
detector, determine whether the user of the device is in a target position, and generate a
control signal to cause the haptic feedback device to provide tactile feedback to the user to
induce the user to change to a different, non-target sleep position if the user of the device is in
a target sleep position. In an aspect the position therapy device can be configured to
influence a sleeping position of a user and can be worn while the user sleeps. The target
position can be a target sleep position, and the microcontroller can be configured to generate
a control signal to cause the haptic feedback device to provide tactile feedback to the user to
induce the user to change to a different, non-target sleep position if the user of the device is in
a target sleep position.
[010]   In another aspect, a method for influencing the position of a user using a wearable
position therapy device is provided. The method includes applying the position therapy
devices to the head, neck, body, torso, hand, wrist or knee of the user, collecting positional
signal data to determine a position and manner of the user while the user is wearing the
device, determining whether the positional signal data indicates that the user is positioned in
a target position, and generating haptic feedback to the user to induce the user to change to a
different, non-target position if the user is in the target position. In an aspect, the method can
be used to influence a sleeping position of a user of the wearable position therapy device, and
the positional signal data can be used to determine whether the user is in a target sleep
position, and to provide haptic feedback to the user if the user is in the target sleep position to
influence the user to change to a different, non-target sleep position.
                                                  3B
141
  AjRR1

                               Brief Description of the Drawings
[011]   Fig. 1 identifies the primary electronic components and circuits of a position therapy
device configure to monitor and reduce sleep in a target position according to an
embodiment;
[012]   Fig. 2 is a flow diagram of a basic approach to reduce sleep in a target position using
a the position therapy device illustrated in Fig. 1 to provide haptic feedback to induce a user
to change sleep positions according to an embodiment;
[013]   Fig. 3 illustrates another method for monitoring and influencing the sleep position
using the position therapy device of Fig 1 to provide haptic feedback to induce a user to
change sleep positions according to an embodiment;
                                                 4
141Q4RR1

[0141   Fig. 4 illustrates a method for processing and analyzing the data acquired by the
position therapy device of Fig. 1 according to an embodiment.
[015]   Fig. 5 provides an illustration of the position therapy device according to an
embodiment;
[016]   Fig. 6 shows the position therapy device worn around the neck according to an
embodiment;
[017]   Fig. 7 shows the position therapy device worn on the back;
[018]   Fig. 8 uses a sample hypnogram to illustrate the clinical information that can be
derived from accelerometers with the position therapy device and can be included in a
position therapy report generated from data collected by the position therapy device
according to an embodiment; and
[019J   Fig. 9 illustrates an alternative embodiment of the position therapy device illustrated
in Fig. 1 that includes a wireless transceiver.
                                       Detailed Description
[020]   Systems and methods for influence position of a user are provided. Embodiments
can be used to control the influence the position of a user's body, and some embodiments
can be used to influence a sleeping position of the user. The device can be configured to be
worn around the head, the neck, or body of the user. The device can be configured to
provide feedback to a user if the user is sleeping or is positioned in a target position to
induce the user to change positions. For example, the device can be configured to limit the
amount of time that the user spends sleeping in a supine position for users for whom it is not
recommended to sleep in a supine position, such as OSA patients and users who are
pregnant.    The feedback can be provided by one or more haptic motors that can be
configured to provide various levels of feedback and the level of feedback can be
customized based on the user's reaction to the feedback.
[021] According to one embodiment, a wearable position therapy device is provided that is
configured to monitor and store physiological signals that can be used to assess steep
quality and sleeping position of a user. The device can be worn around the head, the neck,
or body of the user. The device can be configured to provide haptic feedback to induce the
                                                 5

user change sleeping positions if the position therapy device determines that the user is
sleeping in a target position. In an embodiment, the form factor of the device is comfortable
so as to not disturb the user's ability to sleep while wearing the device. The device is also
easy for a user to self-apply. The device can be configured to provide feedback, including
haptic feedback, to influence the user's sleep positions. Adaptive feedback routines can be
included to minimize the disruption of sleep continuity while reducing the likelihood that
the user does not return to the target sleep position. The application of feedback can be
provisionally set so the device can worn to first obtain baseline sleep data for comparison to
the changes in sleep position after initiation of feedback. The signals recorded during the
night(s) can be analyzed to assess parameters useful in assessing treatment compliance and
efficacy, such as total sleep time and sleep efficiency, snoring frequency and loudness, and
percentage of sleep time by position.
[0221    Embodiments of the position therapy device can also be used in applications where
the user is not sleeping but it is desirable for the user to avoid specific positions.      For
example, a pregnant user experiencing pre-eclampsia might be confined to bed rest by a
physician and instructed to avoid laying in a supine position when both asleep and awake in
order to avoid aggravating the condition.
[023]    According to an embodiment, the target position can also be defined as a position
that the position therapy device will discourage the user from being in that position. In
some embodiments, a set of allowable positions can be defined and if the user moves to a
position that is not included in the set of allowable positions that position can be considered
a target position, and the position therapy device can be configured to provide feedback to
the user to induce the user to change positions to one of the allowed positions.           This
approach can be useful in teaching or training exercises where the position therapy device
can be used to train a user to be in a certain position.
[024J    Fig. I is a block diagram identifying functional components and circuits of a
Position Therapy Device ("PTD") 100 according to an embodiment. The PTD 100 can be
configured to be worn on the head, neck, or body of a user. In some embodiments, the PTD
100 can be worn during sleep to influence the position of the user's body.             In other
embodiments, the PTD 100 can be worn while the user is awake to provide feedback to the
user if the user positions his or her body in a predetermined target position to be avoided. In
                                                 6

an embodiment, the PTD 100 includes a microcontroller 130, a haptic feedback device 140,
power supply 150, battery 155, recharging circuit 160, and position detector 110. Fig. 1
illustrates the various components of the PTD 100 as being in communication with one
another. The components can be in communication with one another via a wired or wireless
connection.
[0251    The position detector 110 is configured to generate signal data that can be analyzed
by the PTD 100 to determine the sleeping position of the user. For example, the position
detector 110 can be used to determine whether the user is in a supine position. According to
an embodiment, the position detector 110 can comprise an accelerometer. According to an
alternative   embodiment, a pressure switch or sensor can be used instead of an
accelerometer. When the PTD 100 is worn on the user's the neck or against the user's back,
the pressure switch or sensor can be used to detect when the user is sleeping or laying in a
supine position.
[026J    According to an embodiment, the PTD 100 can include a microphone 105 that can
be configured to capture audio data while the user is sleeping.        This audio data can be
analyzed by the PTD 100 to detect snoring and/or other audible symptoms that can be
causing sleep disruption. Snoring can be an indicator of obstructed breathing, and the PTD
100 can be used in a therapy regime for OSA in which a user is discouraged from sleeping
in a supine position. In an example, microphone 105 can be used to capture audio signals to
assess snoring magnitude and frequency, which are likely to be position dependent. In a
preferred embodiment an acoustic microphone is used to obtain quantified levels of snoring.
In an alternative embodiment, a vibration microphone can be used instead of an acoustic
microphone. In an embodiment, the PTD 100 can be configured to correlate the audio data
captured by microphone 105 with positional data generated by the position detector 110 to
determine whether to provide haptic and/or audiovisual feedback to the user to induce the
user to shift to a different sleep position. For example, a user having OSA can be induced
to sleep in a non-supine position if severe snoring is detected by the PTD 100.
[0271    In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 1, the PTD 100 includes a power component
160 that includes a rechargeable battery 155 and a power supply 150 for receiving power
from an external source for recharging battery 155 via recharging circuit 260 and/or
powering the PTD 100. The battery 155 allows the PTD 100 to operate without requiring
                                               7

the PTD 100 to be tethered to an external power cord or power supply, which could be
inconvenient and uncomfortable for a user of the device. In the preferred embodiment, the
battery capacity is sufficient to allow the PTD 100 to acquire data from multiple nights
while providing the required haptic feedback to the user.
[028]   In one embodiment, battery 155 can be a rechargeable lithium polymer battery.
According to other embodiments, battery 155 can be another type of battery, either
rechargeable or non-rechargeable, and in some embodiments, battery 155 can be removable
and replaceable. According to one embodiment, battery 155 is a rechargeable battery that
includes a micro-USB connector that allows battery 155 to be recharged using a standard
USB charger that plugs into an electrical outlet or a standard USB host. In an embodiment,
the recharging circuit 160 comprises a standard USB wall charger that plugs into a standard
wall outlet in order to power the PTD 100 and/or recharge battery 155 using mains power.
According to some embodiments, an external power supply can be used to power the
device.
[029]   The PTD 100 can include a memory 170 for data storage. In an embodiment, the
memory 170 can comprise a removable Multimedia Memory card (MMC) or Secure Digital
card (SD) car or other types of removable persistent memory. In another embodiment, the
memory 170 can comprise a fixed flash chip. According to an embodiment, a data transfer
interface 175 is provided. According to an embodiment, the data transfer interface 175 can
comprise a micro-USB or similar type of connector that can be used facilitate downloading
data from the PTD to an external computer system or web portal, for uploading firmware
executable by microcontroller 130 to memory 170, or both. In an embodiment, the data
transfer interface 175 can also include a mechanical interface for providing power to the
recharging component 160 to recharge the battery 155.
[0301 According to an embodiment, most commercially available microcontrollers or
microprocessor 130 would be appropriate for the PTD 100.          However, in a preferred
embodiment, the microcontroller 130 is an inexpensive, small, low-powered chip. The PTD
100 can include firmware executable by the microcontroller 130. The firmware can be
stored in data storage 170 or in a flash memory of microcontroller 130. According to some
embodiments, the firmware can be updated by downloading new firmware from an external
computer system via data transfer interface 175.
                                              8

[0311    According to an embodiment, the frmware can be configured to minimize the
power requirements of the microcontroller 130 while the PTD 100 is being used in
recording mode to capture data from the position detector 110, the microphone 105, and/or
other sensors. The firmware can be configured to analyze data received from the position
detector 110, microphone 105, and/or other sensors and to provide feedback to the user of
the device via audiovisual output module 120 and/or haptic feedback device 140 for
providing tactile feedback to the user of the PTD 100. In an embodiment, the haptic
feedback device can comprise one or more haptic motors for providing tactile feedback to
the user of the PTD 100.      In an embodiment, the PTD 100 can be configured to store
various position therapy (PDT) data to the memory 170. The PDT data can include data
received from the position detector 110 and/or the microphone 105. The PDT data can
include data, such as the sleep position at various times, the changes to the sleep position of
the user, sleep state and arousals, snoring data, and/or other data that can be recorded and/or
generated by the PDT 100.
[0321 In an embodiment, the PTD 100 can be configured to store various position therapy
(PDT) data to the memory 170. The PDT data can include data received from the position
detector 110 and/or the microphone 105. The PDT data can include data, such as the steep
position at various times, the changes to the sleep position of the user, sleep state and
arousals, snoring data, and/or other data that can be recorded and/or generated by the PDT
100.
[033J According to an embodiment, the PTD 100 can be configured to write an action
history to the memory 170 to assist customer service support. For example, information
regarding when the battery 155 of the PTD 100 has been charged, when the device has been
powered on and off, when the device has started and stopped recording sleep assessment
data about the user, and other information can be included in the action history that is
written to memory 170.
[034] In an embodiment, the data transfer interface comprises a Universal Serial Bus
(USB) data transfer chip to facilitate transferring of data captured by the PTD 100 to an
external computer system or web portal. In another embodiment, USB transfer capabilities
can be incorporated into microcontroller 130.
                                                9

[035]   The memory 170 can be used to store data collected by the PTD 100 while the
device is being worn by a user. Alternatively, this information can be stored to the flash of
the microcontroller 130. To avoid data loss when saving to flash memory, the firmware can
identify when the battery power is low and can conserve power until the data is
downloaded.
[0361 In an embodiment, to improve the ease and speed of transfer of files from the data
storage device, a USB flash drive chip can be included in the PTD 100.              In some
embodiments, the capability to transfer data via USB or native USB is provided by the
microcontroller 130. According to an embodiment, the PTD 100 can be connected to an
external computer system via a USB connection, and the PTD 100 can be recognized as a
USB Human Interface device, which can allow direct control of the device by the Microsoft
Windows operating system and/or by Web-based software.
[0371 In an embodiment, the RTD 100 includes one or more haptic motors 140 that can be
configured to elicit vibrations in response to control signals from the to provide haptic
feedback to the user when the PTD 100 recognizes that the user is in the target position.
The haptic feedback can be used to alert the user that the user needs to change positions
from the target position.     In one embodiment, an electronic feedback module that is
configured to provide electrical stimulation to the user in response to control signals from
the microcontroller can be used instead of haptic feedback in order to influence the sleep
position of the user. In one embodiment, an audio emitter can used as an alternative to or in
addition to haptic feedback to influence sleep position.
[0381 According to an embodiment, in order to improve the ease of use of PTD 100,
audiovisual output module 120 can be used as a means to communicate with the user. In
one embodiment, voice messages can be provided via an audio circuit or speaker to provide
feedback to user. For example, a voice message might be provided to indicate that the PTD
100 has slipped out of position or has fallen off. In another example, a voice message might
be provided to indicate that the battery 155 is low or that the RTD 100 is running out of
memory for storing data. One skilled in the art will recognize that other types of audio
messages can be provided to user of the device to facilitate use of the device. In an
alternative embodiment, an audio emitter can be used to project audio patterns that the user
can be trained to recognize. For example, the audio emitter could be configured to emit a
                                               10

specific signal if the device is turned on or if the device has fallen off.
[039J According to another embodiment, a light emitting diode (LED) can be used to
identify when the PTD 100 is powered on, when the battery 155 is being charged, or
alternatively when the battery 155 needs to be recharged, or when data is available for
transfer from the PTD 100 or when data is being transferred from the PTD 100. In another
embodiment, a display can be provided for displaying text messages, icons, or other visual
indicators to the user regarding the operation of usages of the device. For example, the PTD
100 can include a liquid crystal (LCD) display, an LED display, or an organic light emitting
diode (OLED) display for displaying information to the user of the device. One skilled in
the art will recognize that microcontroller and firmware provides the means to apply any
number of notifications or feedback using various combinations audio and visual feedback.
[0401 According to an embodiment, the PTD 100 can comprise low profile chips to
minimize the profile of the PTD 100.         For example, low profile chips can be used to
implement microcontroller 130, position detector 110 (e.g., an accelerometer).         In one
embodiment, microcontroller 130, flash memory for data storage 170, and a USB chip for
data transfer interface 175 can be mounted on a printed circuit board (PCB), and a triple
axis accelerometer for position detector 110 can be centered on the top of the PCB.
Connectors for battery 155, haptic motor 140, a mini-USB connector for data transfer
interface 175, light emitting diodes for audiovisual output module 120, and an on-off switch
can be mounted on the bottom of the PCB. Passive components can be mounted in the
available space around these components.
[041] According to an embodiment, the on-off switch can be located where the user can
readily switch on the PTD 100, but the switch can be sufficiently recessed so that the device
cannot easily be inadvertently turned off during use (e.g., by catching the switch on bedding
or a pillow or the user's head or body).          Because the haptic motor utilizes can use a
substantial amount of current, the number of nights of use for a given size battery prior to
recharging can depend on how often the haptic motor is used to provide feedback to the
user.   In a preferred embodiment, haptic motor 140 is physically located within the
enclosure of the PTD 100 such that the haptic motor 140 can transmit a maximum level of
vibration with a minimal amount of power consumption.
                                                 11

[042] Fig. 2 is a flow diagram of a method for using the PTD 100 to monitor and control
the sleep position of a user according to an embodiment. As described above, the PTD 100
can be self-applied by a user and can be positioned on the head, neck, or body and is worn
by the user during sleep.
[0431 Once the PTD 100 has been applied by the user, the PTD 100 can use a set of
algorithms included in the firmware executed by microcontroller 130 to assess data
collected by the position detector 110 to assess the sleeping position of the user (step 210).
According to an embodiment, the position detector 110 comprises one or more
accelerometers that can be used to assess the sleep position of the user. The PTD 100
monitors data received from the position detector 110 in order to make real-time
assessments of the sleep position of the user. As described above, the PTD 100 can also
include a microphone 105 that can be used to capture audio signals indicative of whether the
user is snoring. In an embodiment, the audio data captured by microphone 105 can be
analyzed by the firmware to determine whether the user is snoring, and the microcontroller
130 can write the data to data storage 170. In one embodiment, the audio data captured by
the microcontroller 130 can be written to the data storage 170 and the stored audio data can
be transferred from the PTD 100 to an external computer system for further analysis and
processing. In some embodiments, the microcontroller 130 can be configured to execute
one or more analysis algorithms implemented in the firmware on the data received from the
microphone 105 to identify whether the user of the device is snoring. The microcontroller
130 can also be configured to write snoring event data to the data storage 170, and the
stored snoring event data can later be transferred to an external computer system or web
portal for further analysis and processing.
[044] A determination is made whether a target sleep position is detected based on the
assessment of the data from the position detector 110 (step 220). The target sleep position
is a sleep position to be avoided. For example, the target sleep position for a patient with
OSA may be a supine position, because sleeping on the back can cause the airway to be
susceptible to collapse and can lead to inspiratory flow limitation. If the target position is
the supine position and the PTD 100 determines that the user is sleeping in the target
position, the PTD 100 can provide haptic feedback to the user (step 230) to influence the
user's sleep position. For example, if the user is sleeping in a supine position and the target
position is the supine position, haptic feedback can be provided to encourage the user to
                                              12

change position. According to an embodiment, haptic feedback can be elicited until the
PTD 100 detects that the user h as changed position.
[045J    According to an embodiment, the PTD 100 can be worn for multiple nights between
battery charges and over the course of the multiple nights, the PTD 100 can monitor
compliance, the impact of the feedback on sleep continuity, behavioral arousals and steep
efficacy, and snoring.
[046J    According to an embodiment, the method illustrated in Fig. 2 can be adapted for use
with users who are using the PTD 100 while awake. For example, the PTD 100 can be used
to assess the position of the user (step 210) who is awake and to determine whether the user
is in a target position (step 220) and provide haptic feedback to the user (step 230). For
example, the PTD 100 could be used by a pregnant user to warn the user to avoid lying
down in a supine position. In another example, the PTD 100 could be used to warn a
patient with an arm or shoulder injury from lying on the injured side of the body.
[047J Alternatively, the PTD 100 can be used to assist a person locate or avoid the
appropriate position. For example, the precise position of the head, neck body or torso may
be important for use in the rehabilitation of in injury. Haptic feedback can be used for
positive reinforcement when a particular position is achieved, or for negative reinforcement,
as described previously to avoid a particular position.
[0481 Fig. 9 illustrates an alternative embodiment of the position therapy device illustrated
in Fig. I that includes a wireless transceiver. The wireless embodiment of the PTD 100
illustrated in Fig. 9 can be used with any of various methods described herein in which the
non-wireless version of the PTD 100 can be used. The embodiment of PTD 100 illustrated
in Fig. 9 can remotely monitor the position of the user's body and provide haptic feedback
to the user. The components of the PTD 100 illustrated in Fig. 9 are similar to those of Fig.
1, but the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 9 includes a wireless transceiver 980 that can be
configured to allow the PTD 100 to communicate with one more remote position sensors
990. According to an embodiment, the wireless transceiver can be a Bluetooth transceiver,
a Zigbee transceiver, or other type of wireless transceiver that can provide wireless
communications between the PTD 100 and the remote position sensor 990. Fig. 9 illustrates
the various components of the PTD 100 as being in communication with one another. The
components can be in communication with one another via a wired or wireless connection.
                                               13

[049] The remote position sensor 990 includes a microcontroller 995, a position sensor
993, and a wireless transceiver 997. In an embodiment, the microcontroller 995 can be
similar to microcontroller 130 of PTD 100 or can be of a different configuration. Position
detector 993 can also be of a similar configuration as position detector 110 of PTD 100 or
can be of a different configuration. In an embodiment, the PTD 100 can also include the
wireless position detector 110 when the remote position sensor 990 is used, while in other
embodiments, the PTD 100 can be configured to not include a wireless position sensor 110
when one or more wireless position sensors 990 are used.
[0501   Information collected by the remote position sensor 990 can be transmitted to the
PTD 100.     The microcontroller 130 can use this information to determine whether to
generate a control signal to provide haptic feedback to the user with haptic feedback module
140.
[051]   In an embodiment, the remote sensor 990 can include a power supply 150, battery
155, and recharging circuit 160 similar to that of PTD 100. In other embodiments, the
remote sensor 990 can include a non-rechargeable, replaceable battery to provide power to
the remote sensor.
[0521   In one embodiment, more than one remote position sensors 990 can be used to
provide information relating a position or positions of the head, torso, or extremities of a
user. One skilled in the art will recognize the potential benefit of an athlete having multiple
remote position sensors attached to key aspects of his body to ensure complex positions are
maintained prior to execution of an action (e.g., preparing to hit a baseball, drive or put a
golf ball, shoot a free throw, etc.). This approach allows for position information obtained
during performance modeling, video taping, etc. to be translated to positions or angles of the
body or extremities and in which haptic feedback can be used to assist the user to achieve
that exact position (or similar position) during practice without access to the more
sophisticated measurement approaches. In one embodiment the one or more remote sensors
can be attached or woven into clothing, a glove(s), wristbands, socks, etc. to allow more
accurate placement of the sensor relative to a part of the user's body. In one embodiment,
multiple remote sensors 990 can be attached or incorporated into a garment or accessory,
allowing more than one sensor to share use the same battery and/or transceiver.         In one
embodiment, an energy-harvesting module can be used to provide power to the battery of
                                               14

the remote sensor 990 and/or the PTD 100. The energy-harvesting module can generate
power based on movements of the user during the use of the PTD 100.
[053J In an alternative embodiment, the remote sensor 990 can be connected to the PTD
100 using a wired interface, and the PTD 100 and the remote sensor 990 can include
appropriate physical interfaces for the wired connection. For example, in an embodiment,
the remote sensor 990 and the PTD 100 can include data ports into which a data cable can
be plugged to provide a wired communication connection between the remote sensor 990
and the PTD 100.
[054J    Fig. 3 illustrates another method for monitoring and influencing the sleep position of
PTD 100 using conditional positional feedback according to an embodiment. The method
illustrated in Fig. 3 is similar to that of Fig. 2, but the method illustrated in Fig. 3 is adapted
to assist sleepers that have difficulty falling asleep in a position other than the target
position. For example, the method illustrated in Fig. 3 can be used to assist predominantly
supine sleepers that may have difficulty falling asleep on their sides by allowing the user to
initially fall asleep in a supine position.         The method provides the patient with an
opportunity to fall asleep before using conditional feedback to influence the sleep position
of the patient. This approach avoids compromising the sleep efficiency of the user by
forcing the user to attempt to fall asleep in a non-target position when the user is typically
unable to fall asleep in a non-target position. For example, if a user who is typically a
supine sleeper will not be forced to attempt to fall asleep on her side.
[055J As described above, the PTD 100 can be self-applied by a user and can be
positioned on the head, neck, or body and is worn by the user during sleep. Once the PTD
100 has been applied by the user, the PTD 100 can use a set of algorithms included in the
firmware executed by microcontroller 130 to assess data collected by the position detector
110 to assess the sleeping position of the user (step 305). A determination can then be made
whether the user has had a sufficient amount of time in bed to make an assessment (step
310). In one embodiment positional feedback will be initiated only after a predetermined or
configurable elapsed time period with the PTD 100 on (e.g., 15-minutes). For example, in
some embodiments, the user and/or a doctor or therapist treating the patient can configure
the amount of time that PTD 100 will wait before making an initial assessment, while in
other embodiments, the PTD 100 can be configured to wait for a predetermined time period
                                                  15

before making an initial assessment. If the user has not had a sufficient amount of time in
bed prior to making an assessment, the method returns to step 305 where a new assessment
can be made.
[0561 Otherwise, if the predetermined or configurable time period has elapsed a
determination can be made whether movement is detected (step 320). For example, the user
is moving his or her head or other parts of the body, then the user may still be awake. If
movement is detected, the user is likely not to be asleep and positional feedback would not
be effective. Therefore, the method returns to step 305 where a new assessment can be
made.
[057]   According to an embodiment, a user can reset the time period on the PTD 100 if the
user has trouble falling asleep. For example, a user might be awakened during the night by
the need to use the bathroom, and upon returning from the nocturnal use of the bathroom,
the user can turn the PTD 100 off and then back on in order to reset the feedback delay.
According to an embodiment, the microcontroller 130 can include a real-time clock that can
be used to timestamp the on/off mark in the data captured by the PTD 100 so that the data
can be appended into a single of information when a compliance and efficacy report is
generated from the data.
[0581 Otherwise, if no movement is detected, then the user is more likely to be asleep, and
a determination can be made whether snoring is detected (step 330). As described above,
the PTD 100 can include a microphone 105 that can be used to capture an audio signal that
can be analyzed to determine whether the user is snoring. White lack of snoring is not
indicative of whether the user is asleep, snoring is indicative that the user is asleep and can
also be indicative of an airway susceptible to collapse and can lead to inspiratory flow
limitation. If no snoring is detected, the user may not be sleeping, and thus positional
feedback could be counterproductive. If the user is asleep and is not snoring, the user is
likely to be in a non-target position (in this example, a non-supine position), and applying
positional feedback might simply wake the user. Otherwise, if the user is not asleep,
applying positional feedback could prevent the user from falling asleep.         Therefore, the
method returns to step 305 where a new assessment can be made.
[0591 According to an embodiment, step 330 can be optional if the user has satisfied the
conditions of steps 310 and 320 and has been in bed for a sufficient amount of time and no
                                               16

movement has been detected. In some embodiments, the PTD 100 can be configured to
track how much time has passed since the movement was detected in step 320, and if a
predetermined period of time has passed since the last movement was detected, the method
can proceed to step 340 even if no snoring is detected. For example, in one embodiment, if
the user has been in bed for at least 15 minutes, the condition of step 310 is satisfied. No
movement is detected at step 320 so the step is also satisfied, but if no snoring is detected,
the method would return to step 305 even thought the user might be asleep. Therefore, the
PTD 100 can begin keeping track of how long it has been since movement was last detected
(or when step 320 was first performed if no movement has been detected since the method
began), and if a predetermined time period (e.g., five minutes) passes an no movement is
detected and no snoring is present, the method can proceed to step 340, because it is likely
that the user is asleep but is not snoring.
[0601 Furthermore, in an alternative embodiment, if snoring is detected even if some
movement is present, the snoring is indicative that the user is asleep, and the method can
proceed to step 340. In yet another embodiment, the order of steps 320 and 330 can be
reversed, so that the PTD 100 is configured to check for snoring before checking for user
movements.
[061]   A determination can be made whether the user is in a supine position for
embodiments where the target position is a supine position (step 340). According to an
embodiment, a determination could be made whether the user is in other non-supine target
positions depending upon the individual needs of the user and the condition for which the
user is being treated. If the user is in the target position, haptic feedback can be provided to
the user (step 350).     In a preferred embodiment, once the user is asleep, feedback is
provided immediately after a position change so as to not alter or disrupt the continuity of
sleep more than what would normally occur when a sleeper changes position.                 In an
embodiment, the position detector I10 can be used to detect that the user has changed
position. For example, in one embodiment, the position detector 110 comprises one or more
accelerometers that can be used to determine that the user's body position.
[062J In one embodiment, the feedback stimulation routine begins at a low intensity level
two-second haptic feedback interval when the supine position is detected. After applying
the feedback to the user, an assessment can then be performed on data collected by the
                                                 17

position detector 110 to assess the sleeping position of the user (step 360), and a
determination can be made whether the user is in a supine position (step 370). According to
an embodiment, if gross movement of the user's body position is not identified, an
additional feedback routine sequence can be applied. For example, in an embodiment, if the
PTD 100 does not detect that the patient has begun to change position within four seconds
of the termination of the previous feedback routine, another 2 second long feedback routing
can be presented at a higher intensity level than the previous feedback routine. According
to an embodiment, the sequence of steps 350, 360, and 370 can be repeated until the user
finally changes positions and settles into a non-supine position 370.
[0631 According to an embodiment, the PTD 100 can also be configured to store the data
received from the position detector 110 and the microphone 105 (step 380). According to
an embodiment, the data received by the microphone 105 can be analyzed by the PTD 100
to determine whether the user is snoring, and data indicating whether the user was snoring
and a particular data and time can be stored in the data storage 170. According to an
embodiment, other data can also be collected by the PTD 100 and stored in the data storage
170. For example, the PDT 100 can configured to determine a current steep state of the
user, a current sleep position of the user, feedback that was provided to the user, and/or
other information that can be used to determine the quality of the user's sleep and the
efficacy of the PTD treatment.
[064J   According to an embodiment, the final intensity of the haptic feedback provided to
the user that resulted in the user changing position can be saved to data storage 170 and can
be used as a starting level for the haptic feedback provided the next time that feedback is
required. The patterns of haptic feedback described above are merely one example of the
pattern of feedback that can be used to influence the sleeping of the user.           In other
embodiments, different patterns of haptic feedback including different haptic feedback
intervals and lengths of pauses between intervals of increasing intensity of feedback can be
used. According to an embodiment, a different number of haptic motors 140 can also be
used to create a subjective perception of increased levels of feedback.
[065J According to an embodiment, the firmware of PTD 100 can be configured to store
data representing the average feedback intensity levels and range of feedback intensity
levels required to initiate position changes. This data can be stored in data storage 170, and
                                               18

the PTD 100 can utilize this information the next time the PTD 100 is used to establish the
initial feedback pattern. Thus, the patterns and intensity of the feedback can be tailored to
the individual user in order to encourage positional behavior without over-stimulation. For
example, by using the techniques described above, the PTD 100 will not stimulate a light
sleeper fully awake, and the PTD 100 won't under stimulate a heavy sleeper, such that the
feedback produced by the PTD 100 is ignored.
[0661 The feedback intensity is adaptive so that the therapy can also be efficacious in
patients who are taking analgesic medications, sleeping pills, or consuming alcohol prior to
bed. The conditional algorithms can accommodate changes in the user's sensitivity to the
feedback based on sleep stage or adaptation to continued use of the PTD 100. PTD 100 can
be configured to use various numbers of feedback intensity levels, as well as various lengths
of the feedback and durations between feedback events without negatively impacting the
functionality of the PTD 100.
[067J According to an embodiment, the position detector 110 comprise accelerometers that
are sensitive enough provide data that can be used to monitor the breathing of the user. The
breathing pattern of the user can be collected as part of the position therapy data collected
by the PTD 100 and can be used to identify interruptions and arousals in the sleep pattern of
the user.    For example, in an OSA patient, the patient's breathing can be interrupted
resulting in the patient gasping for air. The data collected by the accelerometers can be
analyzed to identify such events. The breathing data collected by the PTD 100 can also be
used in determining whether the user is asleep, and can in some embodiments, be used in
addition to or instead of the detection of user movement in step 330. For example, the
user's breathing pattern can change when the user falls asleep and this change in breathing
pattern can be identified in real time by monitoring and analyzing the signal data from the
accelerometer or accelerometers.
[0681 Fig. 4 illustrates a method for processing the data acquired by the PTD 100. As
described above with respect to Figs. 2 and 3, the PTD 100 captures and stores data
regarding the sleep state of the user (step 405). In one embodiment, this data can be stored
in the data storage 170 of the PTD 100.        The data acquired by the PTD 100 can be
transferred to an external computer system or web portal (step 410) for additional
processing to assess various parameters useful in assessing compliance and efficacy (step
                                              19

420). According to one embodiment, the data can be transferred from the PTD 100 using
the data transfer interface 175.     As described above the data transfer interface 175 can
comprise a USB interface for transferring the data acquired by the PTD 100 to an external
computer system or a web portal.
[0691 The frequency of use of the PTD 100, based on hours per night and nights per week
can provide useful measures for assessing the user's compliance with PTD therapy. Other
data captured by the PTD 100, such as the response time to positional feedback and length
of time, the number of times per night the patient attempts to sleep supine, the total and
percentage of time the patients user supine, and whether the user turn the device off in the
night to eliminate feedback can also provide useful measures of treatment efficacy.
According to an embodiment, the positional signal data from position detector 110 of the
can represent actigraphic data. Actigraphy is a non-invasive method for monitoring the rest
and activity cycles of a patient. The PTD 100 can measure the motor activity of the user
and this data can be captured and stored by the PTD 100 as part of the position therapy data.
The motor activity data can be analyzed to measure the behavioral sleep patterns of the user
and sleep efficiency. This data can be incorporated into a position therapy report generated
for the user.    In some embodiments, night to night differences in the amplitude and
frequency of snoring are additional measures which can also incorporated into a position
therapy report to assist the user or their clinician assess the benefits of the PTD 100.
[070J The external computer system or web portal can generate a report based on the
position therapy data collected and/or generated by the PTD 100. The position therapy
report position therapy report can assist the user or a clinician to assess the benefits of the
positional therapy regime.       Once the report has been generated, the report can be
downloaded or printed (step 440) or viewed online. Fig. 8 is an example of a report that can
be generated using the data captured by the PTD 100. The example report includes two
graphs of data captured by the user device over time. The upper graph portion of the report
includes positional data indicating the body position of the user over time. The lower graph
illustrates the whether the user was awake or asleep over time and whether the user
experienced an arousal event. This report can be downloaded for review by the patient or a
clinician to assess the efficacy of the PTD therapy.
                                                 20

[0711 According to an embodiment, the PTD 100 can be interfaced with an external
computer system or web portal to provide additional capabilities for monitoring treatment
efficacy. For example, the PTD 100 can be configured to record sleep position of the user
without applying feedback for a predetermined number period of time, such as one or more
nights, to create baseline information about the user's preference for sleeping positions and
other sleeping habits. Once the baseline data has been recorded, positional feedback can be
initiated. The baseline data can later be compared to data collected after positional feedback
has been initiated to determine whether the positional therapy is having an affect on the
user's sleep habits.
[0721 In some embodiments, the PTD 100 can be configured via a user interface provided
by the external computer system or web portal. For example, in some embodiments, the
user interface is configured to allow the user to select a sleep position that the user wishes to
avoid. In an example, the user might configure the PTD 100 to avoid the supine position for
OSA or for pregnancy, or non-supine sleep for patients with shoulder or arm injuries.
According to an embodiment, the user interface can also be configured to allow the user or a
clinician to configure other parameters affecting haptic feedback or the algorithms used to
make the various determinations described used in the method described above, such as the
date and time.
[0731 Fig. 5 illustrates an example embodiment of the PTD 100.               In the embodiment
illustrated in Fig. 5, the PTD 100 comprises a small injection-molded silicon enclosure 505.
The silicon enclosure 505 encapsulates the electronic components of the PTD 100 and the
enclosure is thick enough to protect the electronic components.                A thinner, more
comfortable durometer silicone can be used for the enclosure extensions 510.               In an
embodiment, a thin strip of copper can be molded inside of the extensions to allow the PTD
100 to be adjusted to conform to the neck or back of the user and to decrease the likelihood
that the PTD 100 might accidentally be repositioned during sleep and result in false positive
feedback. The silicone enclosure 505 and enclosure extensions 510 can be easily cleaned
and maintained with alcohol.
[074J    Fig. 6 illustrates the PTD 100 design illustrated in Fig. 5 that has been placed around
the neck of a user according to an embodiment. In the embodiment illustrated in Fig. 6, a
thin, round silicone enclosure strap 610 holds the enclosure 605 of the PTD 100 in place
                                               21

round the user's neck. The length of the left and right straps can be adjusted over the
enclosure 605. According to an embodiment, a low profile magnetic clasp (not shown),
similar to that used in some wrist bracelets, can be used on the front of the strap of the PTD
100 to allow the PTD 100 to be easily applied or taken off by the user. According to an
embodiment, to cover safety concerns regarding wearing a collar during sleep, the strength
of the magnet included in the magnetic clasp can be selected to ensure that the magnetic
clasp will automatically release in the event that the PTD 100 were to get caught in the
clothing of the user or the bedding.
[075]   Fig. 7 illustrates another embodiment of the PTD illustrated in Figs. 5 and 6 where
the enclosure 705 can be worn over the spine and can be held in place with the use of a
longer, thicker enclosure strap 705 than is used in the embodiments illustrated in Figs. 5 and
6. The enclosure strap wraps around the chest and over the shoulders of the user to hold the
PTD 100 in place.
[076]   Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative modules and
method steps described in connection with the above described figures and the
embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware, software,
firmware or combinations of the foregoing. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of
hardware and software, various illustrative modules and method steps have been described
above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented
as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints
imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality
in varying ways for each particular application, but such implementation decisions should
not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition, the
grouping of functions within a module or step is for ease of description. Specific functions
can be moved from one module or step to another without departing from the invention.
[077]   Moreover, the various illustrative modules and method steps described in connection
with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with hardware
such as a general purpose processor, a digital signal processor ("DSP"), an application
specific integrated circuit ("ASIC"), field programmable gate array ("FPGA") or other
programmable logic device, discrete gate or transistor logic, discrete hardware components,
or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general
                                              22

purpose processor is hardware and can be a microprocessor, but in the alternative, the
processor can be any hardware processor or controller, microcontroller. A processor can
also be implemented as a combination of computing devices, for example, a combination of
a DSP and a microprocessor, a plurality of microprocessors, one or more microprocessors in
conjunction with a DSP core, or any other such configuration.
[078J Additionally, the steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the
embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware, in a software module
executed by a processor, or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in
computer or controller accessible on computer-readable storage media including RAM
memory, flash memory, ROM memory, EPROM memory, EEPROM memory, registers,
hard disk, a removable disk, a CD-ROM, or any other form of storage medium including a
network storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor
such the processor can read information from, and write information to, the storage
medium. In the alternative, the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The
processor and the storage medium can also reside in an ASIC.
[079J The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any
person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these
embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art, and the generic principles
described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or
scope of the invention. Thus, it is to be understood that the description and drawings
presented herein represent exemplary embodiments of the invention and are therefore
representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention.
It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other
embodiments and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly limited by nothing
other than the appended claims.
                                              23

                                            CLAIMS
         1.      A method for assessing efficacy of position therapy using a position therapy
device, the method comprising:
         providing position therapy to a user while the user is wearing a wearable position
therapy device, wherein the position therapy comprises, by the wearable position therapy
device,
                 collecting positional data via a position detector of the wearable position
         therapy device while the user is wearing the wearable position therapy device,
                 based on the positional data, determining positions of the user over a time
         period, and,
                 when it is determined that the user is in a supine position, by a feedback
         generator of the wearable position therapy device, providing feedback to influence the
         user to change to a non-supine position, and
         providing an assessment of the efficacy of the position therapy, based on a measure of
time spent in the supine and non-supine positions and at least one additional measure.
         2.      The method of Claim 1 further comprising capturing audio data and wherein
the at least one additional measure comprises a snoring frequency.
         3.      The method of Claim 2, wherein the efficacy is based on a relationship
between one of snoring frequency and snoring magnitude during the time spent in the supine
and non-supine positions.
         4.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the at least one additional measure comprises
a total amount of time that the wearable position therapy device is used.
         5.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the at least one additional measure comprises
interruptions in sleep that occur during use of the wearable position therapy device.
         6.      The method of Claim 5, further comprising determining the interruptions in
sleep based on changes in position.
         7.      The method of Claim 5, further comprising the wearable position therapy
device collecting the breathing pattern of the user and wherein the interruptions in sleep are
determined based on the collected breathing pattern of the user.
         8.      The method of Claim 7, wherein the breathing pattern comprises snoring.
         9.      The method of Claim 1, wherein the at least one additional measure comprises
a measure of movements that occur during use of the wearable position therapy device.
                                                24
141Q4RR1

        10.     The method of Claim 1, wherein the at least one additional measure comprises
a number of changes in sleep position that occur during use of the wearable position therapy
device.
        11.     The method of Claim 1, wherein the at least one additional measure comprises
an amount of feedback that was provided to the user by the wearable position therapy device.
        12.     The method of Claim 1, wherein the at least one additional measure comprises
a length of feedback delivered during use of the wearable position therapy device.
        13.     The method of Claim 1, wherein the at least one additional measure comprises
the user's response time to the feedback.
        14.     The method of Claim 1, further comprising, by the wearable position therapy
device, transmitting information to an external system which provides the assessment of the
efficacy of the position therapy based on the time spent in the supine and non-supine
positions and the at least one additional measure, wherein the time spent in the supine and
non-supine positions is derived from the transmitted information.
        15.     The method of Claim 14, wherein providing the assessment of the efficacy of
the position therapy comprises, by the wearable position therapy device, collecting positional
data, without applying feedback, to generate baseline data, wherein the assessment of the
efficacy of the position therapy is based on a comparison to the baseline data.
        16.     The method of Claim 15, wherein the comparison to the baseline data
comprises determining a difference between an amount of time spent in the supine position,
with application of the feedback, and an amount of time spent in the supine position, without
application of the feedback.
        17.     The method of Claim 15, wherein the comparison to the baseline data
comprises determining a difference between a number of attempts to sleep in the supine
position, with application of the feedback, and a number of attempts to sleep in the supine
position, without application of the feedback.
        18.     The method of Claim 1, wherein providing feedback comprises adaptively
increasing the feedback until the user changes to the non-supine position.
        19.     The method of Claim 18, wherein increasing the feedback comprises one or
more of increasing an intensity of the feedback, increasing a length of the feedback, and
decreasing a duration between feedback events.
        20.     The method of Claim 1, further comprising, by the wearable position therapy
device, saving an action history to memory, wherein the action history comprises one or more
of when a battery of the wearable position therapy device has been charged, when the
                                               25
141Q4RR1

wearable position therapy device has been powered on or off, and when the wearable position
therapy device has started and stopped recording positional data.
        21.     The method of Claim 1, further comprising delaying the feedback for at least a
predetermined or configurable time period.
        22.     The method of Claim 21, further comprising delaying the feedback for longer
than the time period when movement is detected after the time period has elapsed.
        23.     The method of Claim 21, further comprising delaying the feedback for longer
than the time period when snoring is not detected after the time period has elapsed.
        24.     The method of Claim 1, wherein the feedback is provided immediately after a
position change to the supine position.
        25.     The method of Claim 1, wherein the feedback comprises audio feedback.
        26.     The method of Claim 25, wherein the audio feedback comprises a voice
message or audio pattern.
        27.     The method of Claim 1, wherein the position detector is a remote sensor that
communicates wirelessly with a transceiver of the wearable position therapy device, and
wherein a processor of the wearable position therapy device performs the determination of
the positions of the user over a time period, and, when it is determined that the user is in the
supine position, generates a control signal for the feedback generator.
        28.     The method of Claim 27, wherein the transceiver is a BluetoothTM transceiver.
        29.     The method of Claim 1, wherein the wearable position therapy device
comprises a housing that contains a transceiver, a processor that generates a control signal for
the feedback generator, and a memory that stores position and feedback information, and
wherein the position detector comprises a remote sensor outside the housing that wirelessly
transmits the positional data to the transceiver within the housing.
        30.     A method for providing position therapy using a position therapy device, the
method comprising:
        providing position therapy to a user while the user is wearing a wearable position
therapy device, wherein the position therapy comprises, by the wearable position therapy
device,
                collecting positional data via a position detector of the wearable position
        therapy device while the user is wearing the wearable position therapy device,
                based on the positional data, determining positions of the user over a time
        period, and,
                                                26
141Q4RR1

                when it is determined that the user is in a supine position, adaptively
        delivering feedback by increasing a number of feedback generators used until the user
        changes to a non-supine position,
                wherein the feedback generators comprise a plurality of haptic motors.
        31.     The method of Claim 30, wherein increasing the number of feedback
generators used comprises increasing the number of feedback generators used after each of
one or more time intervals.
        32.     A system comprising:
        a wearable position therapy device comprising a position detector and a feedback
generator, wherein the wearable position therapy device provides position therapy to a user,
while the user is wearing the wearable position therapy device, by
                collecting positional data via the position detector while the user is wearing
        the wearable position therapy device,
                based on the positional data, determining positions of the user over a time
        period, and,
                when it is determined that the user is in a supine position, by the feedback
        generator, providing feedback to influence the user to change to a non-supine
        position; and
        one or more software modules that, when executed by a processor, provide an
assessment of the efficacy of the position therapy, based on a measure of time spent in the
supine and non-supine positions and at least one additional measure.
        33.     The system of Claim 32, further comprising an external computing system
comprising at least one processor that:
        receives information transmitted from the wearable position therapy device;
        derives the measure of time spent in the supine and non-supine positions and the at
least one additional measure from the transmitted information; and
        executes the one or more software modules to provide the assessment of the efficacy
of the position therapy.
                             Advanced Brain Monitoring, Inc.
                             Patent Attorneys for the Applicant
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON
                                               27
141Q4RR1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
