                                          Abstract
       A prefabricated house, including: a foundation, at least one wall panel and at least
  one floor panel, wherein the foundation includes an embedded part to which the at least
  one wall panel(s) is mounted; and fixed parts connected with the at least one floor panel
5 and between wall panels; wherein the at least one floor panel, the foundation and the at
  least one wall panel form a closed space, and the at least one wall panel is preset with
  a door and/or a window.
0

              1/5
            3
 5 Figure 1
10

                       Assembled House and Its Disassembly Method
   Technical field
   The present invention relates to a method for assembling and disassembling
   prefabricated houses. Specifically, this is a prefabricated panel assembling house and
 5 its disassembling technology, belonging to the technical field of construction housing.
   Background
   After the development of integrated housing           in recent years, standardization,
   modularization, convenience have greatly improved, but it is still divided into structural
   systems, floor systems, wall systems, onsite construction for the installation of each
 o system. Assembly process is complex, long duration, higher cost. The existing
   integrated housing can only be used once rather than repeated multiple use, resulting in
   waste of resources and increased costs.
   Contents
   The object of the invention is to ameliorate one or more of the shortcomings of the
 5 existing integrated house assembly process, and/or long construction period and/or high
   cost, and/or cannot be repeated use. This convention is to provide a large-board
   assembly house with simple assembly process, shorten the construction period with
   reduced cost.
   The large-board assembled house of the present invention is achieved by the following
20 technical scheme:
   In an aspect, the present invention provides a prefabricated house, including: a
   foundation, at least one wall panel and at least one floor panel, wherein the foundation
   includes an embedded part to which the at least one wall panel(s) is mounted; and fixed
   parts connected with the at least one floor panel and between wall panels; wherein the
25 at least one floor panel, the foundation and the at least one wall panel form a closed
   space, and the at least one wall panel is preset with a door and/or a window.
                                                1

   The upper side of the board may be fixedly connected with floor panel, base plate, and
   floor panel. The wall panel is provided with doors and windows according to the needs.
   In order to facilitate a fixed connection between wall panels and floor panel, an
   improvement of this invention is that the wall panel and the floor panel comprise a
 5 thermal insulation consisting of two layers of inorganic panels and insulated panel. An
   integrated wall board, two-layer inorganic panel is filled with insulation layer, and the
   surroundings of the heat-insulated and decorative wall panel are provided with square
   steel pipe frame. The described veneer material includes but not limited to fiber cement
   board, Magnesium Oxide Board, calcium silicate board, fire resistant board, high
 o performance flame retardant composite board and ALC panel. The described insulation
   material includes but not limited to foam polyurethane, XPS, EPS, rock wool, glass
   wool, foam cement, foam ceramic, expanded vermiculite, thermal insulation glazed
   hollow bead mortar etc.
   The square steel pipe frame is provided with bolt holes.
 5 In order to save space, another improvement of this invention is that the large board
   type house can be provided with a plurality of layers. Wall panel is fixedly mounted on
   the floor panel of the next floor from first floor. The wall panel is fixedly connected with
   floor panel. Wall board and floor panel can form closed space between the wall boards.
   The above wall panels have door and window preset according to the requirements.
-0 All of the embedded parts comprise connecting plate with bolt holes. The connecting
   plate is arranged in parallel with two pallets, the wall panels are arranged on the inside
   of the two pallets, and each of the pallets is provided with bolt holes.
   In order to enhance the strength of the embedded parts, the outer sides of the two
   pallets are provided with reinforcing ribs, respectively.
25 In order to increase the appearance of the assembled house, the third improvement of
   this invention is to have roof provided above the floor panel.
   The method for disassembling the prefabricated house of the present invention is
   achieved by the following technical scheme:
                                                  2

   In a second aspect, there is provided a method of installing the prefabricated house
   according to the first aspect, characterized in the following steps;
   a.       providing the foundation, e.g adopting conventional methods, and fixing the
   embedded parts on the foundation through bolts;
 5 b.       installing the wall panels by putting the prefabricated wall panels on top of the
   embedded parts and fixing between the wall panels;
   c.       in association with the wall surrounded space, placing the floor panels on top of
   the wall panels for fixing.
   In a third aspect, the present invention provides a process for removing the
 o prefabricated house wherein the removal sequence is the floor panel, the wall panel and
   the foundation, and if it includes multi storeys, it is removed according to the sequence
   of the roof, the floor panel and the wall panel.
   The removal process is opposite to the installation process; removal first and installation
   after.
 5 The foundation of prefabricated house needs to be made on site, and then the
   prefabricated wallboard and floor panel are directly installed. The process is easy and
   quick with shortened construction period and lower cost.
   Also provided by the invention is a kit of the components for the prefabricated house.
   As used herein, except where the context requires otherwise, the term 'comprise' and
20 variations of the term, such as 'comprising', 'comprises' and 'comprised', are not
   intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.
   Drawing Description
   Figure 1: Structural Schematic
   Figure 2: Installation Diagram of Figure 1;
25 Figure 3: Schematic diagram of Embedded Parts in Figure 1;
                                                 3

   Figure 4: Installation of foundation and wall panel in Figure 1;
   Figure 5: Figure 1 wall panels, floor panels installed diagram;
   Figure 6: Wall Structure Diagram.
   Mode of Execution
 5 The following information will be in conjunction with accompanying figures. It will
   describe the technical proposal completely and clearly. Apparently, the described
   example is merely part of the invention. Based on examples, this invention is obtained
   without creative work, belong to the scope of this invention.
   Example 1, prefabricated house, with reference to Figures 1-2, two stories, including the
 o foundation 1, wall panel 2, floor panel 3, roof 4, wall panel 2 are fixedly mounted on the
   foundation 1 by the embedded parts. Wall panel 2 is fixedly connected with the floor
   panel 3 on top of it. Roof 4 is on top of floor panel 3. Foundation 1, wall panel 2 and
   floor panel 3 are formed a closed space. Wall panel 2 is on top of floor panel 3. Wall
   panel 2 is connected between each other. Roof 4 is on top of floor panel 3. Wall panel 2
 5 and floor panel 3 formed the closed space of first floor. All of the wall panel 2 are
   provided with doors and windows, respectively, as required.
   The embedding member 5 is on foundation 1, referring to Fig. 3, comprises connecting
   plate 5-1 provided with bolt hole, two connecting plates 5-2 on the connecting plate 5-1.
   The inside of the board is provided with bolt hole, and the outer sides of the two cards
20 are provided with reinforcing ribs 5-3.
   Connection between foundation 1 and wall panel 2 refers to Figure 4. Wall panel 2 and
   floor panel 3 comprise two layers of inorganic veneers and filled insulation panel.
   Insulation is filled between the inorganic veneers. Insulation panels are surrounded by
   square steel pipe with bolt hole. Bolt hole is reserved on foundation 1. The embedding
25 member is fixed on the foundation 1 by bolts. Wall panel 2 is placed on the inside of the
   cardboard 5-2 of the embedded parts. Bolts are sequentially passed through the bolt
   holes in the cardboard and the steel frame, and fixed wall panels to the foundation.
                                                 4

    The connection between wall panels and floor panels refers to Figure 5. The square
    steel tube adjacent to wall panels has bolt hole. Through bolts, two wall panels are
    connected with each other. Wall panel and floor panel connection is made through bolt
    hole on the square pipe, connecting by bolts.
 5  The method of installing prefabricated house includes the following steps;
    d. Foundation
         After the foundation is ready, it adopts conventional methods, pours foundation
         according to requirements, and fixes the embedded parts on the foundation through
         bolts.
 o  e. Wall Panel Installation on Ground Floor
         Putting the prefabricated wall panels in accordance with requirements onto the
         embedded parts by bolts. Wall panels are fixed connection through bolts.
    f. Floor Panel Installation on Ground Floor
         In associate with the wall surrounded space, floor panels are placed on top of wall
 5       for fixing by bolts.
    g. Two Stories Installation
          Wall panel need to be connected with the floor panel of ground floor. Wall panels
           need to be connected with each other. The top of wall panel connects with floor
           panel.
 .0 h. Roof Installation
         Roof is installed on the top floorboard.
    The demolition process of prefabricated house shall be removed in sequence of roof,
    first floor panel, first floor wall panel, ground floor panel, ground floor wall panel and
25  foundation.
    The removal process is opposite to the installation process; removal first and installation
    after.
    Example 2
    The structure of prefabricated house 2 is exactly same as example 1 with the same
30  installation method. The differences is between the wall panels, between wall panel and
    floor panels, the connections are made by welding. When welding connected, it doesn't
    need to set up bolt hole or process mounting hold. Removal process is opposite to
    installation process, namely, removal first and installation after.
                                                   5

  The foregoing is only a preferred embodiment of this invention and is not intended to
  limit the invention. For example, if the prefabricated house has one or more than three
  layers, any of which is within the spirit and principles of the invention modifications,
  equivalents, variations, and the like are intended to be included within the scope of the
5 present invention.
                                               6

   Claim
        1. A prefabricated house, including:
        a foundation, at least one wall panel and at least one floor panel, wherein the
 5 foundation includes an embedded part to which the at least one wall panel(s) is
   mounted; and
        fixed parts connected with the at least one floor panel and between wall panels;
        wherein the at least one floor panel, the foundation and the at least one wall panel
   form a closed space, and the at least one wall panel is preset with a door and/or a
 0 window.
        2. A prefabricated house according to claim 1, characterized in its plurality of
   layers, wherein the floor panel is fixedly mounted from a first floor to a next floor and the
   wall panel is fixed with the floor panel, wherein a closed space is formed between the
 5 wall board and the floor panel, and further doors and windows are respectively provided
   on the wall board.
        3. A prefabricated house according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that the wall
   panel and the floor panel comprise two layers of inorganic panels and thermal and
20 sound insulation filler, including but not limited to, polyurethane, rock wool and glass
   wool insulation panel, wherein polyurethane is filled between two layers of inorganic
   decorative panel, and thermal insulation panel are provided with square steel pipe
   frame with bolt hole.
25      4. A prefabricated house according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in the embedding
   member comprises connecting plate with bolt hole, wherein the connecting plate is
   provided with two pallets in parallel to place the wall panels and cardboard is equipped
   with bolt holes.
                                                 7

        5. A prefabricated house according to claim 4, characterized in a reinforcing bar on
   the outer sides of the two pallets.
 5      6. A prefabricated house according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in a roof being
   set above the floor panel.
        7. A method of installing the prefabricated house according to any one of claims 1
   6, characterized in the following steps;
 0
        a. providing the foundation, e.g adopting conventional methods, and fixing the
   embedded parts on the foundation through bolts;
        b. installing the wall panels by putting the prefabricated wall panels on top of the
   embedded parts and fixing between the wall panels;
 5      c. in association with the wall surrounded space, placing the floor panels on top of
   the wall panels for fixing.
        8. The method of installing the prefabricated house according to claim 7,
   characterized in the following steps;
20      for installing two or more storeys, eg four or more storeys, according to the wall
   panel connection on the floor panel, wall panels are connected and the floor panel is
   fixed on top of the wall panel.
        9. A prefabricated house installed by the steps of the method of claim 7 or 8.
                                                8

       10. A process for removing the prefabricated house according to any one of claims
  1-6, wherein the removal sequence is the floor panel, the wall panel and the foundation,
  and if it includes multi storeys, it is removed according to the sequence of the roof, the
5 floor panel and the wall panel.
       11. A kit of components for a prefabricated house, which components are as set out
  in any one of claims 1 to 6.
                                                9

                  1002006556
                               <U+2701><U+2702>
<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              5   Figure 1
         10

                  1002006556
<removed-date>
                               2/5
<removed-apn>
              5   Figure 2
         10

                  1002006556
<removed-date>
                               3/5
<removed-apn>
              5   Figure 3
         10

                  1002006556
<removed-date>
                               4/5
<removed-apn>
                  Figure 4
              5

                  1002006556
<removed-date>
                               5/5
<removed-apn>
                  Figure 5
              5   Figure 6

