                                            ABSTRACT
There is disclosed a sterilization container assembly, said sterilization container assembly
comprising: a sterilization container for holding a surgical instrument, said sterilization
container formed to allow sterilant to enter and residual sterilant to exit so that the surgical
instrument in said sterilization container can be subjected to a sterilization process, wherein
said sterilization container further comprises a sensor module receiver; and a removable
sensor module connectable to said sensor module receiver, with said removable sensor
module comprising, a sensor for measuring a characteristic of the environment inside said
sterilization container during the sterilization process and generating signals representative
of the measured environmental characteristic.

                         1/65
                                     70
          52       54                72
560
    58--~    CPP66            c2 H O
                                 (9)
     62 -
                      64
                       FIG. 1

  STERILIZATION CONTAINER CAPABLE OF PROVIDING AN INDICATION
 REGARDING WHETHER OR NOT SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS STERILIZED IN
                                             THE
                  CONTAINER WERE PROPERLY STERILIZED
   [0001A] The entire content of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application
    No. 2014244561 as originally filed is incorporated herein by reference.
                            FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]       This invention relates generally to sterilization
systems    for surgical instruments.                 More particularly, this
invention relates to a container and electronic sensor
module for monitoring and verifying appropriate
sterilization       measurements have been met during a
sterilization process and a method for using an electronic
sensor module for determining if surgical instruments within
the container have been properly exposed to a set of
required process         measurements during a sterilization
process cycle.
                        BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]       Sterilization of instruments and equipment used in
medical and surgical procedures is important to prevent
post-surgical infections in patients.                       Hospitals and medical
facilities utilize a variety of cleaning and sterilization
techniques and methods to re-process                     soiled or previously
used surgical instruments.                 A hospital or medical center
typically includes a sterile processing department that
handles the cleaning and sterilization of medical
instruments     of the facility.
[0003]       The sterile processing department commonly has
several    sections including a cleaning section, a
sterilization section and a sterile storage section.
Surgical equipment used during medical procedures return
                                              1

from the operating room to the cleaning section.     In the
cleaning section, the surgical instruments are cleaned of
any visible liquid or solid medical waste and processed
through a manual  or an automated washing process.    The
automated washer uses high pressure streams of water and
detergent to remove debris and residue from instrument
surfaces.   The washer exposes surgical instruments to high
temperature water and sometimes damaging chemicals    for a
period of time.   Some surgical instruments are not amenable
to processing through the automated washer and are required
to be manually washed.
[0004]    After washing, the surgical instruments undergo a
functional equipment inspection to check for broken parts or
defects in the surgical equipment.    Defective parts are
repaired or replaced.   Next, the individual surgical
instruments  are prepared for sterilization by placement of
the surgical instruments in containers.    Some surgical
instruments  are required to have a certain geometrical
orientation during the sterilization process so that
sterilant may effectively enter, contact and leave the
surgical equipment during processing.    The instruments can
be grouped together by procedure to form a surgical tool
set.
[0005]    To preserve the sterility of the surgical
instruments during handling and storage after sterilization,
surgical instruments are typically placed into various
container systems  that form a sterile barrier around the
instruments.   Given that this barrier is  intended to prevent
ambient microbial organisms from adhering to the sterilized
instruments  these barriers are sometimes referred to as
microbial barriers or SBSs   (sterile barrier systems).   One
popular container system in use today is one that is
constructed with two types  of materials, one material being
                                2

a "rigid" impermeable material and the other material that
is a microbial filter.  The microbial filter is  constructed
to allow the sterilizing agent, typically a vapor or gas, to
penetrate during sterilization but prevents microorganisms
such as mycobacterium, vegetative bacteria, viruses,   fungi,
and bacterial spores from entering the container.    Another
container system is formed by using a perforated "rigid"
material such as aluminum or stainless steel and the entire
perforated container is wrapped with a microbial filter like
material.  The perforated "rigid" material provides
structure to transport, handle and stack the containers of
surgical instruments, but by itself does not prevent micro
organisms from entering the container.   The sterile barrier
material protects the surgical instruments from
contamination during post sterilization handling and
storage.  The outer sterile wrap can be a spun polypropylene
wrap and is permeable to sterilizing fluids or gases while
forming a microbial barrier.   When a container system is not
used, individual surgical instruments can be packed in a
flexible envelope material such as Tyvek typically
constructed of a semi-permeable Tyvek on one side to allow
the sterilizing agent to ingress  and egress, and a non
permeable Mylar on the other side that allows the contents
to be viewed
[0006]    To visually verify that containers of surgical
instruments have been exposed to sterilizing agents,
chemical indicators may be added to the inside and/or the
outside of the sterile barrier system prior to undergoing
the sterilization process.   Chemical indicators are
specifically designed for the type of sterilizing agent, gas
or vapor used.  The Class I Chemical Indicator is a chemical
indicator system recognized by the FDA and JCAHO for use in
hospitals in the United States.   European regulatory
                               3

agencies currently recognize proof of exposure chemical
indicators, which provide parametric release, as well as
Class I chemical indicators. A Class I chemical indicator
provides a visual indication that it has been exposed to a
sterilization agent, but does not indicate the level of
exposure or amount of time of exposure.   External chemical
indicators are typically used so the hospital  sterile
processing department personnel can determine where the
individual containers of equipment are in the workflow
within the department and the internal chemical indicators
are used to indicate to the hospital personnel setting up
for a surgical procedure that the equipment inside of the
sterile barrier has been exposed to a sterilization agent.
If the external chemical indicator does not indicate
exposure to the sterilization agent within the Sterile
Processing Department, the surgical tool  set must be
processed to insure sterility.   If the internal chemical
indicator does not indicate exposure to the sterilization
agent when the container is  opened, the container and
equipment must be returned to the Sterile Processing
Department for reprocessing, typically beginning with the
cleaning process.  Determining that a container of surgical
equipment has not been exposed to a sterilizing agent, while
preparing for a surgical procedure is  disruptive to the
efficiency of the operating room and requires that another
set of surgical equipment be located and properly set
ultimately causing schedule delays and/or other adverse
disruptions.  Various types of chemical indicators have been
developed including tapes, paper strips and catalytically
activated systems.  Tapes,  labels, and paper strips  are
printed with an ink that changes color when exposed to a
specific sterilization agent or chemical.   Integrating or
wicking paper is made with an ink or chemical at one end
                               4

that melts and wicks along the paper over time under the
desired process values. A color bar reaches an acceptable
area if the process values are met.   The chemical indicators
are different for the various types of sterilization
modalities,  and thus the chemical indicator visual changes
are not the same across sterilization methods.   Sometimes
the color change indicating exposure to one modality, e.g.
steam autoclave,  is opposite the color change for a
different sterilizing modality, e.g. hydrogen peroxide
sterilization.   This causes confusion for the health care
workers when reading and interpreting the various chemical
indicator color changes.
[0007]    Once the surgical instruments are fully packed and
ready for sterilization, the surgical tool sets are
processed through a sterilization process to destroy
microorganisms.   Various sterilization methods and agents
have been used to sterilize surgical instruments.
[0008]    Saturated Steam heat is one sterilant that is used
to destroy microorganisms. Pressures higher than atmospheric
pressure are necessary to increase the temperature of the
steam for destruction of microorganisms that pose a greater
challenge to kill.   The saturated steam at a required
temperature and time must penetrate and reach every surface
of the items to be sterilized.   A sterilization chamber
contains the articles to be sterilized.   When steam
initially enters the sterilizer chamber under pressure, it
condenses upon contact with cold items. This condensation
liberates heat, simultaneously heating and wetting items in
the load.   The entire load must be exposed to moist heat for
a minimum time and at a minimum defined temperature in order
to affect sterilization.   For example, one type of surgical
tool set may require 34 minutes at 270 degrees Fahrenheit to
destroy the micro-organisms and another 20 minutes of
                               5

evacuation to dry the instruments within the sterile barrier
so that condensation does not accumulate within the sterile
barrier.  A minimum temperature-time and steam concentration
relationship is required to be maintained throughout all
portions within the sterile barrier and across the
sterilizer chamber load to complete sterilization.                                                                      The
time, temperature and steam concentration to destroy micro
organisms depends upon many factors.                                                        For example the size,
surface area, thermal mass, orientations and depths of
internal cavities of the contents of the load within the
sterile barrier as well as the steam penetration properties
of the sterile barrier used can affect the reliability to
destroy micro-organisms. After the steam cycle has been
completed, the water condensate must be evaporated to dry
contents of the load to maintain sterility.                                                               A vacuum can be
drawn on the chamber to assist in the evaporation of any
remaining water.                The normative reference commonly used to
determine appropriate sterilization exposure times are
listed in Table 5 which is                                     taken directly from ANSI/AAMI
ST79: 2010/A2:          2011 "Comprehensive Guide to Steam
Sterilization and Sterility Assurance in Health Care
Facilities, Amendment 2".
              Table 5-Minimum cycle times for dynamic-air-removal steam sterilization cycles
                     Item                        Exposure time                 Exposure time         Drying times
                                                at 132'C (270'F)              at 135*C (2T5*F)
             Wpra d insIrumes                       4 minutes                                      20 to 30 minutes
                                                                                  3 m nuts             16 minutes
                 Texfiie parks                      4 minutes                                       5 to 20 minutes
                                                                                  3 minutes            3 mnute
               Wrapped utensi                       4 minutes20                                           rinutes
                                                                                  3 mniutes            16 11mnjtes
             Unwrapped nc.nPonOus                   3 minutes                     3 mnutes                 NA
             Unwrapped nonpous
                     a     nd                       4 minutes                     3 minutes                NA
            NOTE-This table representsthe variationin sterilizermanufacturers' recommendations for exposureat different
           temperatures.                                                          recommendations.
                         Fora specific sterilizer. consult only that manufacturer's
                                                                       6

[0009]    Some surgical equipment such as gastroscopes and
endoscopes are sensitive to the steam and high temperatures
required by steam sterilization.    Hydrogen peroxide vapor is
another agent used to sterilize surgical instruments.
Hydrogen peroxide is vaporized externally from the
sterilization chamber in a defined reaction chamber.    The
vaporized hydrogen peroxide is   introduced into the
sterilization chamber, at which point it contacts the
sterile barrier and passes through the barrier to contact
the contents of the container to be sterilized.    The
hydrogen peroxide vapor is introduced into a sterilization
chamber containing the articles to be sterilized.    Hydrogen
peroxide sterilizers today typically operate at much lower
temperatures than steam sterilizers with maximum
temperatures being around 122 degrees Fahrenheit for a
hydrogen peroxide sterilizer.    A minimum hydrogen peroxide
concentration, pressure changing "pulse cycle", and
temperature relationships over time are required to be
maintained throughout all portions of the load to complete
sterilization.  After the hydrogen peroxide vapor cycle has
been completed, the chamber is purged of residual and
condensed hydrogen peroxide.   RF energy may be used to
energize the residual hydrogen peroxide vapor during this
aeration phase creating a plasma that facilitates the
aeration process. Some older plasma systems utilized RF
energy during the sterilant exposure phase with the
expectation that the plasma phase would be more effective at
killing micro-organisms than the vapor phase.    Residual
hydrogen peroxide is required to be removed from the
surgical instruments and packaging prior to use in order to
prevent burns and injury to healthcare workers   and patients.
[00010]   Other liquid and gaseous agents can also be used
to sterilize surgical instruments such as ethylene oxide
                               7

gas, formaldehyde gas and ozone gas.    These sterilizing
agents use "low temperature" sterilization conditions as do
the Hydrogen Peroxide sterilizers described above allowing
their use on sensitive medical equipment as an alternate to
potentially damaging high temperature steam sterilization.
Unfortunately, these gases are somewhat higher in toxicity
and/or are difficult to control during the sterilization
process so they do not enjoy     wide-spread use throughout
hospital systems.
[00011]   Regulations within the medical device industry
require the Original Equipment Manufacturer    (OEM) to provide
instructions to the Hospitals and Health care providers on
proper use and maintenance  of reusable medical equipment.
The OEM can be the designer, manufacturer or distributor of
reusable medical equipment.   Within the category of reusable
medical equipment, certain equipment and instruments can
become contaminated by biological material from the patient
like bodily fluids, mucus and tissue during use so that     it
must be cleaned and/or sterilized before being used again.
Certain reusable medical equipment such as Colonoscopes
cannot be sterilized using the equipment in a hospital
central processing department. Based on the risks versus
benefits analysis sterilization can be replaced by high
level disinfection for these devices.    The generally
accepted definition of a sterilization process is,    "the
reduction of 10^6 organisms down to zero",   and high level
disinfection process is,  "the reduction of 10^3 organisms
down to zero".  Sterilization is   defined as the Sterility
Assurance Level  (SAL) which utilizes  the, "overkill method",
to show a 12 log reduction of the most challenging organism
to the method of sterilization being employed.     A 12 log
reduction means that there is a one in one million
probability of a single viable organism surviving the
                               8

sterilization process.   Disinfection is defined in three
categories;  High Level Disinfection   (HLD): Many or all
pathogenic microorganisms with the exception of bacterial
spores, Intermediate Level Disinfection     (ILD): May be cidal
for mycobacterium, vegetative bacteria, most viruses, and
most fungi;  but does not necessarily kill bacterial spores,
and Low Level Disinfection   (LLD): Kill most vegetative
bacteria, some fungi,  and some viruses.     The OEM is
responsible to provide proper cleaning and sterilization      (or
disinfection) instructions to the Health Care users.      The
OEM is not allowed to randomly select cleaning and
sterilization techniques prior to selling new reusable
medical equipment, they are required to validate the
cleaning and sterilization processes.     For steam
sterilization validations OEMs can use the American National
Standard ANSI/AAMI ST79 in the United States and ISO 17665-1
in other countries.   These mentioned standards are
incorporated by reference to this patent application.      These
standards include sterilization    (or disinfection) validation
testing protocols for the OEMs regarding the cleaning and
sterilization methods so that Health Care facilities do not
have to individually validate these methods using their
sterilization equipment for each medical device they
purchase.   Even though these standards are accepted
throughout the medical device industry by the Healthcare
Regulatory agencies and the Healthcare providers, there is
potential for human error, uncontrollable variability and
sterilizing system equipment problems that enter into the
Healthcare delivery system which may cause inconsistencies
in the sterilization or disinfection results for reusable
medical equipment.   Examples:  the OEM validates a new set of
equipment per the governing standards.     The governing
standards require that organism X be used to inoculate the
                                9

new set of equipment for a given sterilization agent.        The
OEM follows  the governing protocols and validates the new
equipment to a 10E-6 Sterility Assurance Level       (SAL) using
these nominal steam process values in a small chamber steam
autoclave able to hold only one set of equipment       (e.g. 14" x
14"  x 24" chamber).   The OEMs instructions resulting from
the SAL validation could be as follows: Wrapped using 500
grade wrap, Dynamic air removal      (pre-vac)cycle,
                        0
Sterilization temp 132    Celcius, Exposure time   4 minutes, Dry
time 30 minutes.    The hospital    sets up the sterile barrier
system and follows all instructions, but instead of a single
container autoclave, they have a large steam autoclave where
the chamber can hold 40 sterile barrier system containers
and a wheeled shelving rack where they roll the loaded rack
into the autoclave.    Uncontrolled variable:     The OEM
validated their equipment in an ambient temperature of 250C
 (pre-sterilized equipment started at 250C) and the hospital
stores  their pre-sterilized equipment in a conditioned
environment at 200C. Thermodynamically, the lower starting
temperature and a significantly larger total chamber load at
the hospital  reduces the actual exposure     steam/temperature
duration below the validated level for proper organism
destruction.   Human error:   the Hospital followed all
instructions properly, but a heavy medical instrument that
did not have a container was included inside the sterile
barrier system.-   This caused a reduction of the temperature
build up of all equipment inside the sterile barrier system.
Sterilization equipment problem example:      a power spike
advances the sterilizer by 1 minute thus      shortening the
actual exposure duration by that amount.       Similar examples
can be established for other sterilization processes such as
Hydrogen peroxide sterilization processes and methods.
Another factor that can cause problems with the
                                 10

sterilization of medical devices is where a mixed load of
equipment is  sterilized together in a single process.    The
mixed load in this example is medical equipment that has    the
same sterilization time duration, but different dry times
across the various containers which are sterilized together.
If this occurs, there could be some residual moisture
retained in the equipment that requires a longer drying
time.   This residual moisture can wick out.   This wicking
out results in a water stain forming on the SBS wrap used on
a perforated container, but the water stain is not
discovered until the operating room personnel are preparing
the equipment for the next surgical procedure.    Once the
operating room personnel notice the water stain during set
up, they have to return all of the equipment for
reprocessing to the sterile processing department.     The SBS
materials are not designed to maintain their anti-microbial
properties  if they become wet.   Since it is not known when
or how it became wet,  the entire group of equipment becomes
suspect due to the water stain and thus must be reprocessed.
These are some examples of problems that desire a better
system and solution so that healthcare delivery is efficient
and safe.
[00012]    Further, the current practice is  to, as part of
the process of sterilizing a surgical instrument, perform a
test to verify that the sterilizer in which the instrument
is sterilized is properly functioning.    This test is
performed with a biological indicator.    A biological
indicator includes known number and type of microorganisms
that have an appreciable resistance to the mode of
sterilization being practiced.
[00013]    The biological indicator is placed in a tray or
container and is processed through a specific sterilization
process.   The biological indicator can be placed within a
                               11

sterile barrier and wrap prior to processing such that its
exposure to the sterilant is similar to a surgical tool  set.
Many biological  indicators used today are self contained.
The self contained biological indicators have a housing
sealed to a microbial barrier material that allows a path
for the sterilizing agent to penetrate and reach the
biological agent, but not allow other micro-organisms to
enter.   These biological indicators do not require a
container or wrap during use.
[00014]    Therefore, there are typically different
biological  indicators for each sterilization process
modality used in a sterile processing department.   This
requires the sterile processing department to be trained to
properly execute the biological indicator tests for every
sterilizer and sterilizing modality within the department.
For example if a hospital has both autoclave steam and
hydrogen peroxide equipment, the sterile processing
department has to purchase and maintain both types of
biological  indicators and be trained to properly process the
biological  indicators.  Also, the different manufacturers of
hydrogen peroxide equipment typically each require a
specific biological indicator be used in this test.   So if a
sterile processing department has two hydrogen peroxide
systems,  each made by a different manufacturer, the sterile
processing department needs to become proficient at
operating two biological indicator tests,  one for each
system.   Bacterial spores have been used as biological
indicators.  The biological indicator is sealed or enclosed
in a protective package.   After exposure to the
sterilization process, the biological indicator is placed in
a growth medium and cultivated for a period of time, after
which they are read by department personnel.   For example,
steam autoclave biological indicators use Geobacillus
                               12

stearothermophilus at a 106 population and are incubated for
a minimum of 24 hours in a growth medium.     For Hydrogen
Peroxide sterilization agents, a Geobacillus
stearothermophilus at a 106 population is used and incubated
in a growth medium at a specific temperature for 24 hours.
Subsequent growth of the biological agent indicates a
failure of the sterilization process and subsequent no
growth of the biological agent microorganisms under suitable
conditions  indicates the proper operation of the
sterilization process for that particular cycle.      Because
the biological agent used in biological indicators are more
resistant to their specific sterilization agents than common
microorganisms potentially found on surgical instruments,
the demonstration that the biological indicator has been
inactivated provides assurance that other microorganisms,
including potential pathogens in the load, have also been
destroyed.
[00015]    For Hydrogen peroxide sterilizers, a typical
sterile processing department runs a biological indicator
test every 24 hours as a check on the proper operation of
the equipment.   The biological   indicator test is typically
run by itself or with the first lot of medical equipment
processed through the sterilizer machine for the day.      A
biological  indicator test can take up to 24 hours to
complete.   Consequently, subsequent   loads of surgical
instruments  and tools are quarantined for the time period
required to complete the biological    indicator test  so as to
verify that the sterilizer is properly functioning.
[00016]    Many sterilization processes take less than an
hour to perform.   However, owing to the need to verify that
the sterilizer is properly functioning, an instrument can be
quarantined for up to the additional    24 hours required to
obtain the results of the biological indicator test.      This
                               13

means that at a hospital, at any given moment in time, a
significant number of the hospital's surgical instruments
may be in quarantine.   This requires the hospital to have a
large  inventory of surgical instruments so that, at any
given instant, a sufficient number of instruments are
sterilized and ready for use.    Requiring the hospital to
maintain this large inventory of instruments can add to the
cost of maintaining the hospital.
[00017]    If the biological indicator test fails, all of the
lots of surgical equipment processed in the sterilizer
machine, since the last passed biological indicator test,
are potentially non-sterile.    This equipment is then
reprocessed again through the cleaning and sterilization
process.
[00018]    If first biological indicator test indicates the
sterilizer is operating properly, it is assumed that the
sterilizer has sterilized the instruments placed in the
sterilizer up until the execution of the next biological
indicator test.   This assumption is made even though there
is a possibility that between the two consecutive tests,   the
sterilizer may start to malfunction.    The fact that the
sterilizer may have started malfunctioning is not known
until the results of the second biological indicator tests
are read.   In the interim, however, the equipment sterilized
between the first and second tests may have been released
from quarantine and used in a procedure.    This means the
equipment used on a patient may be a piece of equipment that
was not properly sterilized.
[00019]    Further, having to execute a biological indicator
test requires resources include the time of hospital
personnel.
[00020]    The current processes for determining the proper
operation of the various sterilizing equipment's
                               14

sterilization processes and the use of microbial barriers
for subsequent storage have many problems that add time and
expense to the entire sterilization process.      The use of
microbial barriers and wraps to encase surgical instruments
adds expense in the purchase of the materials and time for
department personnel to wrap and create the sterile barrier
containing the surgical instruments.      The use of microbial
barriers also increases the difficulty of the sterilant to
enter the wrapped package and complete sterilization,
particularly for low vapor pressure sterilants such as
hydrogen peroxide vapor. Variations     in sterile barrier
materials and how they are applied will introduce variation
in the sterilant concentration within the wrapped package.
Variations   in the mass, materials of construction, and
surface area of the instrument     load can also introduce
variation in the sterilant concentration within the wrapped
package.
[00021]    The use of chemical indicators adds expense in the
purchase of the chemical indicators and the time for
department personnel to place and read the chemical
indictors.    The use of biological indicators adds expense in
the purchase of the biological     indicators and the time for
department personnel to place,     incubate and subsequently
read the results of the biological indictor.
[00022]    If either of the chemical or biological indicator
tests  fail,  all of the unused lots of surgical equipment
processed in the sterilizer machine, since the last
acceptable test, must be reprocessed again through the
cleaning and sterilization process, adding time, expense and
increasing the inventory of surgical instruments required.
As discussed above, there is a possibility that instruments
that may not have been sterilized were used on patients.       If
this event occurs appropriate action may need to be taken.
                                15

In addition, if the sterilizer has an equipment or process
problem during one biological incubation period, this
problem may not be detectable until the reading at the end
of the subsequent biological indicator   (BI) incubation
period  (by reading a failed biological indicator in the
subsequent test).   This allows the possibility of releasing
medical equipment from quarantine from the time the problem
occurs  (during the first incubation period) until the time
of the failed BI  test.
[00023]    Another problem with the current processes for
determining the validity of a sterilization process is that
many of the steps in the process depend upon human action
and judgment and as such are prone to human error.    Human
error can occur by incorrect orientation and placement of
surgical instruments  in racks and containers. Human error
can occur by placing items so that they block the flow of
sterilant into the container and adversely affect
sterilization efficacy of the items therein. Human error can
occur by placing too many instruments within the container
adversely affecting sterilization efficacy. Human error can
occur by stacking containers on top of one another so that
the sterilant is not able to flow freely into all of them.
Human error can occur by incorrectly operating the
sterilization machine.   Human error can occur by incorrect
placement and reading of chemical indicators.    Human error
can occur by incorrect placement, incubation, and reading of
biological  indicators.
                   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[00024]    This invention is directed to a new and useful
system and method for determining if surgical instruments
have completed a sterilization process cycle and have met a
set of required process   measurements during the
                               16

sterilization process cycle.     The system includes a
container defined by several panels.     The panels define a
cavity within the container and an opening into the
container.   The container receives surgical instruments that
may be within a removable   insert tray into the cavity.    A
cover is coupled to the container and is movable between an
open position and a closed position.     A sensor module is
mounted to the container.    The sensor module includes one or
more sensors.   The sensors  are configured to and positioned
to monitor at least one characteristic of the environment
inside the container.   The sensor module includes a
processor with instructions regarding how to interpret the
environmental s obtained from the sensors.
[00025]    The container of instruments is placed within a
sterilization chamber, the chamber door is    closed and a
sterilization cycle performed. The sensors monitor the
changes in the characteristics of the container environment
as a result of the sterilization cycle.     The processor
compares the environmental measurements taken by the sensors
within previously validated sterilization process
measurements.   These validated sterilization process
measurements  are measurements of the container environment
taken during previous sterilization processes in which
subsequent testing has  shown were successful.
[00026]    If the evaluation of the environment measurements
indicates that the environment within the container was
sufficient to affect success sterilization of the
instruments,  the processor indicates that the surgical
instruments were successfully sterilized.     Alternatively,
the evaluation may indicate the container environment was
not an environment in which it can be certain that the
instruments  in the container were sterilized.    If this is
the result of evaluation, the processor presents an
                                17

indication that the instruments were not properly
sterilized.
[00027]   A benefit of this system is  that soon after the
sterilization process is performed, an indication is
provided regarding whether or not the instruments were
exposed to a process in which they were properly sterilized.
               BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[00028]   The invention is pointed out with particularity in
the claims.  The above and further features and advantages of
the invention are understood by the following Detailed
Description taken in conjunction with the accompanying
drawings in which:
[00029]   FIG.  1 is a diagrammatic view of a sterilization
chamber used for sterilization of medical/surgical
instruments;
[00030]   FIG. 2 is a top perspective view of a container
used for sterilization of medical/surgical instruments of
this invention showing the container separated from the
cover and an instrument rack in accordance with one
embodiment;
[00031]   FIG. 3 is an enlarged perspective view of the
container of FIG. 2   illustrating the electronic sensor
module separated from the container in accordance with one
embodiment;
[00032]   FIG. 4A is a rear view of the electronic sensor
module in accordance with one embodiment;
[00033]   FIG. 4B is a front view of the electronic sensor
module;
[00034]   FIG. 4C is a front cut-away view of the electronic
sensor module;
[00035]   FIG. 4D is a bottom view of the module of FIG. 4A;
                               18

[00036]   FIG. 5 is a top perspective view of an automatic
closing container used for sterilization of medical/surgical
instruments with the cover in an open position in accordance
with one embodiment;
[00037]   FIG. 6 is a top perspective view of the automatic
closing container of FIG. 5 with the cover in a closed
position;
[00038]   FIG. 7A is an exploded top perspective view of
another container for sterilization of medical/surgical
instruments having a false bottom in accordance with one
embodiment;
[00039]   FIG. 7B is an enlarged partial cross-sectional
view of the cover of FIG. 7A;
[00040]   FIG. 7C is an enlarged cross-sectional view of one
side wall embodiment of the container of FIG. 7A
illustrating details of a hermetic connector and internal
light emitting diodes;
[00041]   FIG. 7D is an enlarged cross-sectional view of
another side wall embodiment of the container of FIG. 7A
illustrating details of a hermetic connector and external
light emitting diodes;
[00042]   FIG. 8 is an exploded top perspective view of an
additional container for sterilization of medical/surgical
instruments having a false side in accordance with one
embodiment;
[00043]   FIG. 9A is an exploded top perspective view of yet
another container for sterilization of medical/surgical
instruments having sensors mounted in the cover in
accordance with one embodiment;
[00044]   FIG. 9B is a bottom view of the cover of FIG.  9A;
[00045]   FIG. 10 is an exploded top perspective view of one
more container for sterilization of medical/surgical
                              19

instruments having sensors mounted to a tray or rack in
accordance with one embodiment;
[00046]   FIG. 11A is an exploded top perspective view of
one more container for sterilization of medical/surgical
instruments having a removable optical sensor module in
accordance with one embodiment;
[00047]   FIG. 11B is an assembled top perspective view of
the removable optical sensor module of FIG. 11A;
[00048]   FIG. 11C is an assembled top perspective view of
the container of FIG. 11A;
[00049]   FIG. 12A is a top perspective view of a sensor
printed circuit board for sensing steam concentration and
other characteristics of the environment in the container in
accordance with one embodiment;
[00050]   FIG. 12B is a top perspective view of another
sensor printed circuit board for sensing hydrogen peroxide
concentration and other environmental characteristics in
accordance with one embodiment;
[00051]   FIG. 12C is a top perspective view of a sensor
printed circuit board for sensing hydrogen peroxide
concentration and other environmental characteristics in
accordance with one embodiment;
[00052]   FIG. 13 is an electrical block diagram of the
electronic sensor module in accordance with one embodiment;
[00053]   FIG. 14 is a block diagram of software programs or
sets of instructions stored by a memory or machine readable
medium in accordance with one embodiment;
[00054]   FIG. 15 is a perspective view of a docking station
for use with a container in accordance with one embodiment;
[00055]   FIG. 16 is a perspective view of another docking
station that includes sensor calibration for use with a
container in accordance with one embodiment;
                              20

[00056]    FIG.  17 is a block diagram of the controller of
the docking stations of FIGS.     16 and 17;
[00057]    FIG.  18 is a diagrammatic view of a networked
computer system for tracking container usage and billing in
accordance with one embodiment;
[00058]    FIGS.  19A-1  and 19A-2, when placed side-to-side,
collectively form a table of equipment to be sterilized;
validated sterilization process measurements for the
equipment;  sensor module useage data;    sterilizer process
nominal parameters;    and container identification data;
[00059]    FIGS.  19B-19E are lists of equipment that can be
sterilized based on specific content identifiers and the
weights of at least some of the equipment;
[00060]    FIG. 20A is   a perspective view of an automatic
closing lid cap mounted to a container cover in accordance
with one embodiment;
[00061]    FIG. 20B is   a cross-sectional view of the
automatic closing lid cap of FIG. 20A;
[00062]    FIG. 20C is   an exploded perspective view of the
automatic closing lid cap of FIG. 20A;
[00063]    FIG. 21  is  flowchart of a method of determining if
validated sterilization process measurements within a
container have been achieved during a sterilization process
in accordance with one embodiment;
[00064]    FIG. 22  is  flowchart of a method of validating
container environmental measurements     in accordance with one
embodiment;
[00065]    FIG. 23 is   flowchart of another method of
determining and validating sterilization process
measurements  in accordance with one embodiment;
[00066]    FIG. 24  is  flowchart of an additional method of
determining and validating sterilization process
measurements  in accordance with one embodiment;
                                 21

[00067]   FIG. 25 is  flowchart of a method of monitoring
sterility of a container assembly in accordance with one
embodiment;
[00068]   FIG. 26 is  flowchart of a method of loading
surgical instruments  into a container assembly prior to
sterilization in accordance with one embodiment;
[00069]   FIG. 27  is flowchart of a method of calibrating
sensors in accordance with one embodiment;
[00070]   FIG. 28  is flowchart of a method of monitoring
container usage and billing on a fee per use basis  in
accordance with one embodiment;
[00071]   FIG. 29 is top perspective view of a container and
cover for sterilization of medical/surgical instruments that
includes a removable  sensor assembly in accordance with one
embodiment;
[00072]   FIG. 30  is a cross sectional view of the container
of FIG. 29 illustrating the removable sensor assembly
mounted to the container;
[00073]   FIG. 31  is an exploded perspective view of the
removable sensor assembly of FIG. 29;
[00074]   FIG. 32  is an exploded cross-sectional perspective
view of the removable sensor assembly of FIG. 29;
[00075]   FIG. 33  is an enlarged cross sectional view of the
receiver housing;
[00076]   FIG. 34  is an enlarged cross sectional view of the
receiver cover and retaining ring;
[00077]   FIG. 35  is an enlarged cross sectional view of the
carriage assembly;
[00078]   FIG. 36 is an enlarged cross sectional view of the
removable sensor module;
[00079]   FIG. 37A is  a rear view of the removable sensor
module printed circuit board;
                               22

[00080]   FIG. 37B is  a front view of the removable sensor
module printed circuit board;
[00081]   FIG. 38 is a front view of the container printed
circuit board;
[00082]   FIG. 39 is an assembled cross sectional view of
the removable sensor assembly illustrating the removable
sensor module separated from the receiver;
[00083]   FIG. 40 is an assembled cross sectional view of
the removable sensor assembly illustrating the removable
sensor module seated in an initial position in the receiver;
[00084]   FIG. 41 is an assembled cross sectional view of
the removable sensor assembly illustrating the internal
locking mechanism being actuated and opening of the plate to
expose the sensors to the internal container environment;
[00085]   FIG. 42 is an assembled cross sectional view of
the removable sensor assembly illustrating the removable
sensor module in the locked position and ready to collect
data during a sterilization process cycle;
[00086]   FIG. 43 is an assembled cross sectional view of
the removable sensor assembly illustrating closing of the
plate and removing the removable sensor module from the
receiver;
[00087]   FIG. 44 is a perspective view of docking station
that includes sensor calibration for use with the removable
sensor assembly of FIG. 29 in accordance with one
embodiment;
[00088]   FIG. 45 is  flowchart of a method of determining if
validated sterilization process measurements within a
container have been completed using the container and
removable sensor assembly of FIG. 29 in accordance with one
embodiment;
[00089]   FIG. 46 is an exploded top perspective view of an
automatic closing container assembly used for sterilization
                               23

of medical/surgical instruments    in accordance with one
embodiment;
[00090]   FIG. 47  is an enlarged top perspective view of a
scissors lift mechanism within the automatic closing
container assembly of FIG. 46;
[00091]   FIG. 48  is an enlarged cross-sectional view of a
moveable frame and container;    and
[00092]   FIG. 49 is   flowchart of a method of determining if
validated sterilization process measurements taken within a
container have been met or exceeded using the automatic
closing container assembly of FIG. 46 in accordance with one
embodiment.
[00093]   FIG. 50  is  flowchart of a method of determining if
verified sterilization process parameters within a container
have been met during a steam sterilization process in
accordance with one embodiment;
[00094]   FIG. 51  is a graph of an example of measured steam
process measurements versus time for the method of FIG.    50;
[00095]   FIG. 52  is  flowchart of a method of determining if
verified sterilization process parameters within a container
have been met during a hydrogen peroxide sterilization
process in accordance with one embodiment;    and
[00096]   FIG. 53  is a graph of an example of measured
hydrogen peroxide process measurements versus time    for the
method of FIG. 52.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
I. Overview
[00097]   FIG. 1 illustrates a sterilization apparatus 50
used for sterilizing medical and surgical instruments.
Sterilization apparatus 50   comprises a sterilization chamber
52 that holds one or more sterilization containers    58.  Each
container 58 can hold one or more surgical instruments that
                                24

are desired to be sterilized.             Sterilization chamber 52
includes a containment vessel 54          that can be sealed after
door 56 is closed.           Containment vessel 54 has          one or more
shelves   60.  Containers 58       are arranged on shelves             60.
[00098]     Sterilization chamber 52 further includes a vacuum
pump  64.   Vacuum pump 62 can decrease the pressure within
containment vessel 54         to below atmospheric pressure.                A
sterilization agent or sterilant is           injected into
containment vessel 54.          Various sterilants can be used
including   gaseous water vapor        or steam   (H 2 0)   70,   hydrogen
peroxide   gas  (H 2 0 2 ) 74 or gaseous  ethylene      oxide     (C 2 H4 0)   74.
At least one of the sterilization agents are introduced into
containment vessel 54 during a sterilization cycle.
[00099]     During a sterilization cycle, the sterilant is
required to come into contact with the all of the surgical
instruments with the containment vessel 54                at a required
concentration for a required time to affect sterilization of
the surgical instruments.          After the sterilization cycle has
been completed, the sterilization chamber must be purged of
any residual or condensed sterilant.            The removal rate of
sterilant from the chamber is increased by the use of vacuum
pump  64.   Drawing a vacuum within containment vessel 54
causes any condensed sterilant to evaporate into a gaseous
state and be removed.
[000100]    Sterilization chamber 52 is         operated using a set
of chamber process parameters          (CPP) 66.     CPP 66 are the
environmental operating conditions generated within
containment vessel 54 by sterilization apparatus 50.                         In one
example embodiment, CPP 66 includes temperature, pressure,
humidity, hydrogen peroxide vapor and time.
                                      25

II.  First Container Embodiment
[000101]   Turning to FIG. 2,  a container assembly 90 of a
first embodiment of this invention is      illustrated.
Container assembly 90 includes a container 100        that is
generally rectangular in shape and is      defined by an opposed
spaced apart planar front panel 102,      a planar rear panel 103
and a pair of opposed spaced apart planar side panels 104.
Panels  102 and 103 are oriented orthogonal to panels 104.          A
planar bottom panel  106 is perpendicular to panels       102,  103
and 104  and forms the bottom of container 100.        An interior
cavity 120  is defined by panels    102,  103,  104 and 106 within
container 100.   Container 100 has outer surfaces 110,        inner
surfaces 112  and an upper peripheral rim 113.        Container 100
can be formed from materials such as stamped or deep drawn
aluminum, stainless steel, plastic or other suitable
materials.
[000102]   Front panel 102 has a window or opening 114
defined therein.   Opening 114 is    covered by a panel 116
formed from a material that is transparent such as acrylic
or glass. Transparent panel 116 allows a user to visually
see the contents of container 100.       Panel 116 is sealed to
the adjacent panel 102.   Panel    116 is  located on front panel
102, but may be located on back panel 103       or side panels
104.
[000103]   Each of side panels   104 has   a recessed portion 122
defined in outer surface 110 that extends from just above
bottom panel 106 to just below rim 113.        A series of holes
124 are defined through recessed portion 122 and extend into
cavity 120.   A pivoting handle    126 is  attached to each side
panel  104 and extends across the width of recessed portion
122.   Handle 126 pivots between a stored position where
handle 126 is adjacent recessed portion 122        (shown in FIG.
2)  and a carrying position where handle     126 extends
                                26

perpendicular to side panel 104.     Handle 126 allows a user
to grasp and lift container 100.
[000104]   A pivoting latch 128   is attached to each side
panel  104 below rim 113 by a hinge   130.   Latch 128 has a U
shaped bail portion 132 that mates with a portion of cover
150.   Latch 128 allows a user to releasably lock cover 150
to container 100.   A pair of spaced apart L-shaped side
rails  136 are mounted to inner surface 112    on opposite sides
of recessed portion 122 and extend perpendicular away from
inner surface 112  towards cavity 120.     An L-shaped bottom
rail  137 is mounted between the ends   of rails  136 at the
bottom of recessed portion 122.     A bar code or RFID tag 135
 (FIG. 3) is mounted to outer surface 110 of side panel     104.
Bar code or RFID tag 135 can contain information about
container assembly 90 such as the type of container or the
contents of container 100.
[000105]   Filter assemblies 140   are mounted in cavity 120
adjacent inner surfaces 112  of side panels 104.     Each filter
assembly 140  is supported and retained by L-shaped rails     136
and 137.   Filter assembly 140 covers holes 124.     Filter
assembly 140  is generally square in shape and has a square
frame  142 and a filter material 144 mounted within frame
142.   Filter material 144 is a microbial barrier material
that is permeable to sterilant.     Here "sterilant" is
understood to be a gas, vapor or aerosol that has ability to
render biological contaminates including microorganisms
innocuous.   Filter material 144   allows sterilant to pass
from the outside of container 100 through holes 124,      through
filter material 144 and into interior cavity 120 where the
sterilant can contact the surgical instruments     180.   Filter
material 144  also forms a microbial barrier preventing
microorganisms from entering into container 100     after
                               27

container 100 has been processed through a sterilization
process.
[000106]   Filter assembly 140 is placed by a user inserting
and sliding frame 142   along side rails 136 until frame   142
abuts bottom rail 137.    Rails  136 and 137  are dimensioned to
force  filter assembly 140 to be compressed against the inner
surface 112  of side panel  104 when inserted into rails   136
and 137.   Rails 136,  137 and frame  142 are dimensioned such
that when filter assembly 142 is mounted in container 100,      a
seal is  formed between the outer periphery of frame 142 and
inner surface 112.    Filter assembly 140 is   sealingly mounted
to the inner surface 112 of container 90 to form a
continuous microbial barrier with the adjacent panel inner
surface 112.
[000107]   Cover 150 is used to cover and enclose container
100.  Cover 150 includes a generally rectangular shaped frame
152 that surrounds a transparent window panel     154.  Cover
150 has  a top surface 155 and a bottom surface 156.     Frame
152 can be formed from materials such as stamped aluminum or
other suitable materials.    Transparent panel   154 formed from
a material that  is transparent such as acrylic or glass.
Transparent panel 154   allows a user to visually see the
contents of container 100.    A pair of blocks   157 are mounted
to opposite sides of frame 152.     Each block 157 has defined
therein a linear groove 158   that extends the length of block
157.   Bail portion 132  of latch 128 mates with groove 158    in
order to retain cover 150 to container 100.      Bail portion
132 is placed into groove 158 and latch 128 is pivoted
downward to a locked position where cover 150     is removable
and sealingly locked to container 100.     An elastomeric seal
 (not shown) is mounted to the cover frame 152.     When the
cover 150 is  installed on container 100,    the elastomeric
seal prevents micro-organisms from entering the interior of
                                28

the cover and container 100 by sealing the gap between the
cover and upper peripheral rim 113 of container 100,    thus
completing an enclosure to keep micro-organisms from
entering the interior where the surgical instruments 180     are
located.
[000108]   A rack or insert tray 160   is used to hold
medical/surgical instruments 180 within container 100 during
sterile processing.   Rack 160 includes a generally
rectangular shaped base 162 with four walls 164    that extend
perpendicularly upward from base 162.     A pair of spaced
apart handles 165  are mounted to opposing walls 164   allowing
a user to lift rack 180.   Apertures 166 are defined in base
162.   Several support members 168 extend upwardly from base
162.
[000109]   Medical/surgical instruments 180   rest on and are
supported by support members 168.     Support members 168 are
dimensioned and shaped so that medical/surgical instruments
180 are retained in a preferred orientation for sterile
processing.
In one embodiment, medical/surgical instruments 180    can be
manual  instruments such as scalpels, forceps and osteo
tomes.   In another embodiment, medical/surgical instruments
180 can be powered instruments    such as rotary handpieces,
drills, or endoscopes.   Reusable medical/surgical
instruments  require cleaning and sterilization prior to re
use to destroy microorganisms that may be present.
Medical/surgical instruments 180 with dead end lumens need
to be oriented with the lumen horizontal or pointing
downward during automated washing and sterile processing
such that liquids  do not accumulate in the lumen and so that
sterilant can enter and exit from the lumen.
[000110]   An electronic sensor assembly or module 200 is
mounted to front panel 102 below window 114.     Electronic
                               29

sensor module 200 contains electronic components and sensors
that measure environmental conditions in container 100.
These components  also determine if required conditions have
been met to insure sterility of the contents of container
100.  Electronic sensor assembly 200 can be mounted to other
container panels  such as back panel   103 side panel 104 or
cover 150.
[000111]   With reference to FIG. 3,   further details of
container 100 and electronic sensor module 200 are
illustrated.   Container 100 further comprises a raised
section 190  that extends upwardly from the base of window
114.  Ramp sections 192 extend between the base of window
114 and raised section 190.    A pair of spaced apart holes
194 are defined in panel  116.    An opening 196 is defined in
transparent panel 116 above raised section 190    and between
holes 194.
[000112]   Electronic sensor module 200 includes a generally
trapezoidal shaped housing 202 that has a front side 204,
rear side 206, top side 208, bottom side 210 and angled
sides 212.   Housing 202 can be formed from any suitable
material such as injection molded plastic, aluminum or
stainless steel.   A pair of threaded studs 220 extend
perpendicularly away from rear side 206.
[000113]   Electronic sensor module 200 is mounted to
container 100 by placing housing 202 above raised section
190 and inserting studs 220 through holes 194.     Washers 224
are placed over studs 220 and fasteners 224 such as a nut
are threaded onto studs 220 securing electronic module 200
to container 100.   Gasket, seals or a curable sealing
material 214 are used between sensor module 200 and
container 100 to prevent micro-organisms    from entering the
interior of the container through mounting holes 194    or
opening 196.    In this position rear side 206 of electronic
                                30

module 200 abuts  transparent panel  116 and extends over
opening 196.   Electronic module 200 can be retrofitted to
various existing types of containers by modifying the
existing containers to include holes 194 and opening 196.
[000114]   A green light emitting diode   (LED) 230, a red LED
232 and a yellow LED 233 are mounted within housing 202 and
are visible through an opening in front side 204.    In another
embodiment, LEDs  are replaced with another visual type of
indicator pane or display.   These alternate embodiments
provide a visual status of the equipment load, the sensor
modules or other items that are helpful visual indicators to
the operators using these systems during disinfection or
sterilization processes.   A display 234 such as a liquid
crystal display is mounted within housing 202 above LEDs
230-233 and is visible through an opening in front     side 204.
LEDs 230-233 and LCD 234 provide visual information to
personnel using container 100.
[000115]   A bar code, UPC code or RFID tag 135   is mounted to
front  side 124.  Bar code or RFID tag 135   can contain
information about electronic module 200 such as the type of
electronic module and/or the contents of container 100.      Bar
code or RFID tag 135 can be optionally located on other
exterior panels of container 100   or on sensor module 200.
[000116]   Referring to FIGS. 4A, 4B and 4C,   further details
of electronic sensor module 200 are illustrated.     A battery
compartment 215 is located on rear side 206.     Battery
compartment 215 contains a battery 216 that is mounted
between terminals 217 and 218.    A cover 219 is  snap fit to
housing 202 covering battery compartment 215.     Battery 216
provides power to electronic module 200.     Connector
terminals 243 and 244 are used to connect to devices
external to electronic module 200.    For example, connector
terminals 244 are connected with battery 216 and can be
                               31

connected to a source of power in order to recharge battery
216.  Connector terminals 243 can be used to transmit and
receive data between electronic module 200 and an external
device.
[000117]   An opening 226 is located in the back side 206 of
housing 202.   Several sensors 240 are coupled to a printed
circuit board 242 that is mounted within housing 202.
Sensors  240 are visible or exposed through opening 226.
Sensors  240 measure environmental characteristics such as
temperature, pressure, humidity and chemical concentration
levels.   When housing 202 is mounted to container 100,
sensors  240 are positioned over opening 196 such that
sensors  240 are exposed to the environmental conditions
within interior cavity 120.   In one embodiment, sensors 240
can extend through opening 196 into interior cavity 120.
[000118]   Other electronic components are mounted to printed
circuit board 242 as seen in FIG. 4C to allow electronic
module to monitor the characteristics of the environment in
container 100.   A processor 250 and memory 252 are mounted
to printed circuit board 242.    A wireless module 254 and
passive components 256 are mounted to printed circuit board
242.  Wireless module 254 allows electronic module 200 to
communicate with other external devices.     These devices
include transceiver heads and computer systems.      In one
embodiment, wireless module 254 can transmit and receive
data and instructions from other external computer systems
and networks.
[000119]   A green light emitting diode   (LED) 230,  a red LED
232 and a yellow LED 233 are mounted to printed circuit
board 242.   Alternately, these three LEDs   can be replaced by
a multi-colored LED assembly to produce one or more
distinctively different colors.    These distinctively
different colors provide information to the user as to the
                               32

status   of the container.  For example red LED 232 can
indicate the container of equipment is non-sterile.      The
yellow LED 233 can indicate the container of equipment is
ready to be sterilized.    The green LED 230 can indicate the
container of equipment has been properly sterilized.       A
display 234 such as a liquid crystal display can be mounted
to printed circuit board 242.     LEDs 230, 232,  233 and LCD
234 provide visual information to personnel using container
100.
III.  Second Container Embodiment
 [000120]   FIG. 5 illustrates a container assembly 300    of a
second embodiment of the present invention.      In FIG. 5,
common reference numbers to like items in FIG. 2 have been
given the same reference number.     Container assembly 300
includes a container 302 that is    generally rectangular in
shape.    Container 302 is similar to container 100;   however,
some features of container 100 have been omitted and other
features have been added.    For example, container 302    does
not include any holes 124 or a filter assembly 140.
 [000121]   Electronic module 200 is mounted to front panel
102.   Electronic sensor module 200 contains electronic
components and sensors   that measure environmental
characteristics within container 302    and determine if
required conditions have been met to insure sterility of the
contents of container 302.
 [000122]    Container 302 further includes four rounded
shoulders 304.    Each of shoulders 304  is located at an
interior corner 306 of container 302    and extends along the
length of corner 306 between bottom panel 106 and rim 113.
A bore 308   is defined in each shoulder 304  and extends into
an internal compartment 310.    A  linear actuator 312  is
mounted in each of compartments 310.     Each linear actuator
                                33

312  is  in communication with electronic module 200 through
an electrical cable 314.
[000123]     A cover 350 is used to cover and enclose container
302.  Cover 350 includes a generally rectangular shaped frame
352  that surrounds a transparent window panel      354.   Cover
350 has   a top surface 355 and a bottom surface 356.        An
elastomeric gasket 357     is mounted to bottom surface 356 and
makes a seal when mated with rim 113 when cover 350        is in a
closed position.     Control buttons 358    and 359 are mounted to
the front top surface of frame       352 and are in communication
with electronic module 200 through wireless communication
means   (not shown).   Control button 358    closes cover 350 and
control button 359 opens cover 350.
[000124]     Four rods 360  are coupled between cover 350     and
linear actuators 312.      Rods 360 have a proximal end 362 and
a distal end 364.     Proximal end 362    is located in
compartment 310 and connected to linear actuator 312.           Rod
360  extends through bore 308     terminating at distal end 364.
Distal end 364 is    removably coupled to frame 352.
Electronic module 200 triggers linear actuator 312 to move
rods 360   and cover 350   in a linear direction toward and away
from container 302.
[000125]     Cover 350 can be attached and detached from rods
360  in order to facilitate loading and unloading of
container 302.     Four quick release pin 372    are inserted
through apertures 374    located in each interior corner of
frame   352.   Quick release pin 372 mates with a bore      (not
shown) in the distal end 364      of rod 360 in order to retain
frame   352 to distal end 364.     Each quick release pin 372 has
one or more ball bearings      (not shown) that are biased
outwardly by an internal spring.        When all four quick
release pins 372    are removed, cover 350 can be removed from
rods 360   allowing access to interior cavity 120.       Medical
                                  34

personal can manually place tray 160    and surgical
instruments   to be sterilized into cavity 120.
 [000126]   In an open position, as shown in FIG. 5, cover 350
is  supported by rods  360 and is  spaced apart from rim 113.
A gap or opening 370   is formed between frame 352   and rim
113.    In the open position, sterilant can enter into and
exit from interior cavity 120 through opening 370 during
sterile processing.
 [000127]   Turning to FIG. 6, cover 350  is shown in a closed
position sealing container 302 and the contents of container
302   (i.e. rack 160 and surgical instruments 180).    After
electronic module 200 determines that the operating
conditions within container 302 during sterile processing
were sufficient to meet or exceed a required set of
operating conditions, electronic module 200 directs linear
actuators 312   to close cover 350  and turns on green LED 230.
The closing and sealing of cover 350    and an "on"  green LED
230 indicates the contents of the container were properly
sterilized and the container properly sealed.     A
continuously "on"   green LED 230 can alternately be a
flashing "on"   green LED 230 so that the discharge rate of
the battery can be slowed in order to extend battery life.
 [000128]   In the closed position, gasket 357 is held against
rim 113   forming a seal between frame 352 and container 302.
The sealed container allows sterile instruments within the
container to be removed from the sterilizer 50 while
maintaining a sterile environment within container 302 after
processing.    When surgical instruments 180 within closed
container 302   are required for a surgical procedure, a user
depresses open button 359 which causes electronic sensor
module 200 to direct actuators    312 to move cover 350  to the
open position.    The user then manually removes quick release
                                35

pins 372  and cover 350    allowing access to interior cavity
120 for removal of the sterilized surgical instruments      180.
[000129]   After cover 350    is opened, the environment within
container assembly 300 may no longer be sterile.       When
electronic sensor module 200 opens cover 350, electronic
sensor module also turns off green LED 230 and turns on red
LED 232.   The illumination of red LED 232 indicates to a
user that the container seal has been broken.       Inferentially
this is  an indication that the contents of the container are
no longer sterile.      If cover 350  is opened and then closed,
red LED 232 will remain lit informing a user that the
contents of the container are no longer sterile.
[000130]   Container assembly 300     further optionally includes
one or more tamper seals 376      (FIG. 6) in addition to tamper
sensors  380  (FIG. 5).    Tamper seals  376 and tamper sensors
380  are used to indicate if container assembly 300 has been
opened during storage causing the sterility of the contents
of container assembly 300 to be compromised.       Tamper seal
376 is  a tape or seal that is mounted between container 302
and cover 350.    Removal or opening of cover 350    causes
tamper seal 376 to be broken indicating to a user the
sterility of the contents of container assembly 300 have
been compromised.
[000131]   Returning to FIG. 5, tamper sensor 380 may
comprise a Hall effect sensor 382      and a magnet 384.  Hall
effect sensor 382   is mounted to the top of shoulder 304
adjacent to bore 308.      Magnet 384  is mounted to the bottom
side of frame 352.     Hall effect sensor is   in communication
with electronic module 200 through a cable 386 mounted
within container 302.      When cover 350  is in the closed
position, magnet 384     is juxtaposed to Hall effect sensor
382.   Hall effect sensor 382    senses the magnetic field
generated by magnet 384     and sends an electrical signal
                                  36

indicating the presence of magnet 384     to electronic sensor
module 200.   Electronic module 200 can keep green LED 230
illuminated indicating to a user that the contents of
container assembly 300   are sterile.    When cover 350 is moved
away from container 302, breaking the sterile barrier
created by the container assembly 300,     Hall effect sensor
382  sends an electrical signal to electronic module 200
indicating a reduced magnetic field generated by magnet 384.
Electronic module then turns off green LED 230 and turns      on
red LED 232.   The illumination of red LED 232 indicates to a
user that the contents of container assembly 300     are no
longer sterile.   In order to extend the battery charge of
battery 216, LEDs can flash providing indications to the
user as described above.
IV. Third Container Embodiment
[000132]   Referring to FIGS. 7A-7D, a container assembly 400
of a third embodiment of the present invention is shown.
With specific reference to FIG. 7A, container assembly 400
comprises a container 402 that     is generally rectangular in
shape and is  defined by a planar front panel 403,    an opposed
planar rear panel 404   and a pair of opposed spaced apart
planar side panels 405 and 406.      Panels 403 and 404 are
oriented orthogonal to panels 405 and 406.      A planar bottom
panel  407 is mounted perpendicular to panels 403-406 and
forms the bottom of container 402.      An interior cavity 420
is  defined within container 402.     Container 402 has outer
surfaces 410  and inner surfaces 412.     An upper peripheral
rim 413 is defined by the upper edges of panels 403-406.
Container 402  can be formed from materials such as stamped
aluminum or other suitable materials.
[000133]   Side panel 406 has an opening 414    that is covered
by a panel  416 that is  transparent to visible light but is
                                37

opaque to infrared    (IR) and/or ultraviolet   (UV) light
frequencies.    Panel 416 prevents external or internal UV
and/or IR light   from passing through panel 416.     Transparent
panel  416 allows a user to visually see the contents within
container 402.    An elastomeric gasket 415 seals panel 416 to
side panel   406.  Gasket 415 and panel 416 are attached to
side panel   406 using an adhesive.
[000134]    Another opening 418 is   defined in side panel 406
extending from just above bottom panel 406 to below opening
414.   Opening 418  is  smaller than opening 414.    Opening 418
is dimensioned to receive a window 421.       Window 421  can be
either transparent or opaque and can be formed from a
plastic material.    A gasket or hermetic seal 422    seals
window 421 to side panel 406.      Gasket 422  and panel 421 are
attached to side panel 406 using an adhesive.
[000135]    A pivoting handle 426 is attached to each of side
panels  405 and 406.    Handle 426 has ends   425 that are
retained to side panels 405 and 406 by circular shaped bands
426.   Two bands  426 are rigidly attached and sealed to side
panel  405.   Two bands 426 are rigidly attached and sealed to
side panel   406.  Ends 425 are received by bands 426 and can
rotate within bands 426.     Handles 424 pivot between a stored
position where handles 424    are adjacent side panels    405, 406
and a carrying position where handles 424 extend
perpendicular to side panels 405,     406.  Side panels   405, 406
further include a pair of opposed L-shaped steps 496 that
are mounted to opposite ends of container 402.       More
particularly, steps 496 extend generally perpendicularly
away from opposed portions of flange 453 and are angled
slightly downwardly.     Steps 496 are used in conjunction with
locking lid latch 446, mounted to the cover 450      to secure
cover 450 to container 402.     Locking lid latch 446 is
rotated by a user downwardly over steps 496 to a locked
                                 38

position where cover 450 is   retained to and locked to
container 402 while compressing cover gasket 456 between
cover 450 and container 402.     This compression inhibits the
entry of microbes into the container.
[000136]    With additional reference to FIG. 7B,  a cover 450
is used to cover and enclose container 402.    Cover 450
includes a generally rectangular shaped panel    452.  Cover
450  can be formed from materials such as stamped aluminum or
other suitable materials.    Two arrays of holes 459 are
defined in and extend through panel    452.  Holes 459 are
located toward each of the ends    of panel 452.  Holes 459
allow sterilant to enter and leave container 402    during
sterilization processing.    An outer peripheral flange 453
extends downwardly from the outer edges of panel 452.      A
rectangular interior wall 454 extends downwardly from panel
452  and is  spaced inwardly from flange 453 along the entire
length of flange 453.    Flange 453 and wall 454 define a U
shaped groove 455 there between.     An elastomeric gasket 456
is mounted in groove 455.    Cover 450  fits over panels 403,
404,  405 and 406 such that rim 413 rests between flange 453
and wall 454   and is in contact with gasket 456.   Gasket 456
forms a seal between cover 450 and container 402.     Wall 454
further defines an interior recess 457 below panel    452.   A
pair of spaced apart opposed L-shaped rails 458    extend
perpendicularly away from the bottom surface of panel 452
into recess 457.    The terminal lips 451 of L-shaped rails
458  face each other.
[000137]    Two filters 440 are mounted in recess 457.    Each
filter 440   is supported by a filter support member 442.
Filter support member 442 has outwardly extending shoulders
443 that extend from each end of filter support member 442.
Shoulders 443 are retained by terminal lips 451    of rails
458.   Filter support member 442   further includes an array of
                                39

apertures 445.     Filters 440  cover holes 459.    Filter 440 and
filter clip 442 are generally rectangular in shape.
[000138]   Filter 440 and filter support member 442 are
formed from a flexible material such that filter 440       and
filter support member 442 can be bent to allow shoulders 443
to slide under the terminal lips 451.       Alternatively, filter
440  can be placed by a user onto filter support 442      and the
combination is inserted along rails      458.  Rails 458  are
dimensioned so that as filter 440      and clip 442  are inserted
into rails   458,  filter 440  is compressed or squeezed against
the inner surface of cover 450.
[000139]   Filter 440   is formed from a microbial barrier
material that is permeable to sterilant.       Filter 440  allows
sterilant to pass from the outside of cover 450,       through
holes 459, through filter 440, through apertures 445 and
into interior cavity 420 where the sterilant contacts
surgical instruments.     Filter 440   also forms a microbial
barrier preventing microorganisms from entering into
container assembly 400    after container assembly 400 has been
processed through a sterilization process.
[000140]   A  locking lid latch 446 is    attached to each of end
of cover 450.     One end of locking lid latch 446 is rotatable
attached to each cover end.      Locking lid latch 446 can be
rotated up and down.     When locking lid latch 446 is    rotated
downward and engaged with L-shaped steps      496, the cover 450
is  removable locked to container 402.      Magnets 448 are
mounted to an interior facing surface of locking lid latch
446 and work with hall effect sensor 480 as described later.
[000141]   An electronic sensor assembly or module 460      is
mounted within container 402.       Electronic sensor module 460
contains electronic components and sensors      that measure the
characteristics of the environment within container 402
during sterilization processing and determine if required
                                  40

conditions have been met to insure sterility of the contents
of container 402.
[000142]    With reference to FIG. 7A, electronic sensor
module 460 has a rectangular shaped printed circuit board
 (PCB) 462.    PCB 462 contains printed circuit lines                      (not
shown) that electrically connect the components of
electronic module 460.            PCB 462   is mounted above and spaced
from bottom panel 407 by two or more insulated spacers or
standoffs 463.        Fasteners      464 such as screws retain PCB 462
and standoffs 463 to bottom panel 407.
[000143]    Sensors      are mounted to PCB 462 to monitor one or
more characteristics of the environment inside container
402.    These sensors including a sensor 472                 that monitors the
concentration of water vapor.              This is sometimes referred to
as a humidity or steam sensor.              A sensor 473 monitors the
fluid   (gas) pressure inside the container.                    A sensor 474
monitors the temperature within the container.                       There is
also a processor 479 and a memory 471.                Also, mounted to the
top side of PCB 462 is         an optical sensor 465 that senses                     the
amount of infrared         (IR) or ultraviolet       (UV) light
transmitted through an optical path length 466 within
container 402.        In one embodiment, optical sensor 465
detects   concentrations       of hydrogen peroxide             gas  (H 2 0 2 ) . In
another embodiment, optical sensor 465 detects
concentrations       of ethylene      oxide gas   (C2 H 4 0)  .    In another
embodiment, optical sensor 465 detects concentrations of
water or water vapor         (H2 0).    In another embodiment, optical
sensor   465 detects      both hydrogen peroxide vapor               (H 2 0 2 ) and
water vapor    (H 2 0) .
[000144]    Optical sensor 465 includes an IR or UV source or
emitter 467    and an IR or UV receiver or detector 468 mounted
to the top side of PCB 462.             Light filters        (not shown) can
be mounted around IR detector 468             and/or light source 467                 to
                                         41

remove any undesired wavelengths.     Because hydrogen peroxide
gas absorbs infrared light at a wavelength of 2.93 microns,
the amount of light at that frequency transmitted through a
known path length 466 containing hydrogen peroxide gas is
proportional   to the concentration of the hydrogen peroxide
gas.    Hydrogen peroxide gas also absorbs ultraviolet light
at wavelengths near 240 nanometers.      The absorption of light
through a gas is described by the Beer-Lambert     law.
[000145]    Semi-circular light concentrators 469 are mounted
to PCB 462.    One light concentrator 469 is positioned around
emitter 467   and another light concentrator is positioned
around detector 468.    Light concentrators 469 reflect light
rays that are not coaxial to detector 468.      An elongated
light   shield 470 is mounted over optical path length 466 and
emitter 467,   detector 468 and both light concentrators 469.
Light shield 470   is attached to PCB 462.    Light shield 470
prevents stray light rays   from leaving optical sensor 465
and entering interior cavity 420.     Light concentrators 469
and shield 470 are formed from a material that is light
reflective such as polished stainless steel.      Light
concentrators 469 and light shield 470     can work together to
reflect emissions from emitter 467 and concentrate those
emissions to increase the energy detected by detector 468.
[000146]    A battery 497 is mounted to PCB 462 and supplies
power to the components of electronic module 460.       Battery
497  can be formed from one or more battery cells to form a
battery pack depending on the voltage and power requirements
of electronic sensor module 460.     In one embodiment, battery
497  is  a rechargeable battery.   In another embodiment,
battery 497   is replaced with a new battery after being
discharged.    Light emitting diodes   (LED) 487 such as green,
red and yellow LEDS are mounted to PCB 462.      LEDS 487
                                42

provide visual information to personnel using container
assembly 400.
[000147]   FIG. 7C illustrates additional components
contained within window 421.    Window 421 in FIG. 7C is
formed from a transparent material such as plastic.     A
hermetically sealed connector 485 is mounted within window
421 and contains several terminals 486 that extend through
connector 485 and are electrically connected to PCB 462.
Hermetic connector 485 is connected with an external
connector 475 and cable 476   (FIG. 7A) in order to transmit
and receive data from container assembly 400.    LEDS 487 on
PCB 462  are viewed by a user through window 421.   A light
shield 477 blocks light generated by LEDS   487 from reaching
optical sensor 465.
[000148]   FIG. 7D illustrates another embodiment of
components contained within window 421.    Window 421 in FIG.
7D is  formed from an opaque material such as plastic.     A
hermetically sealed connector 485 is mounted within window
421 and contains several terminals 486 that extend through
connector 865 and are electrically connected to PCB 462.
Hermetic connector 485 is connected with an external
connector 475 and cable 476   (FIG. 7A) in order to transmit
and receive data from container assembly 400.    In the
embodiment of FIG. 7D, LEDS 487   are not mounted to PCB 462.
LEDS 487  are mounted to the outside of window 421 and are
connected to PCB 462 by wires or terminals 478   that extend
through window 421.   Window 412  is sealingly mounted to
container wall 406 with a seal, gasket or curable sealing
material 422.
[000149]   Returning to FIG. 7A, a hall effect sensor 480    is
mounted to the interior surface 412 of side wall 406 below
rim 413 and another hall effect sensor 480   is mounted to the
interior surface 412 of side wall 405 below rim 413.      Hall
                               43

effect sensors 480   are connected to PCB 462 by wires 481.
When cover 450 is placed over container 402, magnets 448       are
juxtaposed to Hall effect sensors 480.      The Hall effect
sensors  480  sense the magnetic field generated by magnets
448 and output an electrical signal     indicating the presence
of a detected magnetic field.     When latch 446 is opened to
remove cover 450   from container 402, Hall effect sensors     480
sense the absence of a magnetic field and output an
electrical signal indicating no detected magnetic field.
Electronic sensor module 460   can use signals from hall
effect sensor 480   to monitor if latches 446 have been
properly maintained or tampered with after sterilization.
Alternately, a mechanical   item like a one way locking zip
strip  (not shown) that prevents locking lid latch 446 from
decoupling from L-shaped step 496 can serve as a way to
visually indicate that the locking lid latch 446 has been
maintained in the correct position.      These mechanical one
way locking zip strips are typically broken and removed so
the locking lid latch 446 can be unlatched from L-shaped
step 496.
[000150]   A  false bottom plate   490 is mounted over
electronic module 460   and bottom panel 407.     False bottom
plate  490 is  rectangular in shape and has   a series of holes
491 extending through plate 490.      False bottom plate 490   is
supported above electronic module 460 by standoffs 492.
Standoffs 492   rest on bottom panel 407.    Fasteners  494
retain plate 490   to bottom panel 407.    Fasteners 494  such as
screws extend through false bottom plate     490,  standoffs 492
and are threaded into bottom panel 407.      Holes 491 allow
sterilant to flow under false bottom plate 490      and into
electronic sensor module 460.     This allows the sensors in
the module to take measurements     of the characteristics of
the environment internal to container 400.
                                44

[000151]  During use, a rack or tray 160    (FIG. 2) containing
medical/surgical instruments 180   (FIG. 2) in a desired
orientation to be sterilized can be placed within container
402.  Rack 160 is placed and rests on plate 490.     Electronic
module and sensors 460 are hidden under plate 490.     After
tray 160 is placed within container 402, cover 450 is placed
over container 402 and locking lid latches 496 are moved to
the locked position, locking and sealing the cover 450 to
container 402.   A connector 475 and cable 476 are attached
to connector 485 and memory 471 is programmed with validated
sterilization process measurement   (VSPM).   After
programming, container assembly 400 is ready for processing
through a sterilization process cycle.
V. Fourth Container Embodiment
[000152]  FIG. 8 depicts a container assembly 500 of a
fourth embodiment of the present invention.     Container
assembly 500 comprises a container 502 that is generally
rectangular in shape and is defined by a planar front panel
503, an opposed planar rear panel 504 and a pair of opposed
spaced apart planar side panels 505 and 506.     Panels 503 and
504 are oriented orthogonal to panels 505 and 506.     A planar
bottom panel 507 is mounted perpendicular to panels 503,
504, 505 and 506 and forms the bottom of container 502.      An
interior cavity 520 is defined within container 502.
Container 502 has outer surfaces 510 and inner surfaces 512.
An upper peripheral rim 513 is defined by the upper edges of
panels 503-506.   Container 502 can be formed from materials
such as stamped aluminum or other suitable materials.
[000153]  Side panel 506 has a rectangular shaped opening
514 that is covered by a panel 516 that is transparent to
visible light but is opaque to IR and/or UV light
frequencies.   Panel 516 prevents IR and/or UV light internal
                               45

or external to container 502     from passing through panel    516.
Transparent panel 516 allows a user to visually see the
contents within container 502.       An elastomeric gasket 515
seals panel 516 to side panel 506.       Gasket 515 and panel 516
are attached to side panel 506 using an adhesive or suitable
mechanical   fasteners   (not shown).   Another rectangular
shaped opening 518    is defined in side panel 506 above
opening 514   and below rim 513.     Opening 518 is dimensioned
to receive a hermetically sealed switch 521.       Several
mounting blocks    519 are attached to the interior surface 512
of panel 506 and extending into cavity 520.       Two mounting
blocks  519 are positioned below rim 513 and two mounting
blocks  519 are positioned at the bottom of panel 506.
[000154]   A pivoting handle 524     is attached to each of side
panels  505 and 506.    Handle 524 has ends   525 that are
retained on side panels 505 and 506 by circular shaped bands
526.   Two bands   526 are welded to side panel 505 and two
bands  526 are welded to side panel 506.      Ends 525 are
received by bands 526 and can rotate within bands 526.
Handles 524 pivot between a stored position where handles
524  are adjacent side panels 505,     506 and a carrying
position where handles 524 extend perpendicular to side
panels  505,  506.
[000155]   Cover 550 is used to cover and enclose container
502.  Cover 550 includes a generally rectangular shaped panel
552.   Cover 550 can be formed from materials such as stamped
aluminum or other suitable materials.       An array of holes 559
are defined in and extend through panel 552.       Holes 559
allow sterilant to enter and leave container 502      during
sterilization processing.      An outer peripheral flange 553
extends downwardly from the outer edges of panel 552.        An
inner wall 554 extends downwardly from panel 552      and is
spaced inwardly from flange 553.       Flange 553 and flange 554
                                  46

define a U-shaped groove 555 there between.       An elastomeric
gasket 556 is mounted in groove 555.      Cover 550  fits over
panels  503-506 such that rim 513 rests between flanges 553
and wall 554  and is in contact with gasket 556.      Gasket 556
forms a seal between cover 550 and container 502.       Four
generally C-shaped retainer clips 558     extend downward from
the bottom surface of panel 552.      Clips 558  are positioned
toward the center of panel 552 around the outermost holes
559.
[000156]   A onetime use or multi-use filter 540     is mounted
over holes 559.   Filter 540  is   supported by a filter support
member 542.   Filter support member 542    is  retained to panel
552 by retainer clips  558.   Filter support member 542    is
formed from a flexible material such that the ends of
support member 542  can be bent under retainer clips     558  in
order to retain filter 540   and support member 542 to
retainer clips 558.   Filter 540    covers holes 559.   Support
member 542 and retainer clips 558     compress filter 540
against the bottom side of panel 552     over holes 559.   Filter
540  is formed from a microbial barrier material that is
permeable to sterilant.   Filter 540 allows sterilant to pass
from the outside of container 502     through holes 559,  through
filter 540 and into interior cavity 520 where the sterilant
contacts surgical instruments.      Filter 540  also forms a
microbial barrier preventing microorganisms from entering
into container assembly 500   after container assembly 500 has
been processed through a sterilization process.
[000157]   Container assembly 500    further comprises a lift
off hinge 545.   Lift off hinge 545 has a C-shaped flange 546
extending away from rim 513 of side panel 505 and another C
shaped flange 547  extending away from one end of cover 550.
Flanges 546 and 547 mate with each other to form hinge 545.
Flanges 546 and 547 are dimensioned such that when cover 550
                                47

is  rotated with flanges 546 and 547    in engagement with each
other toward a closed position, one end of cover 550     is
retained to container 502.
[000158]   A pivoting latch lock 548    is mounted to the other
end of cover 550.   Latch lock 548   is  rotated by a user
downwardly over switch 521   to a locked position where cover
550  is retained to and locked to container 502.     The
movement of latch lock 548   against switch 521 toggles switch
521  from an open circuit to a closed circuit.     Container
assembly 500  is unlocked and opened by a user moving latch
lock 548  away from switch 521 and rotating cover 550    about
hinge 545.   The movement of latch lock 548    away from switch
521  toggles switch 521  from a closed circuit to an open
circuit.
[000159]   An electronic sensor assembly or module 560     is
mounted within container 502.     Electronic module 560
contains electronic components and sensors     that measure the
characteristics of the environment within container 502
during sterilization processing and determine if required
conditions have been met to insure sterility of the contents
of container 502.
[000160]   Electronic sensor module 560 has    a rectangular
shaped printed circuit board    (PCB) 562.   PCB 562 contains
printed circuit lines   (not shown) that electrically
connected the components of electronic sensor module 560.
Various electronic components and sensors     are mounted to PCB
562  to allow electronic module 560 to monitor the
environment inside container 502.     A processor 570, memory
571 water vapor or steam sensor 572 and isolated temperature
sensor 574 are mounted to a top side of PCB 562.      A
diaphragm type pressure sensor 573 and/or a capacitance
manometer are mounted within interior cavity 520     and is
connected to PCB 562 via a cable 575.
                                48

 [000161]   Also, mounted to PCB 562 is          an optical sensor 565
that senses   the amount of IR or UV light transmitted through
an optical path length 566 within container 502.                In one
embodiment, optical sensor 565 detects concentrations of
hydrogen peroxide   gas  (H 2 0 2 )  .   In another embodiment, optical
sensor 565 detects concentrations of water             (H2 0).
 [000162]   Optical sensor 565 includes a light             source or
emitter 567   and light receiver or detector 568 mounted to
PCB 562.    Light filters    (not shown) can be mounted around
detector 568   to remove any undesired wavelengths.              Semi
circular light concentrators 569 are mounted to PCB 562.
These concentrators can have parabolic, elliptical, or other
shapes   that concentrate the light on the photo detector that
faces the emitter 567.    One light concentrator 569 is
positioned around emitter 567 and another IR light
concentrator is positioned around detector 568.
 [000163]   Replaceable and/or rechargeable batteries 580 are
received within openings 581           of a battery compartment 582.
Battery compartment 582     is mounted to a backside of PCB 562.
Batteries 580   supply power to the components of electronic
module 560 through printed circuit lines             (not shown) within
PCB 562. Batteries 580    can be individual cells            or packaged
together into a battery pack arrangement.
 [000164]   Light emitting diodes          (LEDS) 584  such as green,
red and yellow LEDS are mounted to the top side of PCB 562.
A  transparent cover 585 is mounted to PCB 562 over LEDS               584.
LEDS 584   are viewed by a user through cover 585 and window
516.   LEDS  584 provide visual information to personnel using
container assembly 500.       A     connector 594   is mounted to PCB
562  and extends through a bottom portion of battery
compartment 582.    Connector 594          is used to connect to an
external connector and cable in order for electronic sensor
                                       49

module 560 to transmit and receive data or instructions from
external systems   and devices.
[000165]   Battery compartment 582    and a portion of PCB 562
are contained within an insulative housing 586.       Housing 586
is  formed from an insulating material such as plastic.
Housing 586 is generally rectangular in shape      includes an
interior chamber 587 and a cover 588.      Mounting flanges  589
extend perpendicularly away from housing 586 and parallel to
side panel  506.   Battery compartment 582 and a portion of
PCB 562  are mounted within chamber 587.      Cover 588 is
rotated to a closed position over battery compartment 582.
Switch 521  is also in communication with PCB 562     through a
wire 588.
[000166]   Housing 586 is mounted to the interior surface 512
of panel 506.    Housing 586 is spaced from bottom panel 507
by an insulated spacer or standoff 590.       Fasteners 591 such
as screws extend through mounting flanges      589 and are
threaded into mounting blocks 519.
[000167]   During use,  a rack or tray 160    (FIG. 2) containing
medical/surgical instruments 180     (FIG. 2)  in a desired
orientation to be sterilized are placed within container
502.   Rack 160 is placed onto and rests on bottom panel     507.
[000168]   An external cable   (not shown) is   attached to
connector 594  in order to store in memory 571 a validated
sterilization process measurement     (VSPM).   After instruments
are placed in container 502,    cover 550  is placed over
container 502  engaging hinge 545 and latch lock 548     is moved
into engagement with switch 521    to a locked position,
locking the cover 550   to container 502.     Container assembly
500  is now ready for processing through a sterilization
process cycle.
                                50

VI. Fifth Container Embodiment
[000169]   Referring to FIG. 9A, a container assembly 600     of
a fifth embodiment of the present invention is     shown.
Container assembly 600 includes a version of container 402.
The version of container 402   of FIG. 9A is  the same as the
previously described container 402 of FIG. 7A except that
opening 418  is not present.   Also magnets 624 are mounted to
interior facing vertical side surfaces of side panels 405
and 406 slightly below rim 413.
[000170]   With additional reference to FIG.   9B,  cover 650 is
used to cover and enclose container 402. Cover 650     includes
a generally rectangular shaped panel 652.     Cover 650 can be
formed from materials such as stamped aluminum or other
suitable materials.   Cover 650 has an inner surface 651,     an
outer surface 654 and opposed ends   653.   An array of holes
655 are defined in and extend through panel    652.   Holes 655
allow sterilant to enter and leave container 402     during
sterilization processing.    An outer peripheral wall 656
extends downwardly from the outer edges of panel     652.
Another rectangular wall 657 extends downwardly from panel
652 and is  spaced inwardly from wall 656 along the entire
length of wall 656.   Walls 656 and 657 define a U-shaped
groove 658 there between.    An elastomeric gasket   659 is
mounted in groove 658.
[000171]   Cover 650 fits over panels  403,  404,  405 and 406
such that rim 413 rests between walls 656    and 657 and is   in
contact with an elastomeric gasket 659.     Gasket 659  forms a
seal between cover 650 and container 402.
[000172]   Cover 650 further includes an opening 648 defined
in one end 653.   Opening 648 is dimensioned to receive a
window 621.   Window 461 is  transparent and formed from a
plastic material.   A hermetic seal  622 seals window 621 to
                                51

end 653.   Window 621 and hermetic seal    622 are attached to
end 653 using an adhesive.
[000173]   Side panels  405, 406 further include a pair of
opposed L-shaped steps 496 that are mounted to opposite ends
of container 402.    More particularly, steps 496 extend
generally perpendicularly away from side panels 405,       406 and
are angled slightly downwardly with an upwardly arc shape.
Steps  496 are used in conjunction with locking lid latch
646, mounted to the cover 650 to secure cover 650 to
container 402.    Locking lid latch 646 is rotated by a user
downwardly over steps 496 to a locked position where cover
650 is  retained to and locked to container 402 while
compressing cover gasket 659 between cover 650      and container
402  creating a seal.  A locking lid latch 646 is    attached to
each of end of cover 650.    One end of locking lid latch 646
is  rotatable attached to each cover end.      Locking lid latch
646 can be rotated up and down.     When locking lid latch 646
is  rotated downward and engaged with L-shaped steps 496,      the
cover 650 is   locked to container 402.    Magnets 686 are
mounted to an interior facing surface of locking lid latch
646 and work with hall effect sensor 680 as described later.
[000174]   A  single or multi-use filter 640 is mounted to the
bottom surface 651 of cover 650    over holes 655.     Filter 640
is  supported by a filter support member 642 that extends the
length of filter 640.    Filter support member 642 includes an
array of apertures   643 and an opposed pair of shoulders 644
that extend away from ends   of filter support member 642.      A
pair of spaced apart C-shaped clips    645   (FIG. 9B)  extend
away from bottom surface 651.     When filter 640   and filter
support member 642 are mounted to the bottom side       651 of
cover 650,   a portion of clips  645 extend over shoulders 644
of filter support member 642 thereby retaining filter 640 to
cover 650.    Filter 640 covers holes 655.     Filter support
                                52

holds the filter 640 to the cover so that all material
entering through holes 655 must pass through the filter.
[000175]   Filter 640 and filter support member 642 are
formed from a flexible material such that filter 640 and
filter support member 642 can be bent to allow shoulders 644
to slide under clips   644.   Filter 640 is  formed from a
microbial barrier material that is permeable to sterilant.
Filter 640 allows sterilant to pass from the outside of
cover 650,  through holes   655,  through filter 640,  apertures
643 and into interior cavity 420 where the sterilant
contacts surgical instruments.      Filter 640 also forms a
microbial barrier preventing microorganisms from entering
into container assembly 600 after container assembly 600 has
been processed through a sterilization process.
[000176]   Cover 650 further includes a housing 630.      Housing
630 has  a generally rectangular shape with a U-shaped cross
section. Housing 630 can be formed from materials such as
stamped aluminum or other suitable materials.      Housing 630
comprises a bottom wall    631 and side walls 632.    Side walls
632 are spaced apart by bottom wall 631 and are oriented
perpendicular to bottom wall     631.  Flanges 633 extend
perpendicularly away from a distal end of each side wall
632.  Mounting holes 635 extend through flanges     633  at
opposite ends of housing 630.      Bottom wall 631 and side
walls 632 define a cavity or enclosure 638 within housing
630.  An array of holes    634 are defined in bottom wall 631
and side walls  632.   Holes 634 allow sterilant to enter and
leave cavity 638.    Housing 630   is mounted to the inner
surface 651  of panel  652 adjacent end 653   and spaced
slightly from wall   657 using fasteners   636 such as screws.
Fasteners  636 extend through mounting holes    635 and are
threaded into inner surface 651.
                                 53

[000177]    An electronic sensor assembly or module 660 is
mounted within housing 630     that is retained to cover 650.
Electronic sensor module 660 as well as the below described
modules 760    and 850 contains components that perform the
same general functions as module 560.
[000178]    With reference to FIG. 9A, electronic sensor
module 660 has a rectangular shaped printed circuit board
 (PCB) 662.    PCB 662 contains printed circuit lines      (not
shown) that electrically connect the components of
electronic module 660.      PCB 662   is mounted and contained
within housing cavity 638.      An insulated spacer 618     is
mounted over PCB 662 and is     located between cover inner
surface 651    and PCB 662.
[000179]    Various electronic components and sensors       are
mounted to PCB 662 to allow electronic sensor module 660          to
monitor operating conditions within container 402.          A
processor   670, memory 671,   humidity or steam sensor 672,
pressure sensor 673 and isolated temperature sensor 674 are
mounted to a top side of PCB     662.    Mounted to a bottom side
of PCB 662    is an optical sensor 665 that     senses the amount
of IR and/or UV light transmitted through an optical path
length 666 within cavity 638.        In one embodiment, optical
sensor 665 detects concentrations of hydrogen peroxide gas
 (H 2 0 2 )
[000180]    Optical sensor 665 includes a light      source or
emitter 667    and a light receiver or detector 668 mounted to
the bottom side of PCB 662.      Light emitter 667 generates
either IR or UV light.      Light filters    (not shown) can be
mounted around emitter 667     or detector 668 to remove any
undesired wavelengths.
[000181]    A  rechargeable battery 697    is mounted to the
bottom side of PCB    662 and supplies power to the components
of electronic module 660 through printed circuit lines          (not
                                  54

shown) within PCB 662.      Light emitting diodes     (LED) 687  such
as green, red and yellow LEDS are mounted to one end of PCB
662.   LEDS  687 provide visual information to personnel using
container assembly 600.      LEDS  687 within cover 650 are
viewed by a user through window 621.
[000182]    A hermetic connector 685 is mounted within window
621 and extends between the outside of cover 650 to inside
cover 650.   Hermetic connector 685 contains several terminals
that are electrically connected to PCB       662.   Hermetic
connector 685 can be connected with an external connector
610 and cable 612 in order to transmit and receive data from
container assembly 600.      Hermetic connector 685 allows
communication with electronic sensor module 660 when
container assembly 600 is     in a sealed state.
[000183]    With additional reference to FIG.      9B,  Hall effect
sensors  680  are mounted to an interior portion of wall 657
at each of ends   653.    Hall effect sensors     680  are connected
to PCB 662 by wires    681.   When cover 650    is placed over
container 402, magnets 624     are juxtaposed to Hall effect
sensors  680.   The Hall effect sensors     680  sense the magnetic
field generated by magnets 624 and output an electrical
signal  to processor   670 indicating the presence of a
detected magnetic field.      When cover 650    is removed from
container 402,   Hall effect sensors     680 sense the absence of
a magnetic field and output an electrical signal to
processor   670 indicating no detected magnetic field.
[000184]    During use,  a rack or tray 160     (FIG. 2) containing
medical/surgical instruments 180       (FIG. 2)  in a desired
orientation to be sterilized are placed within container
402.   Rack 160 is placed and rests on bottom panel        407.
After tray 160 is placed within container 402,         cover 650  is
placed over container 402 and locking lid latches 496 are
moved to the locked position over steps       646, locking the
                                  55

cover 650 to container 402.     External   connector 610   and
cable 612 are attached to hermetic connector 685 and memory
671 is  loaded with validated sterilization process
measurement   (VSPM).   After programming, container assembly
600 is  ready for processing through a sterilization process
cycle.
VII. Sixth Container Embodiment
[000185]   Referring to FIG. 10,    a container assembly 700    of
a sixth embodiment of the present invention is       shown.
Container assembly 700    comprises a container 402.      Container
402, filters   440 and cover 450 of FIG. 10    are the same as
the previously described container 402,      filters  440  and
cover 450 of FIG. 7A except that opening 418 has been
omitted from container 402.
[000186]   Container assembly 700    includes a rack or tray 720
that contains an electronic sensor assembly or module 760.
Tray 720  can be formed from suitable materials such as
stainless steel or aluminum.      Tray 720  comprises a generally
planar rectangular shaped base 722 that is perforated with
an array of holes 726.     Base 722 has  an upper surface 723
and a bottom surface 724.     A peripheral flange 728 extends
perpendicularly downward from the edges of base 722        and
encircles base 722.     Flange 728  and base 722 define a cavity
730 under base 722.     Holes 726 allow sterilant to enter and
leave cavity 730.
[000187]   Tray 720   is used to hold medical/surgical
instruments  180 within container 402 during sterile
processing.    Tray 720  includes a pair of spaced apart
handles 732  that are mounted to opposite ends of base 722.
Handles 732  allow a user to grasp and lift tray 720.
Handles 732  include a pair of vertical rods 734      attached to
base 722  and a horizontal grasping bar 736 that extends
between rods 734.
                                 56

[000188]   Several support members 738   are mounted to and
extend upwardly from base 722.     Medical/surgical instruments
180 rest on and are supported by support members 738.
Support members 738 are dimensioned and shaped so that
medical/surgical instruments 180    are held and retained in a
preferred orientation for sterile processing.      It is
important for some medical/surgical instruments 180      to be
oriented in certain geometric orientations during sterile
processing such that  sterilant can readily enter and exit
from the surgical instruments.
[000189]   A bottom plate 714  is mounted to the bottom
surface 724  of base 722  enclosing cavity 730.    Plate 714 has
a top surface 716 and a bottom surface 718.      Four spacers  or
standoffs 706 are located at the corners of plate 714.
Spacers  706 position plate 714 a fixed distance from base
722.   Fasteners 708 such as screws extend through the
corners of plate 714,  spacers 706 and are threaded into base
722  thereby retaining plate 714   to base 722.
[000190]   An electronic sensor module 760   is mounted within
cavity 730.   More specifically, module 760   is mounted to the
top side 716 of plate 714.
[000191]   Electronic sensor module 760 has   a rectangular
shaped printed circuit board    (PCB) 762.  PCB 762  contains
printed circuit lines   (not shown) that electrically connect
the components of electronic module 760.     PCB 762 is mounted
to side 716 of plate  714.
[000192]   Various electronic components and sensors     are
mounted to PCB 762  to allow electronic module 760 to monitor
operating conditions within container 402.      A processor 770,
memory 771 humidity or steam sensor 772, pressure sensor 773
and isolated temperature sensor 774 are mounted to a top
side of PCB 762.
                                57

[000193]    Also, mounted to the top side of PCB 762          is an
optical sensor 765 that senses the amount of IR and/or UV
light transmitted through an optical path length 766 within
cavity 730.     In one embodiment, optical sensor 765 detects
concentrations of hydrogen peroxide gas       (H2 0 2 ).
[000194]    Optical sensor 765 includes a light          source or
emitter 767    and a light receiver or detector 768 mounted to
the top side of PCB 762.      Light source 767     generates IR or
UV light.     Light filters  (not shown) can be mounted around
detector 768    to remove any undesired wavelengths.
[000195]    A  replaceable or rechargeable battery 797         is
mounted to the top side of PCB 762 and supplies power to the
components of electronic module 760 through printed circuit
lines   (not shown) within PCB 762.     Light emitting diodes
 (LEDS) 787   such as green, red and yellow LEDS are mounted to
one end of PCB 762.     LEDS  787 provide visual information to
personnel using container assembly 700.        When tray 720 is
located within container 402,      LEDS 787 are visible by a user
through transparent panel     416.
[000196]    A  connector 785 is mounted to the other end of PCB
762.   Connector 785 can be attached to an external connector
710  and cable 712   in order to transmit and receive data from
electronic module 760.      Connector 785 is used to load memory
771 with a validated sterilization process measurement
 (VSPM).
[000197]    Tray 720  is programmed with VSPM.         External
connector 710    is attached to connector 785.         The VSPM are
downloaded to memory 771 from an external source.             Because
each tray 720    is designed to accommodate specific
medical/surgical instruments 180,      tray 720    only needs to be
programmed with VSPM once.      VSPM are stored within memory
771  for use during subsequent sterilization processing
cycles.
                                  58

[000198]   Tray 720  containing medical/surgical instruments
180 in a desired orientation to be sterilized are placed
within container 402.    Tray 720  is placed and rests  on
bottom panel 407.    After tray 720  is placed within container
402,  cover 450 is placed over container 402   and locking lid
latches  446 are moved to the locked position over steps     496,
locking and sealing the cover 450    to container 402.
[000199]   A lockout tag or breakable seal 792   is attached
between locking lid latch 496 and steps 446.     Ends of tag
792  extend through an opening 444   in steps 446 and through
latch 496 and are mated to form a continuous loop.      Tag 792
indicates to a user if any tampering has occurred within
container assembly 700   or if the sterile barrier within
container assembly 700 has been compromised after sterile
processing.   Tag 792  is only useable once and is cut in
order to gain access to the contents of container assembly
700.     After lockout tag 792 is   attached, container
assembly 700  is ready for processing through a sterilization
process cycle.
VIII.  Seventh Container Embodiment
[000200]   Referring to FIG. 11A, a container assembly 800     of
a seventh embodiment of the present invention is shown.
Container assembly 800   comprises a container 802 that is
generally rectangular in shape and is    defined by a planar
front panel 803,   an opposed planar rear panel  804 and a pair
of opposed spaced apart planar side panels 805    and 806.
Panels  803 and 804 are oriented orthogonal to panels 805     and
806.   A planar bottom panel 807   is mounted perpendicular to
panels  803, 804,  805 and 806 and forms the bottom of
container 802.    An interior cavity 820 is defined within
container 802.    Container 802 has outer surfaces 810   and
inner surfaces 812.    An upper peripheral rim 813 is defined
                                59

by the upper edges of panels 803-806.    Container 802   can be
formed from materials such as stamped aluminum or other
suitable materials.
[000201]   Side panel 806 has an opening 814 that is   covered
by a panel  816 that is transparent to visible light but is
opaque to IR and UV light  frequencies.    Panel 816 prevents
IR and UV light  from entering into interior cavity 820.
Transparent panel 816 allows a user to visually see contents
within container 802.   An elastomeric gasket 815 seals panel
816 to the outside surface of side panel    806.  Gasket 815
and panel  816 are attached to side panel   806 using an
adhesive.
[000202]   Container 802 further includes a generally U
shaped cutout 830  that is located at the bottom of side
panel  806 below opening 814.   Cutout 830  is defined by a
horizontal shelf 832 that extends perpendicularly from side
panel  806 into cavity 820 and a U-shaped wall 834 that
extends perpendicularly downward from shelf 832    and
terminates at bottom panel 807.    U-shaped wall 834 has a
center section 835 and two diametrically opposed outer
sections 836.
[000203]   Diametrically opposed windows   837 are defined in
each of outer sections 836.   Windows 837 are separated from
each other by a portion of interior cavity 820.     Windows 837
are formed from a transparent material such as plastic and
are attached to outer sections 836 by an adhesive.
[000204]   A hermetic connector 838 is mounted toward the
center of center section 835.    Hermetic connector 838
contains several  terminals that extend through side panel
838 into interior cavity 820.    Hermetic connector 838 allows
communication with electronic components within container
802.  A latch lock receiver 839 is mounted toward the center
of side panel 806 below rim 813.
                               60

[000205]   Cover 550 is  generally the same as previously
described in FIG. 8, except that a magnet 840 has been added
to an interior face of pivoting latch lock 548.     Holes 559
allow sterilant to enter and leave container 802 during
sterilization processing.    Gasket 556 forms a seal between
cover 550 and container 802.     Disposable filter 540  is
mounted over holes 559.    Filter 540  is supported by a filter
support member 542.    Filter support member is retained to
panel  552 by retainer clips 558.    Filter 540 covers holes
559.
[000206]   Support member 542  and retainer clips 558   compress
filter 540 against the bottom side of panel 552    over holes
559.   Filter 540  is formed from a microbial barrier material
that is permeable to sterilant.     Filter 540 allows sterilant
to pass from the outside of cover 550    through holes 559,
through filter 540   and into interior cavity 820 where the
sterilant can contact surgical instruments.     Filter 540 also
forms a microbial barrier preventing microorganisms from
entering into container assembly 800    after container
assembly 800 has been processed through a sterilization
process.
[000207]   Container assembly 800   further comprises a lift
off hinge 545.    Lift off hinge 545 has a C-shaped flange 846
extending from rim 813   of side panel 805 and another C
shaped flange 547   extending from one end of cover 550.
Flanges 846 and 547 mate with each other to form hinge 545.
Flanges 846 and 547 are dimensioned such that when cover 550
is  rotated with flanges 846 and 547   in engagement with each
other toward a closed position, one end of cover 550     is
retained to container 802.
[000208]   A pivoting latch lock 548   is mounted to the other
end of cover 550.    Latch lock 548  can be rotated by a user
downwardly to a position where latch lock 548 mates with
                                61

latch lock receiver    839 as shown in FIG.    11C.   When latch
lock 548  is  fully engaged with latch lock receiver 839,
cover 550 is   sealingly locked to container 802.        Cover 550
is removed from container 802 by unlatching latch lock 548
from latch lock receiver     839.
[000209]   A  fixed sensor module 850    is mounted within
container 502.     The electronic components    of fixed sensor
module 850 use a relatively low amount of power.
[000210]   Fixed sensor module 850 has     a rectangular shaped
printed circuit board     (PCB) 852.   PCB 852  contains printed
circuit lines    (not shown) that electrically connect the
components of electronic sensor module 850.         A Hall effect
sensor 854,   processor 870,   memory 871,  humidity or steam
sensor 872,   pressure sensor 873    and isolated temperature
sensor 874 are mounted to a front side of PCB 852.
[000211]   A  replaceable and/or rechargeable battery 855        is
mounted to a rear side of PCB 852.       In one embodiment,
because the components mounted to PCB 852       consume a
relatively small amount of power, battery 855        is watch
battery.   Battery 855   supplies power to the components of
electronic sensor module 850.
[000212]   Light emitting diodes     (LEDS) 856 such as green,
red and yellow LEDS are mounted to the front side of PCB
852.  A transparent cover 857 is mounted to PCB 852         over
LEDS 856.    LEDS  856 within container 802 are viewed by a
user through cover 857     and transparent panel    816.   LEDS  856
provide visual information to personnel using container
assembly 800.
[000213]   PCB 852   is mounted and contained within an
enclosure 860.     Enclosure 860 is   formed from an electrically
insulating material such as plastic.       Enclosure 860 has two
generally rectangular shaped sections, an upper section 862
and a lower section 863.      Upper section 862 defines a
                                  62

receptacle 864 and lower section 863 defines a receptacle
865.   PCB 852 is mounted to enclosure 860  such that end
sections of PCB 852 are contained within receptacles 864    and
865.
[000214]   Enclosure 860 with PCB 852  is mounted within
interior cavity 820.   Enclosure 860 rests  on shelf 832 and
is  attached to the interior surface 812 of panel 806.
Fasteners  866 such as screws attach enclosure 860 to
interior surface 512.   PCB 852  is further attached to and in
communication with hermetic connector 838 via terminals    879
that extend from PCB 852 and connect with hermetic connector
838.
[000215]   A removable optical sensor assembly or module 900
is  connectable and removable from container 502.   Removable
optical sensor module 900 contains electronic components
that consume relatively larger amounts of power than the
electronic components  of fixed sensor module 850.   The
electronic components used in removable optical sensor
module 900 are also higher in cost than the electronic
components used in fixed sensor module 850.    Removable
optical sensor module 900 measures one or more
characteristics of the environment within container 802
during sterilization processing.
[000216]   With reference to FIGS. 11A, 11B and 11C removable
optical sensor module 900 comprises a generally U-shaped
housing 902  and at least one optical sensor 950.   Housing
902 is  formed from an electrically insulating material such
as plastic.   Housing 902 includes a generally U-shaped outer
wall 904 and a U-shaped inner wall 910.    A hollow cavity 920
is  defined between outer wall 904 and inner wall  910.   Outer
wall 904 has  a center section 905 and end sections 906 that
extend perpendicularly away from opposite ends   of center
                               63

section 905.   A rectangular shaped opening 908     is defined
toward the top of center section 905.
[000217]   Inner wall 910 has a center section 912 and end
sections  913 that extend perpendicularly away from opposite
ends of center section 912.    A   step 914 extends
perpendicularly away from a distal end of each end section
913.   Steps 914 are parallel to center section 912.      A
rectangular shaped transparent window 916     is located in each
of outer sections 913.   Windows 916 are diametrically
opposed to each other.   A connector passage 918 is defined
in center section 912.   Connector passage 918 allows a
connector attached to sensor 950 to extend through passage
918.   Fasteners 919 such as screws are used to retain inner
wall 910 to outer wall 904.
[000218]   Optical sensor module 900    is mounted in and
received by cutout 830  of container 802 as shown in FIG.
11C.   A retaining clip 924  is mounted in opening 908.     When
optical sensor module 900   is placed and slid in a horizontal
direction into cutout 830,   retaining clip 924 engages and
mates with a retaining tab 925 on container 802.       Retaining
tab  925 extends downwardly from the bottom of shelf 832
towards cutout 830.   Retaining clip 924 and tab 925     retain
optical sensor module 900 to container 802.      Optical sensor
module 900  is removed from container 802 by a user pulling
retaining clip 924 away from side panel     806 thereby
releasing retaining clip 924 from engagement with retaining
tab  925.  Optical sensor module 900 can then be slid in a
horizontal direction away from side panel 806.
[000219]   Optical sensor 950 is mounted to housing 902
within cavity 920.   Optical sensor 950 is mounted between
outer wall 904 and inner wall 910.      Optical sensor 950
senses  the amount of IR or UV light transmitted through an
optical path length 966   (FIG. 11B) within container 802.
                                64

Optical sensor 950 detects concentrations of gases such as
hydrogen peroxide   gas   (H 2 0 2 )  or ethylene   oxide gas  (C2 H 4 0).
[000220]    Optical sensor 950 has          a printed circuit board
 (PCB) 952.   An IR and/or UV light source or emitter 967 and
a light receiver or detector 968 is mounted to one side of
PCB  952.   Light filters     (not shown) can be mounted around
light  source 968  to remove any undesired wavelengths.
[000221]    A connector 958       is mounted to one side of PCB 952.
Connector 958 extends through connector passage 918              (FIG.
11B).   Connector 958 mates with connector 838 of container
802 when housing 902    is inserted into cutout 830 and
attached to container 802.            When attached, connectors      958
and 838   allow for communication to occur between optical
sensor 950 and fixed sensor module 850.              In an optional
embodiment, optical sensor 950            includes a wireless
transceiver that communicates with another wireless
transceiver within fixed sensor module 850.
[000222]    A battery 954 is mounted to a second side of PCB
952 to supply power to the optical sensor 950.              Battery 954
is  rechargeable through connector 958.            Signal  conditioning
and communication devices 956 are also mounted to a second
side of PCB 952.    Signal conditioning and communication
devices 956   include logic circuits, amplifiers,           filters and
input/output interfaces to condition and transmit electrical
signals between emitter 967,           receiver 968   and fixed sensor
module 850.
[000223]    When optical sensor module 900           is attached to
container 902,   light generated by emitter 967           is transmitted
through a first window 916,           a second window 837,   along
optical path length 966 within interior cavity 920,              through
a third window 837,   a fourth window 916 and is           received by
detector 967.    The windows         are transparent to the
                                        65

wavelengths/wavelengths of the photonic energy that is
transmitted through the windows.
[000224]   Detector 967 generates an electrical signal that
is proportional to the amount of IR or UV light received
which is proportional  to the concentration of sterilant
within container 802.   The electrical signal is     conditioned
by signal conditioning and communication devices      956 and
transmitted through connectors   958 and 838   to processor 870
for use in determining the sterility of the contents of
container assembly 800.
[000225]   During use, a rack or tray 160    (FIG. 2) containing
medical/surgical instruments 180    (FIG. 2)  in a desired
orientation to be sterilized are placed within container
802.  Rack 160 is placed onto and rests on bottom panel       807.
[000226]   An external cable and connector    (not shown) are
attached to connector 838  in order to load memory 871 with
validated sterilization process measurement      (VSPM).   After
tray 160 is placed within container 802,     cover 550   is placed
over container 802,  engaging hinge 545 and latch lock 548       is
moved into engagement with latch lock receiver 839 to a
locked position, locking cover 550 to container 802.
Container assembly 800  is now ready for processing through a
sterilization cycle.
[000227]   Removable optical sensor module 900     is attachable
and detachable from container 802 and has     several
advantages.   Because removable optical sensor module 900
contains higher cost electronic sensor components that may
consume larger amounts of power, it is desirable to recharge
and re-use a relatively small number of removable optical
sensor modules 900 with a relatively large number of
containers  802 that contain fixed sensor modules 850      in
order to reduce the overall cost of the sterilization
system.  Splitting the sterilization sensor electronics into
                               66

two separate assemblies 850   and 950 allows for the use of a
lower number of removable optical sensor modules.
IX. Electronic Sensor Printed Circuit Boards
[000228]   FIGS.  12A, 12B and 12C, illustrate further details
of the design of sensor modules, 200,   460,  560,  660 and 760.
With specific reference to FIG. 12A, a steam sensing module
1000 is  shown.   Steam sensing module is specialized for
monitoring and recording steam sterilization process
measurements.    Steam sensing module 1000 comprises a
generally rectangular shaped multi-layer printed circuit
board  (PCB) 1010  that has a top side 1012  and a bottom side
1014.   Printed circuit lines 1016 are patterned on each side
and layer of PCB 1010   in order to electrically connect the
components of steam sensing module 1000.
[000229]   A processor 1020  and memory 1022  are mounted to
top side 1012.    A humidity or water vapor sensor 1024   is
mounted to top side   1012.  Humidity or water vapor sensor
1024 can be a hygrometer type humidity sensor or a
capacitive humidity sensor.    Humidity sensor 1024 outputs an
electrical signal   (voltage) that is proportional to the
concentration of water vapor surrounding steam sensing
module 1000.    In another embodiment, water vapor sensor is a
optical sensor with an emitter and detector that operates at
a specific wavelength to monitor and read the water vapor
concentration surrounding the optical sensor.      Water vapor
optical sensor operation is   not described in detail here,
but operates at a different wavelength as the optical sensor
1052 for Hydrogen Peroxide vapor as describe later.
[000230]   Pressure sensor 1026 is mounted to top side 1012.
Pressure sensor 1026 can be a semi-conductor piezoresistive
strain gauge that uses the piezoresistive effect of bonded
or formed strain gauges to detect strain due to applied
                                67

pressure.   Pressure sensor 1026 uses strain gauges connected
to form a Wheatstone bridge circuit that maximizes the
electrical output and reduces sensitivity to errors.
Pressure sensor 1026 measures a absolute pressure in
atmospheres  (atm) or bars.    Pressure sensor 1026 outputs an
electrical signal   (voltage) that is proportional to the
absolute pressure surrounding steam sensing module 1000.
[000231]   Temperature sensor 1028    is mounted to top side
1012.   The structure of temperature sensor 1028    is not part
of the present invention.     Temperature sensor 1028 outputs
an electrical signal    (typically a voltage) that is
proportional  to the temperature surrounding steam sensor
module 1000.   Temperature sensor 1028    is mounted and located
in an isolated manner such that thermal characteristics of
the mounting method maximizes the ability of the sensor to
measure the temperature of the environment with minimal
interference from the mount and mounting location.
[000232]   Light emitting diodes    (LEDS) 1030 such as green,
red and yellow LEDS are mounted to top side 1012.       A
connector 1032 is mounted to top side 1012.      Connector 1032
is used to connect to an external connector and cable in
order for processor   1020 to transmit and receive data from
external systems  and devices.     A replaceable and/or
rechargeable battery or battery pack 1034     is mounted to
bottom side 1014.    Battery 1034   supplies power to the
components of steam sensing module 1000.      Processor 1020   and
memory 1022  are in communication with each other.      Processor
1020 is  further in communication with each of sensors 1024,
1026,  1028, LEDS 1030,   connector 1032  and battery 1034.
[000233]   Turning to FIG.   12B, a hydrogen peroxide sensing
module 1050  is shown.    Hydrogen peroxide sensing module 1050
is used when hydrogen peroxide is used to sterilize the
instruments.   Hydrogen peroxide sensing module 1050      contains
                                 68

the same sensors  and components previously described for
steam sensing module 1000.         In addition, hydrogen peroxide
sensing module 1050 further includes one or more optical
sensor 1052  that senses the amount of IR and/or UV light
transmitted through an optical path length 1054.
[000234]  The one or more optical sensor 1052         includes an IR
or UV light source or emitter 1056.          The emitter 1056 may be
a bulb or an LED.    Sensor 1052 also       includes a detector 1058
capable of output a signal proportional to the intensity of
the wavelength of light emitted by emitter 1055.           The
sensor 1052  is mounted to top side        1012.  Light filter 1060
is mounted towards detector 1058         to remove any undesired
wavelengths.   Semi-circular light concentrators 1062          are
mounted to top side    1012.      One  light concentrator 1062 is
positioned around emitter 1054 and another light
concentrator 1062  is positioned around detector 1058.           Light
concentrators 1062   reflect light rays that are not coaxial
to detector 1058.    Light concentrators 1062       are formed from
a material that efficiently reflects emitter 1054 energy
towards detector 1058       such as polished stainless steel.
Processor 1020 is  further in communication with emitter 1056
and detector 1058.
[000235]  Optical sensor 1052 is         configured to detect
hydrogen peroxide   (H 2 0 2 ) vapor.   Because hydrogen peroxide
vapor absorbs infrared light at a wavelength of 2.93 microns
and UV light at a wavelength of 240 nanometers, the amount
of light transmitted through a known path length          (1054) of
hydrogen peroxide vapor is proportional to the concentration
of the hydrogen peroxide vapor.          A higher concentration of
hydrogen peroxide gas results in less light reaching
detector 1058.   A lower concentration of hydrogen peroxide
gas results in more light reaching detector 1058.           In one
embodiment, optical sensor is capable to measure the
                                     69

concentration of hydrogen peroxide from 0.05 mg/l up to 25
mg/L concentration typically used for sterilization.
 [000236]    The transmittance of light through a gas    is
described by the Beer-Lambert law.       The Beer-Lambert law
states   that there is a logarithmic dependence between the
transmission T, of light through a substance and the product
of the absorption coefficient of the substance, a,       and the
distance the light travels through the material       (i.e., the
path length),      . The absorption coefficient can, in turn, be
written as a product of either a molar
absorptive     (extinction coefficient) of the absorber, c, and
the molar concentration c of absorbing species      in the
material, or an absorption cross section,      G, and the
 (number) density N of absorbers. For hydrogen peroxide gas,
        T=  T
 [000237]    where jo and  I are, respectively,
the intensity of the light transmitted in the absence of the
light absorbing gas and the transmitted light, respectively;
G  is the hydrogen peroxide molar absorption coefficient and
N  is the hydrogen peroxide concentration.      Light detector
1058 outputs an electrical signal      (voltage) that is
proportional     to the concentration of hydrogen peroxide gas
surrounding hydrogen peroxide sensing module 1050.
 [000238]    FIG.  12C illustrates another embodiment of a
hydrogen peroxide sensing module 1080.       Hydrogen peroxide
sensing module 1080 contains the same sensors and components
previously described for hydrogen peroxide sensing module
1050 except light concentrators 1062 have been replaced with
a different type of light concentrator.       An oval shaped
light concentrator assembly 1082     is mounted to the top side
1012 of PCB 1010.
                                  70

[000239]    Light concentrator assembly 1082  includes a pair
of arc or U-shaped light concentrators 1084    and a pair of
elongated parallel light shields    1086.  One light
concentrator 1084   surrounds emitter 1056 and another light
concentrator 1084   surrounds detector 1058.   Light shields
1086 extend between light concentrators    1084 and are
parallel to and spaced apart from light path 1054.      An array
of holes 1088   are defined in light shields  1086.  Holes 1088
allow hydrogen peroxide gas to circulate along light path
1054.   Light concentrators 1084   and light shields 1086 are
formed from a material that is     reflective of emitter energy
such as polished stainless steel.     In one embodiment, one
sensor module combines sensors and electronic components
from both steam sensor module 1000 and hydrogen peroxide
sensor module 1050   so that one sensor module can be used to
monitor and record in both steam and hydrogen peroxide
sterilization processes.    When combining steam sensor module
and hydrogen peroxide sensor module into one sensor module,
all components and sensors   from both sensor module 1000 and
1050 can incorporated into one sensor module system as
described above or the redundant components can be
eliminated saving cost and reducing the size of the combined
sensor module.
X. Electrical Schematic
[000240]    Turning to FIG. 13,  a block diagram 1100 of an
example electronic sensor module is    shown.  The schematic of
FIG.  13 is  intended to illustrate features of electronic
sensor modules, 200,   460, 560, 660,  760, 1000, 1050 and
1080.   FIG. 13 will generally be described with reference to
electronic sensor module 1050.
[000241]    Electronic sensor module 1050 includes a
controller 1120.    Controller 1120  comprises a processor
                                71

1020, memory 1022, power monitor 1122     and input/output
interface  1124.   Processor 1020   is in communication with
memory 1022, power monitor 1122     and input/output interface
1124 via one or more communication buses     1126.
[000242]   Processor  1020 is a suitable microprocessor, field
programmable  gate array or an application specific
integrated circuit.    One or more sets of instructions or
software are stored on a machine-readable medium or memory
1022 that embodies any one or more of the methods or
functions described herein.    Memory 1022   is a random access
memory  (RAM) or a nonvolatile random access memory such as
NAND flash memory or any other suitable memory.      Processor
1020 can also contain memory that at least partially stores
programs within processor 1020 during execution thereof.
Memory 1022  stores software or programs that at least
partially control the operation of container assemblies      90,
300, 400, 500,   600, 700 and 800.
[000243]   The term "memory or machine-readable medium" shall
also be taken to include any medium that     is capable of
storing, encoding or carrying out a set of instructions for
execution by the processor and that cause the processor to
perform any one or more of the methodologies shown in the
various embodiments of the present invention.      Machine
readable medium or memory shall accordingly be taken to
include, but not be limited to,     solid-state memories,
optical and magnetic media, and carrier wave signals.
[000244]   Power monitor 1122  regulates and controls the
power from power supply 1034.      Input/output interface 1124
provides the required timing, signal     levels and protocols to
allow processor 1020 to communicate with components external
to controller 1120.
[000245]   Electronic sensor module 1050 further includes a
timer 1132, LEDS/display 1030, power supply 1034,     wireless
                                72

transceiver 1138   and one or more sensors.   Timer 1132
provides clock signals   and a real time clock to processor
1020.   Timer 1132 may also include additional time
information like date and time of day information to
processor   1020.  LEDS/display 1030 provide visual
information to a user. Power supply 1034    supplies power to
electronic sensor module 1050.     Power supply 1034 is   a
battery or other suitable power source.
[000246]    I/O interface 1124 is in communication with
connector 1032 and wireless   transceiver 1138.    Wireless
transceiver 1138   includes a wireless  transmitter and
receiver that can transmit and receive wireless     signals   1140
containing data and instructions between electronic sensor
module 1050   and other components and devices.    In one
embodiment, electronic sensor module 1050    is in wireless
communication with sterilization chamber 52     (FIG. 1).    In
another embodiment, electronic sensor module 1050 is      in
wireless communication with open 359 and close 358 buttons
 (FIG. 5).  In another embodiment, electronic sensor module
1050 is   in wireless communication with a docking station as
will be described later.
[000247]    Processor 1020 is further in communication with
the sensors   of electronic sensor module 1050 through I/O
interface   1124.  In one embodiment, the sensors   are mounted
within a common enclosure to electronic sensor module 1050.
In another embodiment, the sensors are located remote from
electronic sensor module 1050 and are in communication with
electronic sensor module 1050 through a signal     cable or
through wireless   communication means.
[000248]    Humidity or water vapor sensor 1024, pressure
sensor 1026,   temperature sensor 1028  and hydrogen peroxide
gas sensor 1052 are all in communication with I/O interface
1124 via one or more communication busses    1142.   Actuators
                                73

312  (FIG. 5),  Hall effect sensors 382  (FIG. 5)  and switch
521  (FIG. 8) are also in communication with I/O interface
1124 via one or more external cables 314     (FIG. 5), 588   (FIG.
8).   Processor  1020 via I/O interface 1124   receives data
from the sensors   that indicate environmental characteristics
within a container undergoing sterilization processing.
[000249]   FIGS.  13 and 14 and the accompanying discussion
are intended to provide a general description of an
exemplary controller or processor adapted to implement the
described embodiments. While embodiments will be described
in the general context of instructions residing on memory
stored within a controller, those skilled in the art will
recognize that embodiments may be implemented in a
combination of program modules running in an operating
system. Generally, program modules include routines,
programs, components,   and data structures, which perform
particular tasks   or implement particular abstract data
types.
[000250]   With reference to FIG. 14,   details of the contents
of memory 1022 are illustrated.    Memory 1022 can store a
variety of data, sets of instructions, software, firmware,
programs or utilities for execution by processor 1020      and
that cause processor 1020 to perform any one or more of the
methods herein described.    Memory 1022  comprises validated
sterilization process measurements    (VSPM) 1150,
sterilization verification   software 1152,   sensor calibration
software 1154,   data recording software 1155,   data 1156 and
sterile monitor software 1158.
[000251]   Validated sterilization process measurements
 (VSPM) 1150,  are measurements, minimum values or limits that
when met within a container, during a sterilization process,
insure sterilization of the equipment load.      Sterilization
verification software 1152 uses VSPM 1150     to determine if
                                74

the environment within a container meets the VSPM
measurements, minimum values or VSPM limits.
[000252]   Sensor calibration software 1154   is used during a
sensor calibration process to calibrate the sensors.     Sensor
calibration software 1154  is used to calibrate or verify
accuracy of the sensors prior to the sensors being used to
monitor the sterilization process measurements within the
container.   Sensor calibration can be done in conjunction
with the docking station 1300 in figure 16 or sensor
calibration software can be used to calibrate the sensors
independent of the docking station 1300.
[000253]   By way of example, sensor calibration software
1154 calibrates the sensors   that measure the environmental
characteristic by measuring the extent to which a specific
wavelength of light is  absorbed.   One such sensor is  the
vaporized hydrogen peroxide sensor.    Specifically this
calibration is performed when chamber is close to a perfect
vacuum, for example approximately 0.2   Torr.   At this time
there is virtually no gas   (vapor) in the chamber.   When the
chamber, and the container environment is   in this state,
there is, by no extension essentially no absorption of the
emitted light.   Data recording software 1155 records the
measurement,  the signal from the sensor detector when the
container is  in this state as the signal  level indicating
that the container is gas  free.   The subsequent signals
representative of the measured gas are compared to this base
signal.  Based on this comparison and constants developed
based on the Beer-Lambert  law, the concentration of the
measured gas is calculated.
                               75

XI.  Docking Station
[000254]   FIG.  15 illustrates one embodiment of a docking
station 1200 used in conjunction with container assemblies
90,  300, 400, 500,  600, 700 and 800.    Docking station 1200
is used during the loading of surgical instruments      into the
containers and to recharge batteries of container
embodiments described herein.     With reference to FIG. 15,
docking station 1200 comprises a frame 1202      and a display
1230.   Frame 1202  includes a base 1204   that has  four legs
1206 spaced apart from each other by ninety degrees and a
support member 1208.    Legs 1206 extend outwardly from the
bottom of support member 1208.      Wheels 1210  are mounted to
the distal ends of legs 1206 to allow docking station 1200
to be moved within a medical facility.
[000255]   A shelf or container holder 1212     is mounted to the
upper end of support member 1208.      A container, for example,
container 100 of FIG. 2 rests on and is supported by shelf
1212.   Display 1230 is mounted to base 1202 by an
articulated arm 1232 that has one or more pivoting joints
1234.   Arm 1232 can be moved to several different angles and
positions by a user by moving and rotating pivoting joints
1234.   Arm 1232 allows display 1230 to be positioned for
optimal viewing by medical personnel.
[000256]   Docking station 1200    further includes a handheld
reader 1240  and connector plugs 1250.     Handheld reader 1240
is  in communication with connector plugs    1250 via a cable
1242.   Handheld reader 1240  can be either a bar code scanner
or an RFID reader.    In one embodiment, handheld reader 1240
is  a bar code scanner that can scan bar codes     135, 235  (FIG.
3)  located on container assemblies    90-800.   The bar code
reader is also used to read bar codes on the instrument
trays or racks   160 and 720 that may be placed in the
containers.     In another embodiment, handheld reader 1240     is
                                76

an RFID reader that can read RFID tags 135,    235  (FIG. 3)
located on container assemblies   90-800.   Handheld reader
1240 transmits scanned data to docking station 1200.
Handheld reader 1240  is used to obtain data and information
about the containers and/or their contents.     This read data
can be processed by the docking station to provide
information back to the user.    For example, the docking
station can produce an image of the equipment set and
equipment rack to be loaded into the container.      The docking
station can provide instructions on what to load, what
orientation to load and how to complete the sterile barrier
of the container.
[000257]  As discussed above, each instrument tray or rack
is designed to hold a specific set of instruments.      A set of
validated sterilization process measurements are known for
the particular rack/tray and associated instruments.      The
hand held reader retrieves from the tray or rack the data
identifying the tray or rack    Based on these tray or rack
identifying data, the docking station retrieves the VSPM
data from the docking station memory.     These data are loaded
into the sensor module memory for the set of instruments      to
be sterilized.  The read data can also be used with other
asset tracking systems  and workflow tracking systems within
the hospital to track the location and contents of the
container assemblies.
[000258]  Connector plugs  1250 are mounted to a proximal
section of shelf 1212.   Connector plugs   1250 are used to
connect devices to docking station 1200 using cables and
connectors.  Container 100 with electronic sensor module 200
is connected to docking station 1200   through cable 1246.
One end of cable 1246 is connected to connector 244 and the
other end of cable 1246 is  connected to one plug of
connector plugs 1250.   Cable 1246 is used to recharge
                               77

batteries of electronic sensor module 200 and to transmit
and receive data between electronic module 200 and docking
station 1200.   For example, validated sterilization process
measurements  can be transmitted from docking station 1200
via cable 1246 and stored in electronic sensor module 200.
In another embodiment, docking station 1200    can communicate
by wireless means with electronic sensor module 200.
[000259]   Display 1230 is in communication with a controller
1402  (FIG. 17) that is internal to docking station 1230.
Display 1230  is a touch screen display such as a liquid
crystal, LED or plasma display that allows a user to provide
input to the docking station.    Other input devices such as a
keyboard can be connected to docking station 1200.
Controller 1402 can show various pictures or screens    1260  on
display 1230.   For example, in FIG.  15, screen 1260 displays
surgical instruments  180 to be placed by a user into tray
160 of container 100.   Screen 1260 illustrates   to the user
the type of, the name of or number of instruments    180 to be
placed on tray 160 and the correct location and orientation
of each instrument 180  on tray 160.   In FIG.  15, the
surgical instruments  180 shown are powered surgical drills
or handpieces.
[000260]   In one embodiment, handheld reader 1240 reads bar
codes on surgical instruments   180 to be sterilized.
Handheld reader transmits the bar code information via cable
1242 to controller 1402.   Controller 1402  can search a
database of tray configurations and display a screen 1260     to
a user identifying the correct tray 160 to be used with the
identified surgical instruments   180 and the number, location
and orientation of the identified surgical instruments    180
to be placed in tray 160.   The combination of surgical
instruments,  instrument rack 160  and other items that were
validated together comprise the equipment load inside of the
                               78

sterile barrier.    This equipment load is described in Figure
19 as content ID 1610.     The user can populate the tray 160
with the correct surgical instruments 180      in the correct
position for sterilization while viewing screen 1260.
Screen 1260   assists in preventing the placement of incorrect
surgical instruments    180 with an incorrect tray 160.       Screen
1260 also assists in preventing a user from incorrectly
orientating the surgical instruments      180 in tray 160.
[000261]   Referring to FIG. 16,     another embodiment of a
docking station 1300    is shown.    Docking station 1300   is used
in conjunction with container assemblies      90,  300,  400,  500,
600,  700 and 800.   Docking station 1300 is used during the
loading of surgical instruments      into the containers,   to
calibrate sensors   and to recharge batteries.      Docking
station 1300   comprises a frame    1302 and a display 1230.
Frame 1302   includes a generally rectangular base 1304       that
has four wheels   1306 mounted to the corners of base 1304.
[000262]   Panels  1308  cover the sides and rear of frame
1302.   A pair of doors 1310   are mounted to the front of
frame  1302 allowing access to an interior compartment 1312
of frame 1302.    A rectangular shaped calibration chamber
1320 is mounted to the upper half of frame 1302       above doors
1310.   Calibration chamber 1320 has a proxil end that
extends over doors 1310    and a distal end that abuts     rear
panel  1308.   Calibration chamber 1320 has    interior side,
top, bottom and rear panels or walls 1322.        Panels  1322
define an interior cavity 1324.       Calibration chamber 1320
holds a container assembly such as container assembly 400
during a calibration process to calibrate the sensors
contained within container assembly 400.
[000263]   A door 1326 is mounted to the front of calibration
chamber 1320 by a hinge 1328.      Door 1326 is moved to open
and close calibration chamber 1320.       Door lock 1330 mates
                                 79

with a lock receptacle 1332    to keep door 1326 in a closed
position.     An elastomeric gasket 1334  is mounted around a
peripheral edge of door 1326 and forms a seal when door 1326
is  closed.
[000264]    A  connector 1336 is mounted to a side interior
wall 1322.     Connector 1336 is mated with a connector mating
portion 1338    and cable 1340 when container assembly 400    is
placed in interior cavity 1324.     The other end of cable 1340
is  connectable to connector 485 mounted to container 402.
Connectors 485,    1336, 1338 and cable 485 allow docking
station 1300    to communicate with electronic sensor module
460   (FIG. 7A) within container 402 during a calibration
process.    While connector 1336 is shown in FIG. 16 as being
connected to container assembly 400,     any of container
assemblies    90, 400, 500, 600 700 and 800 can be connected to
connector 1336 and calibrated using calibration chamber
1320.
[000265]    A planar shelf 1342 is mounted over the top of
calibration chamber 1320 and has    an angled portion 1344.      A
user can place a container on shelf 1342.      Handheld reader
1240 is   stored in a holder 1345 in angled portion 1344 when
not in use.
[000266]    Several  charging receptacles 1346 are mounted to
angled portion 1344. Charging receptacles 1346 are shaped to
receive electronic sensor modules 200     (FIG. 1)  that have
been removed from their respective container in order to
recharge batteries within electronic sensor module 200.
Charging receptacles 1346 are also able to receive removable
battery packs such as batteries 1034     (FIG. 12B)  for
recharging.     Charging receptacles 1346 contain terminals
 (not shown) that are connected to a battery charger internal
to docking station 1300.
                                 80

[000267]    Display 1230   is mounted to frame 1302 by an
articulated arm 1232 that has one or more pivoting joints
1234.   Arm 1232    is moved to several different angles and
positions by a user by moving and rotating pivoting joints
1234.   Arm 1232 allows display 1230 to be positioned for
optimal viewing by medical personnel.       Display 1230  can show
screens   1260  as previously described in conjunction with
FIG.  15.
[000268]    Turning now to FIG.    17, an electrical block
diagram 1400    of docking stations 1200   and/or 1300 is
depicted.    A docking station controller 1402 controls the
operation of docking stations 1200 and 1300.       Docking
station controller 1402     comprises a processor 1410, memory
1412 and input/output interface 1414.       Processor 1410  is in
communication with memory 1412 and input/output       (I/0)
interface   1414 through one or more communication buses     1416.
The components of controller 1402      are mounted to a printed
circuit board     (not shown).
[000269]    Processor   1410 is a suitable microprocessor, field
programmable    gate array or an application specific
integrated circuit.      One or more sets of instructions or
software are stored on a machine-readable medium or memory
1412 that embodies any one or more of the methods or
functions described herein.      Memory 1412  is a random access
memory   (RAM) or a nonvolatile random access memory such as
NAND flash memory or any other suitable memory.        Processor
1410 can also contain memory that least partially stores
programs within processor 1410 during execution thereof.
Memory 1412    stores software or programs that control the
operation of docking stations 1200 and 1300.
[000270]    Power supply 1418   supplies power to the components
of controller 1402     and other components of docking stations
1200 and 1300.      Power supply 1418  is connected to a utility
                                  81

power source.    I/O interface 1414 provides the required
timing, signal levels    and protocols to communicate with
components   internal and external to controller 1402.
[000271]    I/O interface 1414   is   in communication with
battery charger 1420 and wireless transceiver 1422.         Battery
charger 1420   is used to recharge the batteries contained
within the electronic sensor modules connected to the
docking station.      Wireless transceiver 1422 includes a
wireless transmitter and receiver that can transmit and
receive data and instructions via a wireless signal        1424.
In one embodiment, docking stations 1200 and/or 1300
communicate with container assemblies 90-800       using wireless
signal  1424.
[000272]    I/O interface 1414   is   also in communication with
other external components     such as a keyboard 1426, display
1230 and handheld reader 1240.        Keyboard 1426 is used to
input  information to docking stations 1200      and 1300.
Processor   1410 transmits video display data such as screens
1260 to be shown on display 1230.        Handheld reader 1240
transmits data to processor 1410.
[000273]    I/O interface 1414   is   further in communication
with several   components used during a calibration procedure
with docking station 1300.      I/O interface is in
communication with a steam generator 1430, hydrogen peroxide
generator 1432, pressure pump      1434, vacuum pump 1436 and
heater 1438 via communication bus 1416.        All of the
calibration components are mounted within interior
compartment 1312    (FIG. 16)  below calibration chamber 1320
 (FIG. 16).
[000274]    Steam generator 1430     is connected by piping to
calibration chamber 1320.      Steam generator 1430   is used to
generate a known concentration of steam within calibration
chamber 1320   during a calibration procedure.      Hydrogen
                                  82

peroxide generator 1432   is connected by piping to
calibration chamber 1320.    Hydrogen peroxide generator 1432
is used to generate a known concentration of hydrogen
peroxide within calibration chamber 1320 during a
calibration procedure.    Pressure pump 1434  is connected by
piping to calibration chamber 1320.     Pressure pump 1434   is
used to generate a known pressure level within calibration
chamber 1320  during a calibration procedure.
[000275]  Vacuum pump 1436 is connected by piping to
calibration chamber 1320.    Vacuum pump 1436 is used to
generate a known vacuum level within calibration chamber
1320 during a calibration procedure.     Heaters 1438 are
mounted to the outer surfaces of interior walls 1322      (FIG.
16) of calibration chamber 1320.     Heaters 1438  are used to
generate a known temperature within calibration chamber 1320
during a calibration procedure.     Processor 1410  controls the
operation of steam generator 1430,    hydrogen peroxide
generator 1432, pressure pump    1434, vacuum pump 1436 and
heater 1438 during a calibration procedure.
[000276]  Processor  1410 is  in communication with a network
1450 via a network communication fabric 1452.      In one
embodiment, network 1450 is   in communication with a medical
facility or hospital data processing system or computer
system 1454 via network communication fabric 1458.      Docking
stations 1200  and 1300  can transmit and receive information
from computer system 1454.    For example, hospital computer
system 1454  can maintain a database   1456 of surgical
instruments  and tools used within the medical facility.
Docking stations 1200   and 1300 can transmit information
regarding the number and type of sterile or non-sterile
surgical instruments contained in a container to hospital
computer system 1454  in order to update database 1456.      Data
transmitted and received between the various computer
                                83

systems  and data sources may be encrypted for security
purposes to prevent unauthorized access or tampering.
[000277]   Memory 1412  can store a variety of data, sets of
instructions, software, programs or utilities for execution
by processor 1410   and that cause processor 1410 to perform
any one or more of the methods herein described.    Items
stored in memory 1412 may be encrypted prior to storage for
security purposes.
[000278]   Memory 1412  comprises nominal chamber processing
parameters   (CPP) 66, sensor calibration software 1460,
container programming software 1461,   container loading
software 1464,   container configuration data 1465, equipment
load data, validated sterilization process measurements
 (VSPM) 1150, process measurement limit determination
software 1466,   usage data 1470 and usage software 1472.
[000279]   CPP 66 are the nominal processing settings used by
health care workers to program CPP 66 to the nominal
sterilization process for sterilization chamber 52 to
control the sterilization process cycle.    Sensor calibration
software 1460   is used by docking station 1300 during the
calibration of the sensors   associated with a respective
container.    Sensor calibration software 1460 at least
partially controls the operation of steam generator 1430,
hydrogen peroxide generator 1432, pressure pump 1434, vacuum
pump  1436 and heater 1438 during a calibration procedure.
[000280]   Container programming software 1461  is used to
load container memory 1022 with VSPM 1150.    Container
loading software 1464   is used with container/tray
configuration data 1465 to verify that the correct surgical
instruments   are loaded into the proper tray and container.
[000281]   VSPM 1150 are the values of sterilization process
measurements   associated with an equipment load, that when
met within a container for an equipment load, insure
                                84

sterilization of the container contents.    Container and tray
configurations  1464 are a database of container types, tray
and rack types if needed and surgical instruments that
detail the tray to be used with specific surgical
instruments  and the placement and orientation of the
surgical instruments within the tray.    VSPM 1150 is
correlated to the surgical equipment load using methods
described herein.   Container loading software extracts the
surgical equipment load configuration to aid the health care
worker when they are loading and preparing a container for
sterilization.   Container loading software can also
facilitate data inputs to record who is preparing the
container, when they are preparing the container, what is
loadento the container and other pertinent information that
are required by regulations or are good business practices
for recording, tracking or improving the quality of the
container loading process.   The container and tray
configurations data can be written text,   images of
instrument racks,  instrument configurations and/or
instrument orientations or a combination of both text and
images.
[000282]   Process measurement limit determination software
1466 is used to determine and generate the values for VSPM
1150 data.   Typically, process measurement limit
determination software 1466 will be used by the OEM of the
instrument  set to establish and correlate VSPM data of the
equipment combination to the sterilization validation.
Hospitals or users of the VSPM data would not typically use
process measurements  limit determination software 1466.
Hospitals could use the process measurements limit
determination software 1466 if they want to validate and
correlate a surgical equipment load that   is different than
what was provided by the OEM.    Usage data 1470 contains data
                               85

tracking the number of sterilization processing cycles
undergone by each of the respective containers   or tracks the
number of hours that each of the respective containers are
in use.  Usage software 1472  is  a software program that
monitors the number of sterilization processing cycles
undergone by each of the respective containers   or tracks the
number of hours that each of the respective containers are
in use and generates usage data 1470.    Usage data can be
used for billing, sterile processing or workflow status,
calibration status or for preventative maintenance of
electronic sensor modules or containers.
[000283]  In some versions  of the invention the hand held
reader is used to identify which specific instruments are
placed in a container.  After a sterilization cycle, the
sterilization process measurements recorded by the sensor
module for the container is matched with the data
identifying the instruments in the container.    Thus a log is
maintained for each instrument of the number of
sterilization processes to which the instrument was exposed
and the environmental measurements made during the process.
These data may also be used for inventory and billing
control.
XII. Computerized Method of Tracking Container Usage
     And Billing on Fee Per Use Basis
[000284]  With reference to FIG. 18,   a diagrammatic view of
a networked computer system 1500   for tracking container
usage and billing is shown.   Networked computer system 1500
comprises one of docking stations 1200,   1300, a manufacturer
computer system 1510 and a hospital computer system 1454
that are all interconnected by a communication network 1450
and in communication with each other.    Communication network
1450 can encompass a variety of networks   such as the
                               86

internet, local area networks, wide area networks or
wireless communication networks.
[000285]   Manufacturer computer system 1510  and hospital
computer system 1454  include any type of computing device or
machine that is capable of receiving, storing and running a
software product including not only computer systems   and
servers, but also devices such as routers and switches,
mainframe computers and terminals.    The operation of
manufacturer computer system 1510   and hospital computer
system 1454 will be described in the general context of
instructions residing on hardware within a server computer.
Those skilled in the art will recognize that embodiments may
be implemented in a combination of program modules running
in an operating system. Program modules include software,
routines, programs, components,   and data structures, which
perform particular tasks or implement particular data types.
The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing
environments where tasks are performed by remote processing
devices that are linked through a communications network. In
a distributed computing environment, software program
modules may be located in both local and remote memory
storage devices.
[000286]   Manufacturer computer system 1510  is in
communication with network 1450 via communication fabric
1552.  Manufacturer computer system 1510   includes a
processor  1520 and memory 1522. Memory 1512  can store a
variety of data, sets of instructions, software, programs or
utilities for execution by processor 1520.    Memory 1522
comprises invoice software 1530,   invoices 1532 and usage
data 1472.   Usage data 1472 can include hospital account
information like hospital name,   account number, billing
interval, contract pricing and other pertinent information
to properly track equipment usage and billing.
                               87

[000287]   Docking station 1200,   1300 transmits usage data
1472 to manufacturer computer system 1510.     Invoice  software
1530 when executed by processor 1520 generates    invoices 1532
based on usage data 1472 received from docking station 1200,
1300.   Processor 1520  stores the invoices in memory 1532   and
transmits the invoices 1532   to hospital computer system
1454.
[000288]   Hospital computer system 1510 is   in communication
with network 1450 via communication fabric 1458.     Hospital
computer system 1454   includes a processor 1570  and memory
1572.   Memory 1572 can store a variety of data, sets of
instructions, software, programs or utilities for execution
by processor 1570.   Memory 1572   comprises invoices 1532
received from manufacturer computer system 1510    and database
1456.
[000289]   Networked computer system 1500   is used in
conjunction with a business model where docking stations
1200,  1300 and containers  90-800  are leased or rented to a
medical facility or hospital.     The medical facility or
hospital pays for using the docking stations and containers
on a fee per use basis.    In one embodiment, docking station
1200,  1300 tracks the frequency of use of containers 90-800
during sterilization processing and generates usage data
1472 that is  transmitted to manufacturer computer system
1510.   Manufacturer computer system 1510 generates    invoices
1532 based on the amount of use of containers    90-800  and
transmits the invoices to hospital computer system 1454
where the invoices are processed for payment.
XIII.      Validated Sterilization Process Measurements
 (VSPM)
[000290]   FIGS. 19A-1  and 19A-2 when placed side-to-side
form a table of validated sterilization process measurements
                                88

 (VSPM) 1150.   VSPM 1150  are stored in memory 1412, memory
1522 or memory 1572    (FIG. 17).In some embodiments VSPM 1150
are stored in sensor module memory 1022.      VSPM 1150 data in
other embodiments are stored in memory 1412,     or memory 1522
or memory 1572 in a secure manner so that the correlated or
associated VSPM data is not modified after the validation
and correlation process described herein.      VSPM 1150  data
are determined during a validation and correlation process
as described in detail later.      Generally, the validation and
correlation process is used to correlate or associate
sterilization process measurements, as measured by sensors
within containers during the sterilization validation
process to a desired microorganism killing result for a
given set of surgical equipment or equipment load.       The data
measured and recorded by the electronic sensor system during
the validation is   then used to establish VSPM measurements,
thresholds or VSPM limits data sets.      After the VSPM data
sets are validated and correlated, these VSPM data sets are
used to compare sterilization process measurements at health
care facilities,   as monitored by sensors within container
assemblies,   to determine if the process measurements    for the
equipment load meet, exceed or are within the VSPM data set.
This comparison method is considered a verification method
that can be used with suitable sensor systems and container
assemblies each time Healthcare personnel sterilize surgical
equipment loads or sets using the methods and systems
described herein.    The VSPM data in one embodiment are time
based sterilization process measurements or limits that,
based on the validation and correlation method, that when
achieved during a sterilization processes for the associated
set of surgical equipment, confirm that the sterilization
process measurements were verified thus assuring the same
results achieved during the validation process, namely the
                                 89

same level of sterilization or disinfection of the equipment
load.   VSPM 1150   include one or more data sets    (VSPM 1150
Steam1, VSPM-1150-HPV) associated with content identifier
 (ID) 1610.   Content identifier 1610   identifies the surgical
equipment load inside the sterile barrier or container.
Content ID 1610 describes the surgical instruments,       surgical
tools  180  (FIG. 2),  and instrument racks   160,  720 within the
container or sterile barrier, often called the surgical
equipment load, that are correlated or associated with
validated sterilization process measurements       (VSPM) data
sets.   For example content CID 1160-3 can identify a Stryker
batteries surgical equipment load consisting of rechargeable
batteries for rotary surgical handpieces 180.        CID 1160-3
can be written, electronic or both types of text, images        or
photographs   that describe the composition of the equipment
load associated with VSPM data.      For example, content
identifier can include surgical equipment types, part
numbers, serial numbers, quantities and other unique
equipment load identifiers    that were validated together
during a sterilization validation and correlation process.
In one embodiment, content identifier 1610      can be electronic
photographs   taken of the equipment load during the
sterilization validation process using methods in figures
22-24.   In another embodiment, content identifier 1610 may
include a listing of the tray or rack identifier model
number for instrument rack     (160, 720)  that was used during a
sterilization validation process as well as a listing of all
of the equipment contained therein.       For example equipment
content identifier CID-1610-1 includes the instruments and
utensils 180-1   listed in Fig.   19(a) and the instrument rack
 (160, 720)  identified as Stryker 7102-450-010.      For Tray or
rack 720   identification is  important because it     orients the
cannulas within the rotary surgical handpieces in a
                                 90

generally downward orientation to facilitate air removal and
water drainage thereby facilitating sterilization.
[000291]   VSPM 1150 further includes one or more data sets
of validated sterilization process measurements, when one or
more sterilization process validations were performed and
associated with a content identifier 1610   or equipment load.
For example one data set   (VSPM-1150-S-1) for a validated
steam sterilization process, can contain water vapor
measurements, temperature measurements and time limit and
absolute pressure measurements and time limit   for a content
identifier CID 1610-1.   In another embodiment, another data
set  (VSPM-1150-H-1) for a Hydrogen Peroxide sterilization
process can consist of temperature limits, pressure limits,
water vapor concentration and the area under the time based
hydrogen peroxide vapor concentration curve    associated with
the same content identifier CID_1160-1.    For steam
sterilization, the temperature is the threshold or minimum
temperature held for a minimum period of time that the
interior environment and instrument   load within container
assemblies  90-4600 are required to experience during a
sterilization process in order to insure VSPM data
measurements  are met.  For example, the validated
sterilization process measurements for container No 7102
450-040 when rack No.  7102-450-010 is  contained in the first
row of the table of Figures 19A-1 and 19A-2.    More
particularly these data are the VSPM data for when the rack
and the instruments disposed on the rack   (collectively the
load) are subjected to a steam sterilization process.    AS
specified by the table cell the instruments on the rack
considered to be sterilized if the interior of the container
is  subjected to saturated steam at a minimum temperature of
270'F and that temperature is maintained for at least 3
minutes 55  seconds.
                               91

[000292]   The temperature of saturated steam can be
calculated from the pressure measurements  and compared
against the temperature measurements  to verify that the
steam is saturated. This comparison of the measured steam
temperature to the calculated saturation temperature can
also be used to verify that air is not present in sufficient
quantity to adversely affect sterilization efficacy.
[000293]   The validated sterilization process measurements
data 1150 may have thresholds or limits that the individual
measurements must simultaneously stay within as a function
of time or across the same time interval.   For the example
just provided, the temperature, absolute pressure and
saturation level of steam may have limits established for
the 3 minute 55  second time period.  Alternately, these
measured process measurements may have specific limits that
vary as a function of time.   For example, the first 2
minutes of a steam sterilization cycle, the temperature may
have a minimum threshold of 1310C and above and for the next
2 minutes the temperature may have a different threshold of
1330C and above.   When the instrument set is designed and
validated for more than one type of sterilization cycle, the
VSPM can include more than one type of VSPM data set.    If
the OEM designs and validates its equipment to be sterilized
with both steam and hydrogen peroxide sterilization process,
the VSPM table contains VSPM data for both sterilization
process.   In the table of Figures 19A-1 and 19A-2,  the VSPM
data for the separate sterilization processes are shown in
separate columns.   In this table, the VSPM measurements  for
a steam sterilization process is  shown in the first row.
Row two contains the VSPM data for the same load if the
instruments  are to be subjected to a vaporized hydrogen
peroxide sterilization process.   The table has both VSPM
data sets,  one set of data for steam sterilization  (VSPM
                               92

1150-S-1) and one set of data for hydrogen peroxide
sterilization   (VSPM-1150-H-2) with the same content CID
1610-1.  More specifically, content CID 1610-1 can be
associated with Temperature, absolute pressure and steam
saturation VSPM 1150-S-1 data set for steam sterilization
and Temperature, absolute pressure, hydrogen peroxide
concentration and water concentration VSPM 1150-H-1 data set
for hydrogen peroxide sterilization.    This provides the
capability for the VSPM data sets to be added for a given
equipment load or content ID to include additional VSPM data
for specific sterilization modalities after they have been
validated and correlated as described herein. The sensor
modules can be designed for use in a single sterilization
modality and denoted by SM0000XS for steam or SM0000XH for
hydrogen peroxide where OOOX identifies the type of sensor
module. In another embodiment, the sensor modules can also
be designed for use in more than one sterilization modality.
For example sensor module denoted by SM0000XSH can be used
in both steam sterilization and hydrogen peroxide
sterilization modalities where OOOX is the serial number
assigned to the sensor module. Figure 19   is arranged with a
unique sensor module in a row. A sensor module could be used
with any compatible Content ID 1610.   For example, Stryker
Sensor Module SM00001S   could be used with Content
Identification CID 1610-1, CID 1610-2 or CID 1610-5.
[000294]   For some sterilization processes, the validated
sterilization process measurements are measurements   that are
generated over time.    In the simplest form, these
measurements  are measurements that indicate the environment
inside the container had a minimal concentration of a
particular  sterilant for a defined minimum period of time.
One simple example are a set of measurements that indicate
                                93

the container environment contained saturated steam for a
period of at least 5 minutes.
[000295]    A more complex set of measurements are used to
generate the area under a curve.      The X-axis against which
this curve is plotted is time;     the Y-axis is the
concentration of the sterilant.      Typically the time is in
seconds   and the concentration mg/l.    Thus for one set of
instruments    in a container the validated sterilization
process may be a process where the area under this curve is
a vaporized hydrogen peroxide concentration of 5000
 (mg/l) (sec.)   This means that for a first sterilization
cycle the validated sterilization process measurements are
satisfied if a concentration of 25 mg/l of vaporized
hydrogen peroxide is measured for at least 200 seconds. For
a second sterilization cycle the validated sterilization
process measurements are satisfied if a concentration of 20
mg/l of vaporized hydrogen peroxide is measured for at least
100 second.     It should of course further be appreciated that
the area under this curve is typically for a minimal
concentration of sterilant.     Thus, in the example above,
time periods in which the container environment has     a
concentration of vaporized hydrogen peroxide less than 18
mg/l are not integrated into the targeted measurement.
[000296]    The area under the time based hydrogen peroxide
concentration curve is    the threshold or minimum
 (mg/liter) (sec) of hydrogen peroxide to which the interior
of one of the containers is    exposed to insure that the
contents of the container are sterilized.      For example, the
interior of container Stryker 7102-450-040     is required to be
exposed to a minimum of 2500 mg-s/l of hydrogen peroxide
during a sterilization process cycle when equipment of
content ID CID 1610-1 is present as set forth in the line 2
of Fig. 19A. If the water vapor content is     low compared to
                                 94

what it could have been at 100%   saturation at any time
during the exposure, the effective concentration can be
reduced at that time when it is   added into the area under
the time based concentration curve. For example, the
effective concentration can be halved when the concentration
of water vapor is  less than 80%  of the saturation
concentration. The saturation concentration of water vapor
depends upon both vapor temperature and the concentration of
hydrogen peroxide vapor that is present.
[000297]   Additional information in other embodiments
described in Figure 19A may be optionally associated with
either CID 1610 or VSPM 1150  data sets or both.    For
example, Container ID 1605 indentifies and describes the
specific type of container 90-4600 that was previously
subjected to a sterilization validation process.     When the
sterilization process results are known to or are suspected
to be affected by the type of container or the type of
sterile barrier used for an equipment load, container ID may
be associated with either content ID or VSPM data sets or
both.   If the type of container or sterile barrier used
during a sterilization process is known to not affect
sterilization results, container ID may not be associated
with content ID or VSPM data sets.    The later embodiment
allows the sterile barrier or container type used for
sterilization at health care facilities to change for an
equipment load without changing the sterilization results as
long as the process measurements   are properly verified to
comply with VSPM 1150 using sensor modules and methods
described herein.   For example, a container identified
identifies a specific container serial number provided by an
OEM or within the medical facility.    The container ID can
identify and translate to the container type,   sterile
barrier used, the electronic sensor module 200,   460,  560,
                               95

660, 760,  1000, 1050, 1080 type or sensor module
configuration.   Other data associated with content ID 1610
or VSPM 1150  data or both listed in figure 19 can be useful,
but not necessary when using different embodiments of this
invention.   For example, Nominal process parameters can be
output by the docking station so the sterilizer operator can
set the nominal process parameters for programming the
sterilizer.   These nominal process parameters  in this
example would be greater than or equal to the nominal
process parameters used during the validation and
correlation of VSPM 1150 data to content ID 1610.    In other
embodiments, data table may further include sensor module
usage.   The total number of sterilization cycles can be
obtained from the sensor module usage data and can be used
for business purposes like automated invoicing, preventative
maintenance  and for periodic replacement of container and
sensor components. The dates, content identifiers, container
identifiers  for the sterilized loads are used by the central
processing department for inventory tracking, billing and
control purposes.
[000298]   During loading and programming of a container
using a docking station, at least a portion of VSPM 1150    are
transmitted from the docking station to the electronic
sensor module and are stored in module memory 1022    (FIG.
14).   For example, if the container is being loaded and
programmed with content ID 1610-1 and tray ID Stryker 7102
450-010,  only the VSPM 1150-S-1  associated with content ID
1610-1 and associated sterilization process are transmitted
from memory 1412  to memory 1022.
                               96

XIV. Automatic Closing Container Vent
[000299]  FIGS. 20A-20C illustrate a container assembly 1700
having an automatic closing lip cap assembly 1720 that is
mounted to a container cover 1710.    Container assembly 1700
can retrofit an existing sterilization container into a
container that automatically closes after receiving a
closing signal from an electronic sensor module.    Automatic
closing container vent, when positioned in an open state
during a sterilization process, allows unrestricted passage
of sterilization agents into the container providing easier
access to the contents of the container to affect
sterilization.
[000300]  Container assembly 1700   is employed when the
efficiency of the sterilizing process is reduced or rendered
ineffective as a result of the presence of a filter over the
through openings in the container.    One reason a filter may
have this affect on the sterilizing process is because owing
to the composition of the filter and the composition of the
sterilant, the presence of the filter inhibits the flow of
sterilant through the filter.   The presence of a filter may
adversely also affect sterilization is because, the
sterilant when exposed to the material forming the filter,
undergoes a chemical reaction that reduces the efficacy of
the sterilant.
[000301]  Thus, to avoid these undesirable effects of the
presence of a filter container assembly 1700 typically does
not include a filter.  The vent is open and flow through the
vent is unrestricted at least for the time period the
container and the contents therein are undergoing a
sterilization cycle.
[000302]  Container cover 1710   is generally similar to cover
450 of FIG. 7A; however cover 1710 does not have any holes
459 or filter assemblies 440.   Cover 1710 has a planar top
                              97

panel   1712.   Top panel 1712 has   an upper surface 1714  and a
bottom surface 1716.       A circular central opening 1718 is
defined in top panel     1712.  Cover 1710  is placed over
container 402    in order to enclose container 402.
 [000303]   Container cover 1710 and container vent assembly
1720 can be retrofitted to any the previously described
containers    100, 402,  502 and 802  in order to provide the
containers with a cover that automatically closes after the
completion of a sterilization process cycle.       While
container vent assembly 1720     is  shown mounted to cover 1710,
container vent assembly 1720     alternatively can be mounted to
any of the side panels of container 402.       By relocation the
container vent to a different panel      it may allow steriliant
to enter and exit more efficiently to affect sterilization
of the contents of the container.       Also, more than one
container vent 1720 positioned on one or more panels may be
used on a single container.
 [000304]   Automatic closing container vent assembly 1720     is
mounted to top panel     1712.  More specifically, container
vent assembly 1720    is  received by opening 1718.   Container
vent assembly 1720    comprises a circular carriage 1722,    cap
1760, circuit board 1770 and linear solenoid 1780.       Carriage
1722 includes an outer ring 1728      connected to a central drum
1734 by cross members 1724.      Outer ring 1728 is
perpendicular to cross members 1724.       A peripheral rim 1726
extends perpendicularly away from and surrounds ring 1728.
A  recess 1730   is defined between ring 1728   and cross members
1724.    Carriage  1722 and container vent 1760 are formed from
injection molded plastic.
 [000305]   Carriage 1722   is mounted in opening 1718.    Rim
1726 rests on top surface 1714      supporting carriage 1722.
The outer surface of ring 1728 abuts      the annular portion of
panel   1712 defined by opening 1718.     In one embodiment,
                                  98

carriage 1722  is press fit into opening 1718.    In another
embodiment, carriage 1722   is sealingly affixed to panel    1712
using an adhesive or sealed mechanical fasteners.
[000306]   Central drum 1734  is cylindrical in shape and has
a base 1736.   An outer wall 1738   and an inner hub 1740
extend perpendicularly away from base 1736.     Base 1736,
outer wall 1738 and inner hub 1740 define a groove 1742
therein.   A central bore  1744 extends entirely through base
1736 and inner hub 1740.    Another bore 1746 extends
perpendicularly through inner hub 1740    approximately midway
along the length of inner hub 1740.     Bore 1746 extends
between groove 1742 and bore 1744.     Several mounting bosses
1748 are affixed to base   1736 adjacent wall 1738.    Mounting
bosses  1748 extend perpendicularly away from base    1736 into
groove 1742.   Mounting bosses   1748 are used to attach
circuit board 1770  to carriage 1722.
[000307]   Cap 1760 includes a circular disc 1761   that is
attached to a cylindrical shaft 1765.     Disc 1761 has  an
outer annular side 1762.    An annular groove 1763 is defined
in side 1762.   Groove 1763 is dimensioned to receive a
circular elastomeric O-ring 1764.     Cylindrical shaft 1765
extends perpendicularly away from the bottom side of disc
1761.   Shaft 1765 has  a central bore 1766 that extends
partially into shaft   1765 parallel to the axis of shaft
1765.   Shaft 1765 also has  two bores 1767  and 1768 that
extend partially into shaft 1765 perpendicular to the axis
of shaft 1765.   Bores 1767  and 1768 have a length that is
approximately one half the diameter of shaft    1765.   Bore
1767 is  spaced from the bottom side of disc 1761   and bore
1768 is  spaced from the terminal end of central bore 1766.
[000308]   A printed circuit board 1770   is affixed in groove
1742 by fasteners 1771.    Groove 1742  is dimensioned to
receive printed circuit board 1770.     Fasteners 1771 extend
                                99

through circuit board 1770   and are threaded into mounting
bosses  1748.   Several electrical components are mounted to
circuit board 1770.    A battery 1772, wireless transceiver
1773,  solenoid housing 1774   and solenoid driver 1775 are
mounted to circuit board 1770.      Linear solenoid 1780    is
mounted in and held by solenoid housing 1774.          Battery
1772 is  either a rechargeable or replaceable battery or
supplies power to the components of circuit board 1770.
Printed circuit board 1770   is in communication with one of
electronic sensor modules 200,     460,  560, 660,  760 and 850.
In one embodiment, wireless    transceiver 1773 receives
wireless communications from one of the electronic sensor
modules 200-850.    In another embodiment, an electrical cable
1779 is  connected between circuit board 1770 and one of the
electronic sensor modules 200-850.       Solenoid driver 1775 is
in communication with linear solenoid 1780      and causes linear
solenoid 1780   to move an attached rod 1782.      Rod 1782  is
linearly movable between an extended position and a
retracted position.
[000309]   A  coil spring 1790  surrounds shaft    1765.   A spring
retainer 1792   is mounted over coil spring 1790     and includes
a boss 1793 that extends into bore      1766.  Spring retainer
1792 retains coil spring 1790 to shaft 1765.        Spring
retainer 1792 has   an annular lip 1794    that extends over and
abuts a distal end of spring 1790.       The proximal end of
spring 1790   abuts the terminal end of inner hub 1740.
Spring retainer 1792   is either press fit into bore 1766 or
is affixed in bore 1766 using an adhesive.       Coil spring 1790
biases  container vent 1760  to move towards carriage 1722.
In an open position, as shown in FIG. 20B, a passage 1996 is
formed between carriage 1722    and the bottom of disc 1761.
[000310]   Container vent 1760 is    retained in the open
position, by solenoid rod 1782 extending through inner hub
                                100

bore  1746 and into container vent bore 1768.     In this
position, coil spring 1790   is compressed.    Container vent
1760 is   opened from a closed position in a two step process.
First, a user uses an input device to trigger the retraction
of solenoid rod 1782 out of bore 1767 by solenoid 1780.         In
one embodiment, the input device is the touch screen 1230
 (FIG. 15)  of docking station 1200.    Second, the user
manually grasps container vent 1760 and pulls upwardly on
container vent 1760 moving container vent 1760     away from
carriage 1722.    Solenoid rod 1782  is  outwardly biased by a
spring   (not shown) such that when container vent bore 1768
moves  into axial  alignment with inner hub bore 1746, rod
1782 automatically extends into container vent bore 1768
thereby holding container vent 1760     in the open position.
[000311]    During use, lip cap assembly 1720   and container
cover 1710 are part of the container assembly that undergoes
a sterilization process cycle in a sterilization chamber.
After electronic sensor module 200-850     determines that the
environment within container 402    during sterile processing
were sufficient to meet or exceed a required set of
environmental characteristics    (VSPM 1150)  to insure
sterility of the surgical instruments being sterilized,
sensor module 200-850   transmits an electrical signal via
wireless transceiver 1773 or electrical cable 1779 to
solenoid driver 1775 instructing solenoid driver 1772       to
close container vent 1760.
[000312]    Solenoid driver 1775 causes solenoid 1780    to
retract solenoid rod 1782.    When rod 1782 moves out of
engagement with bore 1768,   spring 1790 biases container vent
1760 to move into recess 1730 thereby closing passage 1796.
The travel of container vent 1760    is  limited by the abutment
of the bottom of disc 1761   against cross members 1724.       At
the same time, 0-ring 1764   is compressed between the disc
                               101

outer side 1762 and the inner surface of ring 1728    forming a
seal.
[000313]   In one embodiment, when container vent bore 1767
moves  into axial alignment with inner hub bore 1746, rod
1782 automatically extends into container vent bore 1767
thereby holding container vent 1760  in the closed position.
In another embodiment, after container vent 1760   is  closed,
sensor module 200-850  transmits an electrical signal via
wireless transceiver 1773 or electrical cable 1779 to
solenoid driver 1775 instructing solenoid driver 1772     to
cause solenoid 1780 to extend solenoid rod 1782.    In the
extended position, the distal end of rod 1782   is received by
and engaged with bore 1767,  thereby locking container vent
1760 to carriage 1722.
[000314]   The use of automatic closing container assembly
1700 and automatic closing lip cap assembly 1720   allows
existing containers to be retrofitted with an automatic
closing device that eliminates the need for filters    or
filter assemblies.   When passage 1796 is open,  sterilant is
able to readily enter and permeate container 402 without
interference.
[000315]   After the container and its contents are subjected
to the phase or phases of a sterilization cycle in which
sterilant is  introduced into the container, passage 1796 is
held open for an additional time period.   This is to allow
residual sterilant that may be in the container to evaporate
and vent from the container.   A benefit of allowing this
venting of the sterilant is  that, if the sterilant is
potentially hazardous to tissue, the likelihood of residual
sterilant contacting a patient or hospital personnel is
substantially eliminated.
[000316]   In some versions of the invention the processor
integral with the sensor module closes cap 1760   over
                              102

passage 1796 when the sensor measurements      indicate that the
container environment has been at a select temperature or
pressure for a select period of time.      In other versions    of
the invention the processor closes the cap when the sensor
measurements  indicate that the container has been cycled
through a set number of pressure set points.
XV. Operational Method to Determine     if Validated
Sterilization Process Measurements in a Container Have Been
Verified During a Sterilization Process
[000317]   Referring to FIG. 21,    a flowchart of a method 2100
of verifying if validated sterilization process measurements
 (VSPM) within a container have been achieved during a
sterilization or disinfection process is     shown.    Method 2100
illustrates  an exemplary method by which the container
assemblies 90,  300, 400, 500,    600, 700 800,  2900 and 4600
 (90-4600) and electronic sensor modules 200,     460,  560,  660,
760,  850, 950, 1000, 1050, 1080 and 3500     (200-3500)
presented within the preceding figures perform different
aspects of the processes that enable one or more embodiments
of the disclosure.   Method 2100 is described specifically as
being performed using container assembly 400       (FIG. 7A) and
sensor module 1050   (FIG. 12B).    However, method 2100 can be
performed using any of container assemblies      90-800 and
electronic sensor modules 200-3500.      The description of the
method is provided with general reference to the specific
components  illustrated within the preceding figures.        In the
discussion of FIG. 21,   reference will also be made to
components  from FIGS.  1-20.
[000318]   Method 2100 begins at step 2102 where the
equipment load of surgical instruments 180      is prepared for
sterilization processing by an operator.       Step 2102 includes
the positioning of container 402     onto docking station 1200
                                103

or 1300  and if the container has    a connector, connecting the
corresponding connector 485,    1032  to the docking station.
In an alternate embodiment, connecting the sensor module to
the docking station can be made through a wireless
communication system.    At step 2102, handheld reader 1240     is
used to scan the equipment load to be sterilized.       In and
alternate embodiment, equipment load or contents ID can be
entered into the docking station or selected from a list or
menu containing all equipment loads or content IDs that have
associated VSPM data.    Step 2102 further includes the
placement of the equipment load into container 402 and
enclosing the container with cover 450.      During the loading
of surgical instruments,   180,  the operator refers to the
display screen 1260 shown by docking station 1200 or 1300       to
view the correct equipment load items and instrument loading
orientation.   This display can help the operator in setting
up the same equipment load and orientation that was used
when validating and associated VSPM data to the equipment
load.   In an optional step 2104, the sensors of electronic
sensor module 460,  1050  are calibrated prior to use.
Electronic sensor modules 460,     1050 are calibrated using
docking station 1300.    In another optional step 2106, the
surgical instruments  180 and/or tray 160 and/or container
402  are wrapped in a sterile barrier material prior to
sterilization processing.
[000319]   At step 2108,  sensor module memory 471,    1022 is
programmed with validated sterilization process measurements
 (VSPM) data 1150 associated with the equipment load or
content ID 1610.   Container programming software 1461      (FIG.
17)  acting on docking station processor    1410  (FIG. 17)
identifies the specific VSPM 1150     associated with the
container equipment load, using the data obtained from step
2102,  and transmits the VSPM 1150 via the connector 485 for
                                104

storage on the sensor module memory 471,      1022.   As described
earlier, the transmitted VSPM 1150 are specific to the
equipment load   (content ID)  to be sterilized.     In another
embodiment, VSPM 1150    are transmitted via wireless means
from the docking station to the container memory for
storage.   In another embodiment, step 2108 confirms that the
current VSPM data residing in sensor memory is proper for
the container equipment load and transmitting of new VSPM
1150 from docking station to sensor memory is not performed.
This alternate embodiment may be used for sensor modules
that are repeatedly used for the same equipment load for
example sensor module 760 that      is mounted to a customized
instrument rack 720 or dedicated container assembly.
[000320]   In an additional   optional step at block 2110,
sterilization verification    software 1152 acting on processor
1020 turns on a yellow light emitting diode       (LED) of LEDS
1030  (also shown as yellow LED 233 in FIG. 3)      indicating to
a user that the container assembly has not yet been
processed through a sterilization process cycle.
[000321]   The container 402   is placed into the sterilization
chamber 52   (FIG. 1) at step 2112.     The container and its
contents are subjected to a sterilization process,
step 2114.    During the sterilization process, the chamber is
heated, pressurized and a sterilant, such as steam or
hydrogen peroxide vapor is    into the sterilization chamber.
By extension the environment inside the container is heated,
pressurized and/or flooded with sterilant.       The
sterilization process may include a cool down phase, drying
phase or drawing a vacuum on the chamber to remove any
residual condensed sterilant.       The sterilization chamber is
set to operate using a set of nominal chamber process
parameters   (CPP) 66  (FIG. 1).
                                 105

[000322]   During the sterilization process of step 2114,
sterilization verification  software 1152 acting on processor
1020 monitors and collects measurements from the respective
electronic sensors with which it is   in communication during
the sterilization process cycle.    The sensors measure the
characteristics of the environment in the container.    The
software 1152  running on processor  1020 receives the signals
representative of these environmental characteristics.
These measures are stored as data 1156 in memory 1022.
[000323]   After the sterilization process is complete,
software 1152,  in step 2116, compares the measurement data
1156 collected during the sterilization process, to the VSPM
data 1150.   At decision step 2118, sterilization
verification software 1152  acting on processor 1020
determines if the measurements data 1156 during the
performed sterilization process meets or exceeds the VSPM
data 1150 values within the VSPM data set to insure
sterilization of the container contents.    For example, if
VSPM 1150 has a minimum temperature and time value of 250
degrees Fahrenheit for 20 minutes, sterilization
verification software 1152  compares these values to the
recorded time and temperate measurement values in data 1156.
[000324]   The measured container characteristics may meet or
exceed the VSPM data 1150.   If this condition tests  true,
the process of this invention proceeds to step 2120 for
containers that  include closeable passages or vents.
Step 2120 is  the closing of the vent or passage.   It should
be understood that step 2120 is not executed immediately
after the evaluation of step 2118 determines that the
container environment met the requirements for a validated
sterilization process.   Instead, step 2120 is executed after
the programmed time period, or detection of the set trigger
event.   This is ensure that between the completion of the
                              106

actually sterilizing phases of the sterilization cycle and
the closing of the vent there is    sufficient time for the
residual sterilant to vent from the container.      For
containers that do not contain closeable passages, step 2120
is  of course, not executed.    Method 2100 proceeds to step
2122.
[000325]    Following the testing true evaluation of step
2118,  the process proceeds to step 2122.    In step 2122
processor   1020 indicates that the container contents were
successfully sterilized by turning on a green LED such as
LED 230   (FIG. 3)  or a green LED of LEDS 1030  (FIG. 12B) at
step 2122
[000326]    The evaluation of step 2118 testing false is
interpreted as indication that the contents of the container
have not been sterilized to the desired levels.      In response
to this determination being made, the processor proceeds to
a step 2126.    In step 2126 the processor 1020 presents an
indication the contents     of the container were not
successfully sterilized by turning on or flashing a red LED
such as LED 232    (FIG. 3) or a red LED of LEDS  1030  (FIG.
12B).   Not shown is the opening of the vent or port in
versions of the invention with a cap that is selectively
closed and open.
[000327]    The completion of step 2122 or step 2126    is the
end of a single sterilization cycle.
XVI. Determining A Validated Sterilization Process
Measurements
      For An Individual Container Load
[000328]    Figure 22 is  a  flowchart of a method 2200 for
determining a validated sterilization process measurements
 (VSPM) 1150  for a single, defined container load.     This
method can also be applied for determining a validated
                                107

disinfection process measurements with the primary
difference between sterilization and disinfection is     the
quantity of biological challenge organism reduction, that
being an organisms reduction of 10^6 for sterilization and
an organism reduction of 10^3 for disinfection.     Method 2200
is specifically discussed as being performed using container
assembly 400  (FIG. 7A) and sensor module 1050   (FIG. 12B).
However, any of the preceding container assemblies    90-800
and electronic sensor modules 200-3500 can be used to
perform method 2200.  The description of the method is
provided with general reference to the specific components
illustrated within the preceding figures.   In the discussion
of FIG. 22,  reference will also be made to components from
FIGS. 1-20.
[000329]  Method 2200 begins at step 2202 where an equipment
load of surgical instruments 180  is prepared for a
Sterilization Validation by an operator.   At step 2202, the
surgical equipment load is  selected and prepared to be
validated for a selected sterilization modality.     The
surgical equipment load includes all items inside of the
sterile barrier that are desired to be validated for
sterilization.   The equipment load may include surgical
instruments  180 and an instrument tray or rack 160 when
desired. Step 2202 may further include the placement of the
surgical equipment load into container 402.    At step 2202,
all contents of the container that make up the equipment
load are documented.   Documentation can include a written
bill of materials, an electronic bill of material,
descriptions and part numbers of the contents, photographs
taken of the contents or a combination of these types of
documentation.   The documented equipment load can be
assigned a content ID 1610  as described in figure 19.     In
another embodiment, Step 2202 also includes the placement of
                              108

a biological challenge or inoculation of the equipment with
biological challenge microorganisms in accordance with
standard practices for sterilization assurance level
validation or disinfection validation.     One standard
practice for inoculation of the equipment with
microorganisms for steam sterilization can be found in
ANSI/AAMI/ISO TIR17665-2:2009, Sterilization of health care
products-Moist heat-Part 2:   Guidance on the application of
ANSI/AAMI/ISO 17665-1.    Step 2202 includes completing the
sterile barrier for the container which may be wrapping the
container in a sterile barrier material, installing new
filters,   setting the container vents appropriately or other
appropriate methods of completing the sterile barrier for
the container, sterile barrier type and sterilization
modality.    For container assembly 400,  installing new
filters  440  and latching the lid assembly 450 to seal with
container 402   completes the sterile barrier.
[000330]   Also at step 2202, data recording software 1155
stored on memory 471,   1022 is triggered to operate on
processor  1020.   Data recording software 1155 monitors and
records evaluation process measurements, as measured by the
sensor module, during a test sterilization process cycle for
storage on the sensor module memory 471,    1022.
[000331]   The container 402  is placed into the sterilization
chamber 52   (FIG. 1) and the test sterilization process cycle
within sterilization chamber 52    is started (step 2204).  The
sterilization chamber is typically set to operate using a
set of nominal chamber test process parameters.     During the
test sterilization process cycle, the sterilization chamber
is heated, pressurized and a sterilant, such as steam or
hydrogen peroxide vapor is   introduced into the sterilization
chamber.   The sterilization process cycle typically includes
                               109

a cool down phase or an evacuation phase to remove any
residual and/or condensed sterilant.
[000332]   Also, at step 2204, data recording software 1155
acting on processor  1020 monitors and collects measurement
data from the respective electronic sensors with which it is
in communication during the test sterilization process.     The
sensors  record the evaluation process measurements and
conditions within the sterile barrier.    The collected
measurement data is stored in memory 1022   as data 1156.   For
example, data recording software 1155 acting on processor
1020 collects water vapor data from water vapor sensor 1024,
pressure data from pressure sensor 1026, temperature data
from temperature sensor 1028  and hydrogen peroxide
concentration data from hydrogen peroxide gas   sensor 1052.
In some embodiments, these data are simultaneously tracked
and recorded as a function of time so as to capture the
evaluation process measurements experienced inside of the
sterile barrier on a time basis.
[000333]   At step 2206, container 402  is removed from the
sterilization chamber 52 and the equipment load is evaluated
for the level of sterilization achieved.    In one embodiment,
an operator incubates and reads   the biological challenge  (or
inoculated microorganisms) and determines if the survival
rate of the microorganisms is below a pre-determined desired
level.   In another embodiment, a 0%  survival rate of the
microorganisms indicate that the evaluation process
measurements  are adequate to insure destruction of all
pathogens during sterilization processing.
[000334]   If the level of sterilization is  not acceptable,
the operator can modify the equipment load, the nominal
sterilization process parameters or the sterile barrier.
The operator can modify one or more of these items,   or any
other controllable items that can affect the test
                              110

sterilization process results.      For example, the
modification of chamber   (52) process parameters can include
increasing one or more process parameters of the
sterilization chamber 52.    In one embodiment, the
temperatures level and the lethal portion of the test
sterilization process time are increased in step 2208.      In
another embodiment, step 2208 includes modifying the
contents of container 402.    For example,  fewer surgical
instruments  180 are placed inside the sterile barrier.
Method 2200 then returns to step 2202 where the container
402 and equipment load is re-processed in sterilization
chamber 52 repeating the steps until a desired level of
sterilization is  achieved at step 2206.
[000335]   In response the sterilization level of the
equipment load being acceptable, the recorded sensor
measurements  are collected from sensor module memory 1022
and the measurements become validated sterilization process
measurements  (VSPM) associated to the equipment load.     VSPM
1150 are based on the received evaluation measurement data
1156 that were functionally confirmed to act on the
contaminants within the equipment load wherein the
evaluation measurements become validated measurements.      In
one embodiment, process measurement validation software 1466
acting on docking station processor 1410 reads     the recorded
evaluation measurement data 1156 from sensor module memory
1022 and stores the data on docking station memory 1412 at
step 2210.   Also in this embodiment at step 2210, an
operator uses the evaluation measurement data 1156 recorded
by the sensor module to determine and generate values for
validated sterilization process measurements     (VSPM) 1150.
After the VSPM 1150 are determined, the operator inputs VSPM
1150 to docking station 1200,    1300 and directs VSPM 1150   to
be stored to memory 1412.
                               111

[000336]  In another embodiment, process measurement
validation software 1466 acting on docking station processor
1410 automatically generates VSPM 1150 from evaluation
measurement data 1156 and stores the data on docking station
memory 1412 at step 2210.  In all embodiments, correlation
of the equipment load to the VSPM completes process step
2210 for the desired level of sterilization.
[000337]  In an optional step 2212, the operator establishes
measurement limits for VSPM 1150.   Measurement limits could
include upper and lower limit values for one or more sensor
reading included in VSPM 1150 data set.   Reading limits
could include only an upper or only a lower limit.   For
example, in one embodiment, an operator can determine that a
minimum or lower time limit experienced during the test
sterilization processing is 20 minutes and a maximum or
upper time limit is 40 minutes.   In another embodiment, an
operator can determine that a lower temperature limit
experienced during the test sterilization process is 2700
Fahrenheit.  After the measurement limits are determined in
this optional step, the operator sets the measurement limits
for VSPM 1150 and directs the measurement limits to be
stored to memory 1412.  Optional step 2212 is completed when
the measurement limits for VSPM 1150 are correlated to the
equipment load for the desired sterilization level.   Method
2200 then ends.
[000338]  It should be understood that the definition of
determining what constitutes whether or not a load of
instruments was successfully sterilized in step 2206 is a
function of the acceptable degree of sterilization for the
instruments.  Some instruments are considered adequately
sterilized if they are only subjected to disinfection.
Disinfection it is understood has a lower sterility
assurance level than sterilization.   Thus method 2200 as
                             112

well as the sterilization process and equipment of this
invention can be used to provide instruments that are
sterile but not as sterile as typically required for
instruments  applied to tissue below the skin.
[000339]   Once a set of validated sterilization process
measurements  are generated for a container load, these
measurements  are used to determine whether or not the load
was sterilized even if the load was placed in a container
different from the container used to generate the VSPM for
the load.   This is because changing form of the sterile
barrier  (the container) that surrounds the load essentially
only changes the rate at which the environment around the
load changes during the sterilization process.
[000340]   For example, when the only difference between two
containers  is their porosities,  the key difference in the
environmental characteristics in the containers will be the
rate at which these characteristics change.    Thus, when
sterilant is  introduced into both containers, the
concentration of the sterilant in the more porous container
will rise at a faster rate than the concentration in the
less porous  container.  Thus when the same load is  subjected
to sterilization process in the two different containers,
the primary difference will be the time it takes for the
concentration of sterilant adjacent the instruments   forming
the load to reach the desired, the validated levels.    As
long as the concentration of sterilant is   at the validated
concentration level for the validated time period, the
instruments  forming the load will reach the desired
sterility level.
[000341]   This feature of the invention frees the hospital
from having to sterilize a specific load of instrument by
always placing those instruments in a specific container.
If a container a designed for a set of instruments   is not
                              113

available for use,   the instruments can be placed in an
alternate container.    It is only necessary that sensing unit
integral with this container be able to     (1) measure the
characteristics internal to the container and      (2) compare
the measured environmental characteristics to the VSPM for
the load.    When these conditions are met, the alternative
container can hold instruments during sterilization and its
sensing unit will provide an indication regarding whether or
not the instruments were successfully sterilized.
XVII. Operational Method to Validate And Correlate
      Validated Sterilization Process Measurements
[000342]   Referring to FIG. 23,   a flowchart of another
method 2300 of determining, correlating and validating
sterilization process measurements    (VSPM) 1150   is shown.
Method 2300 is discussed as being performed using container
assembly 400   (FIG. 7A) and sensor module 1050    (FIG. 12B).
However, any of the preceding container assemblies      90-800
and electronic sensor modules 200-1080 can be used to
perform method 2300.   The description of the method is
provided with general reference to the specific components
illustrated within the preceding figures.      In the discussion
of FIG. 23,   reference will also be made to components from
FIGS.  1-20.
[000343]   Method 2300 describes   the steps for an operator to
validate and equipment load through a Sterilization
Assurance Level Validation.    At step 2302, the surgical
equipment load is   selected and prepared to be validated for
a selected sterilization modality for example steam,
chemical or hydrogen peroxide.     The surgical equipment load
includes all items inside of the sterile barrier that is
desired to be validated for sterilization.      Step 2302
includes the positioning of container 402     onto docking
                               114

station 1200  or 1300 and if the container has a connector,
connecting the corresponding connector 485,    1032 to the
docking station.    At step 2302,  all contents of the
container that make up the equipment load are documented.
Documentation can include a written bill of materials, an
electronic bill of material, descriptions and part numbers
of the contents, photographs taken of the contents or a
combination of these types   of documentation.   At step 2302,
handheld reader 1240 can be used to scan container 402, tray
160 and the surgical instruments 180    to aid in the
documentation of the equipment load.
[000344]   At step 2304,  a biological challenge device,
biological  indicator or a microorganism inoculation process
is used to create a biological challenge    for Sterilization
Assurance Level Validation. These biological devices or
processes include a known number of microorganisms that have
a resistance to the mode of sterilization in use.      These
biological  loads are used to determine if the proper
sterilization level with a test sterilization process has
been achieved for a given equipment load.
[000345]   At step 2306, the equipment load is placed into
container 402   that contains electronic sensor module 460   and
is enclosed with cover 450   assembly including appropriate
sterile barrier filters 440.    At step 2308, data recording
software 1155 stored on memory 471,    1022 is triggered to
operate on processor 1020.    Process measurement validation
software 1466   (FIG. 17) acting on docking station processor
1410  (FIG. 17)  transmits instructions for data recording
software 1155 to monitor and record process measurements
during a test sterilization process cycle for storage on the
sensor module memory 471,   1022.   Data recording software
1155 acting on processor   1020 monitors and records the
process measurements during the test sterilization process
                               115

cycle. At optional step 2310, the sterile barrier
appropriate for the type of container and sterilization
process is completed prior to placing the container into the
sterilizer chamber 52.
[000346]   The container 402  is placed into the sterilization
chamber 52   (FIG. 1) and the test sterilization process cycle
within sterilization chamber 52    is started (step 2312).
During the sterilization process cycle, the sterilization
chamber is heated, pressurized and a sterilant, such as
steam or hydrogen peroxide vapor are introduced into the
sterilization chamber.    The sterilization process cycle
typically includes a cool down phase and drawing a vacuum on
the chamber to remove any residual     and/or condensed
sterilant.    The sterilization chamber is  set to operate
using a nominal set of test process parameters.
[000347]   Also, at step 2312, software 1155 monitors and
collects time based data from the respective electronic
sensors with which it is in communication during the
sterilization process cycle.    The sensors measure the
environmental characteristics inside the sterile barrier.
The collected measurements   are stored as data 1156.   For
example, data recording software 1155 acting on processor
1020 collects water vapor or humidity data from humidity
sensor 1024, pressure data from pressure sensor 1026,
temperature data from temperature sensor 1028 and hydrogen
peroxide concentration data from hydrogen peroxide vapor
sensor 1052.    Measurement data can be stored into memory
1022 until transferred to docking station memory at step
2320.
[000348]   After the test sterilization process is complete,
the in step 2314 the appropriate tests are executed to
determine whether or not the instruments    forming the load
                               116

are sterile to the acceptable level.    The means by which
theses are performed are not part of the invention.
[000349]   At decision step 2316, an operator determines the
results of the test of step 2314 indicate whether or not the
instruments  forming the load were acceptably sterilized.     If
the evaluation of step 2316 tests false, the instruments    are
subjected to a subsequent test   sterilization process,
steps 2306-2312 are reelected.    the subsequent sterilization
process is,  prior to the execution of this process, in a
step 2318,  modified so there is  at least one difference
between the just executed test   sterilization process and the
subsequent test  sterilization process.   This modification to
the sterilization process can include increasing one or more
process parameters of the sterilization chamber 52.     In one
embodiment, the temperature level or the process cycle time
are increased in step 2318.   In another embodiment, step
2318 includes modifying the contents of container 402.     For
example, fewer surgical instruments   180 are use for the
equipment load or a different type of sterile barrier design
can be used.
[000350]   After the execution of the subsequent
sterilization process, the instrument load is    subjected to
the previously described, sterilization testing, step 2314.
Step 2316 is  reexcuted to determine whether or not the
results of the test indicate that the instruments forming
the container load were successfully sterilized.
[000351]   After a sterilization process, the results of the
evaluation of step 2316 can test true.    When this event
occurs,  the operator designates the data 1156 recorded by
the sensors  to determine values as the validated
sterilization process measurements   (VSPM) 1150  for the load.
The VSPM 1150  data are associated to the load in step 2302.
After the VSPM 1150 are determined, the operator inputs VSPM
                              117

1150 and associated equipment load to docking station 1200,
1300 using keyboard 1426 or an electronic data transfer
method and directs VSPM 1150                       to be stored to memory 1412                     in
association with the equipment load.
 [000352]           In another embodiment, process measurement
validation software 1466 acting on docking station processor
1410 automatically generates VSPM 1150                             from real time
measurement data and stores the data on docking station
memory 1412            at step 2322.           In all embodiments, correlation of
the equipment load to the VSPM completes process step 2322
for the desired level of sterilization.
 [000353]           In an      optional       step 2324,        the operator             establishes
measurement              limits        for     VSPM      1150.          Measurement            limits
include          upper        and/or       lower    limit      values        for      one    or   more
process          measurements             to   be    included       in      VSPM        1150.       For
example,          in one embodiment, an operator                      can determine that               a
minimum            or      lower        temperature           limit        for       the      desired
sterilization               level      is    270'F     for    the    first        2    minutes      and
another           minimum          temperature        limit      272'F        for      the    next     3
minutes.             The     determination          of   process       limits        is    performed
using        data     collected         from one       or more      sterilization             process
validation               cycles          each      with        different            sterilization
processing            measurements           and   conditions.             After        the   process
measurement             limits        are    determined,         the      operator          sets    the
process measurement                   limits     for VSPM 1150          and correlates            them
to the          equipment load using keyboard 1426 or electronic data
transfer           and     directs        the   process       measurement           limits      to   be
stored to memory 1412. Additionally,                             the correlation of VSPM
data        set     to    the      equipment      load     is    stored        to    memory      1412.
Method 2300 then ends.
                                                   118

XVIII. Operational Method To Determine And
        Correlate Validated Sterilization
        Process Measurement Using Overkill Methods.
[000354]   Referring to FIG. 24,   a flowchart of an additional
method 2400 of determining and correlating validated
sterilization process measurements     (VSPM) 1150  is shown.
Method 2400 is discussed as being performed using container
assembly 400   (FIG. 7A) and sensor module 1050    (FIG. 12B).
However, any of the preceding container assemblies      90-800
and electronic sensor modules 200-1080 can be used to
perform method 2400.   The description of the method is
provided with general reference to the specific components
illustrated within the preceding figures.      In the discussion
of FIG. 24,  reference will also be made to components from
FIGS.  1-20.
[000355]   Method 2400 starts at step 2402 where the
equipment load of surgical instruments 180     is  selected for
sterilization.    The equipment load is   defined as all items
inside of the sterile barrier which can include not only the
surgical instruments   180 but also an instrument rack 160
when present.    Instrument racks  can aid in affecting
sterilization by positioning instruments with difficult to
reach locations in preferential    orientations for the
steriliant to penetrate and perform sterilization.        At step
2404, a biological test device or biological challenge
organisms are placed within the equipment load typically at
a difficult to sterilize location(s).      For example, if the
equipment load has a instrument with a small diameter and a
long closed end lumen, a biological challenge can be placed
into the hardest to reach location at the closed end.       The
biological challenge   is processed through the test
sterilization process cycle along with the surgical
instruments.
                               119

[000356]   The biological challenge carries a biological
agent.   During a successful sterilization process cycle, the
biological agent is typically killed.    The biological
challenge includes a known number of microorganisms that
have a know resistance to the mode of sterilization in use.
For validation of a disinfection process, a minimum of 3 log
reduction in the number of surviving microorganisms is
required.   For a biological challenge starting with 10^6
organisms, a 3 log reduction would result in at least 10^3
organisms killed.   For validation of a sterilization process
for an equipment load, a minimum of 6 log reduction in the
number of surviving microorganisms is   required.
[000357]   In an optional step 2405, an operator documents
the type of biological challenge used and the location of
the biological challenge within the equipment load.      The
operator may enter this information into the docking station
using keyboard 1426 or electronic data transfer    (i.e.
importing scans or documents).    In another embodiment, step
2405 includes using a camera to take a picture of the
biological challenge  locations on the equipment load in
container 402  and saving the image captured to docking
station memory 1412.
[000358]   The equipment load is documented and then is
placed into container 402 that contains electronic sensor
module 460 and is  enclosed with cover 450,  completing the
sterile barrier at step 2406.    To document the equipment
load, the operator inputs the type and quantity of surgical
instruments,  the type of tray and other items within the
sterile barrier.   Container 402  is placed on docking station
1200 or 1300  and connected to the docking station using
connector 485.
[000359]   In another optional step 2407, the operator
documents the equipment load of surgical instruments to be
                              120

sterilized and the location of the sensors within container
402 with a photograph.      The photograph can capture the
equipment load, the orientation of the instruments and
equipment within the load and the type and location of the
sensors within the container.        Step 2407  includes using a
camera to take a picture of the contents and sensors within
container 402    and saving the image captured to docking
station memory 1412.
[000360]   At step 2408,    data recording software 1155 stored
on memory 471,    1022 is  triggered to operate on processor
1020.   Process measurement validation software 1466        (FIG.
17)  acting on docking station processor       1410 (FIG. 17)
transmits instructions for data recording software 1155 to
monitor and record process measurements during a test
sterilization process cycle for storage on the sensor module
memory 471,    1022.  Data recording software 1155 acting on
processor   1020 monitors and records the process measurements
during the test    sterilization process cycle.
[000361]    The container 402    is placed into the sterilization
chamber 52 by an operator      (FIG. 1) and the test
sterilization process cycle within sterilization chamber 52
is  started   (step 2412).   The test sterilization process
cycle at step 2412 is performed using a one-half test
sterilization process within the sterilization chamber 52.
For example, a one-half test sterilization process for a
standard 4 minute autoclave steam cycle at 270'F would be a
2 minute autoclave steam cycle at 270'F.         In another
example, a one-half test sterilization cycle for Hydrogen
Peroxide 4 pulse cycle would be a 2 pulse cycle.          During
the sterilization process cycle, the sterilization chamber
52  is heated, pressurized and a sterilant, such as steam or
hydrogen peroxide vapor is      introduced into the sterilization
                                  121

chamber according to the half lethal  chamber process
parameter values.
[000362]  Also, at step 2412, data recording software 1155
acting on processor  1020 monitors and collects time based
data from the respective electronic sensors with which it is
in communication during the sterilization process cycle.
The sensors monitor the operating process measurements and
conditions within the respective container they are mounted.
The collected time based measurement data are stored in
memory 1022  as data 1156.  For example, data recording
software 1155 acting on processor 1020  collects humidity
data from humidity sensor 1024, pressure data from pressure
sensor 1026,  temperature data from temperature sensor 1028
and hydrogen peroxide concentration data from hydrogen
peroxide gas sensor 1052.   These measurements are typically
taken simultaneously as a function of time.
[000363]  After the one-half test sterilization process is
completed, the biological challenge  is extracted, placed in
a growth medium and cultivated for a period of time and then
analyzed for microorganism growth.   A level of microorganism
survival is determined in step 2414.   In one embodiment,
step 2414 includes determining if a greater than a 6 log
reduction in the number of surviving microorganisms has
occurred.
[000364]  At step 2416, an operator determines if 100
percent or the desired quantity of the biological challenge
microorganisms have been killed.   In response to not all of
the microorganisms being killed in step 2414,   (i.e. some
quantity survived and the level of sterilization is not
acceptable),  the set of test chamber process parameters can
be modified at step 2418 by an operator.   The modification
of test chamber process measurements  can include increasing
one or more process parameters of the sterilization chamber
                              122

52.   In one embodiment, the temperature level or the process
cycle time are increased in step 2418.     In another
embodiment, step 2418 includes modifying the contents of
container 402.   For example, fewer surgical instruments    180
are placed in tray 160   or a different type of sterile
barrier material can be used.
[000365]   A new biological challenge is placed within the
load and method 2400 returns to step 2404 as shown in figure
24, where the container 402   is re-processed in sterilization
chamber 52 using the new one-half test sterilization chamber
process.
[000366]   In response to all of the microorganisms being
killed in step 2414,   (i.e. zero percent survival),   container
402 is placed on docking station 1200,   1300  and the docking
station is connected to container connector 485.      Process
measurement validation software 1466 acting on docking
station processor 1410   reads the recorded measurement data
from container memory 1022   and stores the data 1156 on
docking station memory 1412   at step 2420.
[000367]   At step 2422,  an operator uses the data 1156
recorded by the sensors and correlates it to the equipment
load and level of sterilization.    This correlation is based
on the received measurement data that were functionally
confirmed to act on the biological challenge resulting in
the desired level of sterilization.
[000368]   In another embodiment, process measurement
validation software 1466 acting on processor    1410
automatically generates one-half test sterilization values
from the time based measurement data.
[000369]   At step 2424,  the lethal portion of the test
sterilization process cycle is doubled to generate VSPM
1150.   As shown in the previous examples,   for an autoclave
steam cycle at 270OF the test cycle time above 270OF portion
                               123

of the test sterilization process cycle would be doubled. In
another example, the lethal portion of the one-half test
sterilization cycle for Hydrogen Peroxide, namely the number
of hydrogen peroxide pulses, would be doubled from 2 pulses
to 4 pulses.           VSPM 1150      could be generated by process
measurement validation software 1466.                        Process measurement
validation software 1466 acting on processor                            1410 increases
the lethal portion of the test process operating time by a
factor of two.              In an example embodiment, if all of the
biological organisms are killed after a lethal process cycle
time of 20 minutes, the process cycle time is                            increased to
40 minutes by process measurement validation software 1466.
The new VSPM 1150 with the increased cycle time is then
stored to memory 1412. After the VSPM 1150                           are determined,
the operator inputs VSPM 1150 and correlated equipment load
to docking station 1200,               1300 using keyboard 1426 or an
electronic data transfer method and directs VSPM 1150                                to be
stored to memory 1412              in association with the equipment
load.
 [000370]         In an     optional    step 2426,       the operator          establishes
process         limits    for VSPM     1150.      Process       limits     could    include
upper         and/or    lower     limit    values      for     one     or    more   process
measurements          included      in    VSPM    1150.        For     example,      in   one
embodiment,          an     operator     can    determine         that     a   minimum     or
lower            hydrogen        peroxide         concentration               limit       for
sterilization           processing      is    8  mg/L     and     a   maximum     or    upper
hydrogen          peroxide      concentration        limit        is    10    mg/L.       The
determination           of    process      limits     could       be    performed       using
data        collected       from   multiple      sterilization           process      cycles
each        with    different      sterilization         processing           measurements
and      conditions.          After    the   process       limits       are    determined,
the      operator      sets     the   process     limits       for     VSPM     1150    using
keyboard 1426 or             the process measurement validation                    software
                                             124

1466  transfers        and  directs     the  process     limits     to   be   stored
to  memory       1412.     Additionally,      the  correlation         of   VSPM     to
the  equipment        load  is     stored  to  memory      1412.      Method      2400
then ends.
XIX. Operational Method of Monitoring
      Sterility of Container Contents
[000371]       Referring to FIG. 25 a flowchart of a method 2500
of monitoring sterility of the contents of container is
illustrated.        Method 2500       is particularly described as being
performed using container assembly 400                (FIG. 7A).        However,
method 2500 can be utilized with any of the previously
described container assemblies.               The description of the
method is provided with general reference to the specific
components       illustrated within the preceding figures.                   In the
discussion of FIG. 25,            reference will also be made to
components       from FIGS.     7A-7D, and 14 and sensor modules 200,
[000372]       Method 2500 starts at step 2502 where sterile
monitor software 1158           acting on processor 1020 monitors the
electrical signals transmitted from Hall effect sensors                          480.
At step 2504,       sterile monitor software 1158               determines if
the Hall effect sensor signal has changed to indicate that
the magnetic field is no longer detected.
[000373]        In response to no change in the Hall effect sensor
signal,    sterile monitor software 1158            acting on processor
1020 continues to monitor the electrical signals transmitted
from Hall effect sensors 480              (step 2502).       In response to a
change in or loss of the Hall effect sensor signal,                       sterile
monitor software 1158           acting on processor 1020           causes the
green LED of LEDS 487           to turn off and causes the red LED of
LEDS 487     to be illuminated at step 2506 indicating the
container latch was changed potentially allowing a breach to
                                         125

sterilization inside container.     The Hall effect sensor
signal  changes with latch 446 movement or cover 450 movement
like lifting away from container 402    or is  removed from
container 402.   When the magnets 448   are moved away from
Hall effect sensors 480  causing a loss of magnetic field to
sensors  480.  The lighting of the red LED indicates that the
contents of container 402,   such as surgical instruments     180,
are at an increased risk of a sterile breach or are no
longer sterile.   Method 2500 then terminates.
XX.   Operational Method Of Loading
      Surgical Instruments  Into A Container
[000374]   Referring to FIG. 26 a flowchart of a method 2600
of loading surgical instruments    into a container prior to
sterilization processing is   shown.   Method 2600 is explained
as being performed using container assembly 100      (FIGS. 2-4C)
and docking station 1200   (FIG. 15).   However, method 2500
can be utilized with any of the described container
assemblies with sensor modules or docking stations.       The
description of the method is provided with general reference
to the specific components   illustrated within the preceding
figures.   In the discussion of FIG. 26,   reference will also
be made to components  from FIGS. 2-4C, 15    and 17.
[000375]   Method 2600 begins at step 2602 where an operator
positions container 100 to rest on docking station shelf
1212.   In an optional step, electronic sensor module 200 is
connected to docking station 1200    for communication via
cable 146.
[000376]   At step 2604, the operator scans the bar code or
RFID tag 135  on container 100 and the bar code or RFID tag
167 on tray 160 using handheld reader 1240.      At step 2606,
container loading software 1464    acting on processor 1410,
searches container/tray configuration data 1465,      selects  a
                               126

display screen 1260 from data 1465 corresponding to the
respective scanned bar codes and RFID tags and causes the
display screen 1260 to be shown on display 1230.       The
display screen 1260 illustrates    the surgical instruments     180
to be loaded into tray 160   and the correct position and
orientation of the surgical instruments     180 to be loaded.
[000377]   The operator scans a first surgical instrument bar
code or RFID tag 181 at step 2608 using handheld reader
1240.   At decision step 2610, container loading software
1464 acting on processor   1410, determines if the scanned
surgical instrument  180 is  a correct surgical instrument to
be loaded into tray 160 using container/tray data 1465.
[000378]   In response to the scanned surgical instrument 180
being incorrect to load into tray 160,     container loading
software 1464  acting on processor 1410,    indicates that the
wrong surgical instrument has been selected for loading by
changing the video screen 1260 at step 2612.       In one
embodiment, a red warning sign is flashed on display 1230
and an alarm sounded instructing the operator that they have
selected an incorrect instrument.     Method 2600 then returns
to step 2608 where the next surgical instrument 180       to be
loaded is scanned by the operator.
[000379]   In response to the scanned surgical instrument 180
in step 2608 being correct to load into tray 160,      the
operator places the surgical instrument     180 into tray 160
with reference to the position and orientation information
illustrated on display screen 1260     (step 2614).    Display
screen 1260 guides the operator during placement of surgical
instruments  into tray 160.
[000380]   While not shown as a separate step, the container
loading software 1464  running on processor 1410     determines
if the tray 160  is fully loaded with surgical instruments
180.   If this evaluation tests negative, the operator in a
                               127

reexcution of step 2608 scans the next instrument       180 to be
loaded.   When the evaluation determines the tray is      full the
processor  1410 at step 2618 causes a display screen 1260      to
indicate all of the surgical instruments are loaded into
tray 160 and that container 100     is ready for further
processing.
[000381]   At step 2616, container loading software 1464
acting on processor   1410, transmits container/tray data 1465
to hospital   computer system 1454   to update database 1456
with the current location and status      of the loaded
container, tray and surgical instruments.        In an example
embodiment, container/tray data 1465 updates database 1456
with the location of container 100,      the specific surgical
instruments   180 contained in tray 160    and that the container
and contents are currently not     sterile.
XXI. Operational Method of Calibrating Sensors
[000382]   Referring to FIG. 27,    a flowchart of a method 2700
of calibrating sensors    or verifying sensor accuracy and
electronic sensor modules is shown.       Calibration and sensor
accuracy verification    is used to check    (verify) and/or
adjust  (calibration) the sensor response to a known set of
simulated or generated environment conditions.        Calibration
and sensor accuracy verification methods are used to insure
sensor measurements are accurate when used to generate VSPM
data or verify VSPM data with sensor modules.        Method 2700
is  explained as being performed using container assembly 400
 (FIGS. 7A-7C),  sensor module 1050    (FIGS. 12B,  14) and
docking station 1300    (FIGS. 16,  17).   However, method 2700
can be utilized with any of the sensor modules described
herein.   The description of the method is provided with
general reference to the specific components illustrated
within the preceding figures.
                                128

[000383]   Method 2700 begins at step 2702 where an operator
positions container assembly 400  to rest on docking station
shelf 1342 or into calibration chamber 1320   and connects
docking station cable 1340  to container connector 485.    The
operator also connects docking station connectors    1336 and
1338 together such that docking station 1300 is   in
communication with container assembly 400   for sensor
calibration.   More specifically, docking station controller
1402 is  in communication with electronic sensor module
controller 1120.
[000384]   At step 2704, sensor calibration software 1460
acting on processor  1410, causes a display screen 1260 to be
shown on display 1230.   If the sensor module has sensors
that require calibration or require sensor performance
verification, the display screen 1260   illustrates the
container 402  and sensors to be calibrated and operator
instructions to affect a proper calibration or sensor
verification.   If not already positioned, the operator
places  container assembly 400 into calibration chamber 1320
and closes door 1326.
[000385]   For example at step 2708,  sensor calibration
software 1460  acting on processor 1410,  causes calibration
chamber 1320  and electronic sensor module 1050  to execute a
sensor calibration process or sensor verification cycle.
Depending on the type of sensors  that require calibration or
verification, various  systems within the docking station are
be used independently or in combination to calibrate or
verify sensor accuracy.   Sensor calibration process at step
2708 may include turning on and operating steam generator
1430, hydrogen peroxide generator 1432, pressure pump 1434,
vacuum pump 1436 and heater 1438.    Steam generator 1430,
hydrogen peroxide generator 1432, pressure pump 1434, vacuum
pump 1436 and heater 1438 all operate according to a pre
                              129

defined set of calibration operating parameters generated by
sensor calibration software 1460  acting on processor 1410
and transmitted via input/output interface circuit 1414.
[000386]   During the sensor calibration cycle at step 2708,
steam generator 1430  supplies a standard concentration of
steam to calibration chamber 1320  and hydrogen peroxide
generator 1432 supplies a standard concentration of hydrogen
peroxide gas to calibration chamber 1320.   Pressure pump
1434 increases the pressure in calibration chamber 1320 to a
standard pressure during the first part of the calibration
cycle. Vacuum pump 1436 draws a standard vacuum level in
calibration chamber 1320 during the later part of the
calibration cycle.   Heater 1438 heats calibration chamber
1320 to a pre-determined standard temperature.   One or more
states  of each generator system can be generated in order to
affect a known single point, two point or multiple point
parameter state to calibrate or verify the sensor response.
[000387]   In another embodiment at step 2708, sensor
calibration software 1460 acting on processor 1410,   triggers
sensor calibration software 1154  acting on processor 1020  to
operate one or more generator systems  to calibrate water
vapor sensor 1024, pressure sensor 1026, temperature sensor
1028 and hydrogen peroxide sensor 1052.
[000388]   At step 2710, sensor calibration software 1460
acting on processor  1410, queries and receives feedback from
calibration software 1154 acting on processor 1020 as to the
success  or failure of the calibration process on each
sensor.   Calibration software 1460 acting on processor  1410,
determines if all of the sensors have been correctly
calibrated or verified to the within specified accuracy.
[000389]   In response to one or more of the sensors  1024
1052 not being correctly calibrated to the specified
calibration measurements, the specific sensor(s) are
                              130

identified and flagged for inspection and repair at step
2714.   Calibration software 1460    acting on processor 1410,
causes a display screen 1260     to be shown on docking station
1300 indicating the defective sensor(s).       In another
embodiment, calibration software can instruct sensor module
to provide a visual indication, for example using flashing
LEDs, to the operator that a calibration failure occurred.
Method 2700 then ends.
[000390]    In response to the sensors    1024-1052 being
correctly calibrated and/or verified to the specified
measurements, the sensors are indicated as being
successfully calibrated at step 2712.       Calibration software
1460 acting on processor    1410, causes a display screen 1260
to be shown on docking station 1300      indicating that all of
the sensors   1024-1052 in container assembly 400 have been
correctly calibrated or verified and are ready to be used in
their appropriate sterilization process.       Method 2700 then
terminates.
[000391]    In alternative versions of the invention, sensor
calibration software 1460    is set to require the calibration
of the sensors based on the number of times the sensors are
used.
XXII. Method of Monitoring      Container Usage
       And Billing on a Fee Per Use Basis
[000392]    Turning to FIG. 28,   a flowchart of a method 2800
of monitoring container usage and billing on a fee per use
basis  is shown.   Method 2800 is explained as being performed
using docking station 1200     (FIG. 18),  manufacturer computer
system 1510   (FIG. 18)  and hospital computer system 1454
 (FIG. 18).   Method 2800 is used with any of the previously
described containers    90-800.   Method 2800 is described with
reference to FIG. 18 and FIG. 28.
                                 131

[000393]   Method 2800 begins at step 2802 where usage
software 1470   operating on processor 1410 monitors and
tracks the usage of containers or sensor modules within a
medical facility.     When docking station 1200 is used during
container loading and/or sensor programming typically prior
to sterilization, usage software 1470        tracks the frequency
of use of the containers or sensors, generates usage data
1472 and stores the usage data to memory 1412.           In another
embodiment, usage software 1472       reads the sensor module
memory and extracts usage data for processing.           In yet
another embodiment, usage software 1472 clears or resets
usage data in sensor module memory.         Usage software 1470
operating on processor 1410 periodically transmits usage
data 1472 to manufacturer computer system 1510          at step 2804.
In one embodiment, usage data 1410 is        transmitted on a
weekly basis from docking station 1200        to manufacturer
computer system 1510.
[000394]   At step 2806, invoice software 1530 acting on
manufacturer computer system processor 1520 periodically
generates invoices 1532 based on usage data 1472.           The
invoices are stored to memory 1522.         Invoice software 1530
operating on processor 1520 periodically transmits          invoices
1532 to hospital    computer system 1454     at step 2808.    In one
embodiment, invoices 1532 are generated and transmitted on a
weekly basis from manufacturer computer system 1510          to
hospital computer system 1454.        At step 2810, hospital
computer system 1454 receives invoices 1532         and stores the
invoices to memory 1572      for payment processing.      Method 2800
then ends.
[000395]   Method 2800    is  used in conjunction with a business
model   where    docking     station    1200,    sensor   modules    or
containers   90-800  are leased or rented to a medical facility
or  hospital.     The   medical   facility    or  hospital   pays   for
                                  132

using the docking stations, sensor modules and containers                                   on
a fee per use basis           as determined by usage software                     1470     and
invoice software 1530.
XXIII. Container with Removable Sensors
 [000396]      FIGS.     29-39    illustrate           a    container     assembly       2900
with removable          sensors.       With specific reference                 to FIGS.     29
and 30,     container assembly 2900                 comprises container 2902               and
a      removable       sensor     apparatus            3000.        Removable        sensor
apparatus        3000    is   described          below        including       an  optional
embodiment        that    contains        a   tamper        evident   sterile      barrier
monitoring       system.       This      optional        embodiment     temper     evident
sterile     barrier      monitoring          system      is    described      below    using
one     or more      magnets   and     hall     effect       sensors.        Other   tamper
evident      systems,       like    breakable          plastic     mechanical        locks,
can be used to notify operators that                         the sterile barrier has
been     tampered      with   and     these       other      tamper   evident      systems
can be combined with removable                   sensor apparatus 3000.
 [000397]      Container 2902 of FIGS. 29 and 30 is                       the same as
the previously described container 402                         of FIG. 7A except
that rectangular shaped openings 414                        and 418 in side panel
406 have been omitted and a circular shaped opening 415 has
been added in side panel 406.                    Cover 450 of FIGS. 29 and 30
is    the same as the previously described cover 450 of FIG. 7A
except that magnet 488 has been removed from cover 450 and
mounted to the interior facing surface of container lid
latch 496       (see FIG. 41).           Cover 450        includes disposable
filters     440     that are retained to cover 450 by filter support
members 442.
 [000398]      Filters 440       are formed from a microbial barrier
material that is permeable to sterilant.                          Filter 440      allows
sterilant to pass from the outside of cover 450,                              through
holes 459, through filter 440, through apertures 445 and
                                              133

into interior cavity 420 of container 2902 where the
sterilant contacts surgical instruments contained therein.
Filters 440  also form a microbial barrier preventing
microorganisms from entering into container assembly 2900
after processing through a sterilization process.     Filters
can be present on one or more other container panels in
replacement of or in addition to lid filter shown in
container assembly 2900.    This allows one or more filtered
paths  for sterilization agents to enter and exit container
assembly while maintaining a microbial barrier.
[000399]   A tray 160  (FIG. 2) containing surgical
instruments  180  (FIG. 2) to be sterilized is placed into
container 2902 so that tray 160    rests on bottom panel 407.
Cover 450 is  retained to container 2902 using locking lid
latch 496.   Locking lid latch 496 is   rotated by a user
upwardly over cover steps   446 and then downwardly to a
locked position where cover 450    is retained to and locked to
container 2902.
[000400]   Referring to FIGS. 31,   32 and 33, details of
removable sensor apparatus 3000 are shown.     Removable sensor
apparatus 3000 comprises a sensor module receiver 3100 and a
removable sensor unit, device or module 3500.     Removable
sensor unit or module 3500 can be inserted into and removed
from sensor module receiver 3100.
[000401]   Sensor module receiver 3100 includes receiver
housing 3102,  retaining ring 3200,   housing cover 3250,
carriage assembly 3300 and lock mechanism 3400 all of which
can be formed from injection molded plastic or metals.
Receiver housing 3102 has a generally square shaped central
body 3104 with an integral attached triangular shaped
extension 3105.    Body 3104 has a front surface 3106, rear
surface 3108 and five sides 3110.     Two slots 3112 are
defined in two of the sides 3110.     The sides 3110 with the
                               134

slots are parallel and diametrically opposed to each other
on opposite sides of body 3104.    The length of slots 3112
are defined by the thickness of body 3104.     Threaded bores
3114 are defined at the base of each slot 3112.     Bores 3114
extend perpendicularly from the base of each slot 3112
partially into body 3104.
[000402]   With specific reference to FIG. 33,  a cylindrical
sleeve 3118 extends perpendicularly away from front surface
3106 and terminates at a distal end 3120. A step 3128 is
located on the sleeve outer surface and is positioned
approximately half way between distal end 3120 and a groove
3126.   Step 3128 separates a proximal annular outer surface
3123 and a distal annular outer surface 3124.     Proximal
annular outer surface 3124 has a larger diameter than distal
annular outer surface 3124.    Threads 3129 are defined on
outer surface 3123.   Sleeve 3118 further includes an inner
annular surface 3122 that defines a thru bore 3125.     Annular
groove 3126 is located in body front surface 3106
surrounding sleeve 3118 at the base or proximal end of
sleeve 3118.   Groove 3126 is dimensioned to receive
container O-ring 3127   (FIG. 32). O-ring 3127 is  seated in
groove 3126.   After assembly, container O-ring 3127 forms a
seal between receiver housing 3102 and container panel 406
by compressing seal 3127 between interior panel surface 412
of pane 406 through threaded compression with retaining ring
3200.
[000403]   Two diametrically opposed portions of distal end
3120 are removed to define diametrically opposed arcuate
shaped recesses 3132.    The remaining portions of distal end
3120 form two diametrically opposed arcuate shaped shoulders
3134.   The inner most edges of shoulders 3134 adjacent inner
annular surface 3122 are beveled.    Two threaded bores 3136
are defined in the base of each recess 3132.    Bores 3136
                               135

extend perpendicularly from the base of each recess 3132
partially into sleeve 3118.
[000404]   Fingers 3138 and 3140 extend perpendicularly away
from inner annular surface 3122 partially into thru bore
3125.   Fingers 3138 and 3140 are diametrically opposed to
each other on opposite sides of bore 3125 and are located
toward the proximal end of bore 3125.    Finger 3140 has a
larger width than finger 3138.
[000405]   Annular groove 3142 is  located in body rear
surface 3108 spaced from and surrounding the opening of thru
bore 3125.   Groove 3142 is dimensioned to receive O-ring
3144  (FIG. 32).    The O-ring 3144 is seated in groove 3142.
The O-ring 3144 forms a seal between receiver housing 3102
and plate 3350.    In some versions of the invention an
adhesive is used to hold 0-ring 3144 in groove 3412.     A
rectangular shaped chamber 3146 is defined in triangular
extension 3105 and has   an opening towards front surface
3106.   Chamber 3146 is  dimensioned to receive a printed
circuit board as will be described later.
[000406]   A terminal assembly 3150 is mounted in receiver
housing 3102.    Terminal assembly 3150 includes several
elongated electrically conductive terminals 3152 that are
electrically separated by an insulator 3154.    Terminals  3152
are formed from a conductor material such as a copper alloy.
Insulator 3154 is   a material such as polyimide that is
molded around terminals 3152 to form terminal assembly 3150.
[000407]   In one embodiment, terminal assembly 3150 is
placed in the same mold that is used to injection mold
receiver housing 3102 from plastic.    In another embodiment,
terminal assembly 3150 is hermetically sealed to receiver
housing 3102.    After molding or sealing, terminal assembly
3150 is  an integral part of receiver housing 3102.   Terminal
                               136

assembly 3150 defines an internal passage 3155 within sleeve
3118 through which terminals 3152 extend.
[000408]   In another embodiment, terminal assembly 3150 is a
flexible circuit that is inserted into internal passage 3155
within sleeve 3118.   The flexible circuit is then held in
place using a silicone adhesive or other appropriate curable
adhesive or sealant.
[000409]   Terminals 3152 further have flush proximal contact
ends 3156 that face towards bore 3125.    Terminals 3152 also
have distal contact ends 3158 that extend perpendicularly
away from the sleeve outer surface 3124.    Contact ends 3156
and 3158 are electrically connected to other electrical
components as will be described later.    In another
embodiment, another set of terminals 3160 may extend through
passage 3155 and through another passage 3162 defined in
extension 3105.   Terminals 3160 have ends  3164 that
terminates  in chamber 3146 and ends  3166 that extends
perpendicularly away from sleeve outer surface 3124 and are
adjacent to contact ends 3158.
[000410]   With additional reference to FIG. 31,  an optional
embodiment may contain an electronic sterile barrier
monitoring system with Hall Effect printed circuit board
3170 which has an attached Hall Effect sensor 3172.     Hall
Effect printed circuit board 3170 is mounted in chamber 3146
and is electrically connected to terminal ends   3164 by
suitable methods such as soldering or wire bonding.     Hall
Effect sensor 3172 detects the presence or absence of magnet
448  (FIG. 29).  When cover 450  is mounted and latched to
container 2902,  Hall Effect sensor 3172 detects the magnetic
field generated by magnet 448 and transmits an electrical
signal  indicating a detected magnetic field.   When cover 450
is  removed from container 2902,  lid latch 496 is pivoted
away from Hall Effect sensor 3172 causing sensor 3172 to
                              137

detect the absence of a magnetic field and transmits an
electrical signal indicating no magnetic field.
[000411]   Turning to FIG. 34,  details of retainer ring 3200
and cover 3250 are shown.   Retainer ring 3200 is generally
round in shape and has  a proximal face 3202,   a distal face
3204, an outer annular surface 3206 and an inner annular
surface 3208.   The outer peripheral edge of distal face 3204
is beveled.   Threads 3210 are defined in inner annular
surface 3208.   Retainer ring threads 3210 mate with receiver
housing threads 3129 in order to secure and seal sensor
module receiver 3100 to container 2902.     Threaded bores  3212
extend perpendicularly from distal face 3204 partially into
retainer ring 3200.
[000412]   Cover 3250 is generally round in shape with an
extended section 3252.   Cover 3250 has a distal face 3254,    a
proximal rim 3255,  an outer annular surface 3256 and an
inner step 3258.   Inner step 3258 defines inner annular
surface 3262.   Inner annular surface 3262 terminates at
proximal face 3254 and defines an opening 3263.     A circular
skirt  3260 extends in a proximal direction away from step
3258 and terminates at rim 3255.     Skirt 3260 and annular
surface 3262 defines thru bore 3264.     The outer peripheral
edge of distal face 3254 is beveled.
[000413]   Two diametrically opposed arcuate ribs 3270 extend
perpendicularly from inner annular surface 3262 into bore
3264.   The inner edges of ribs   3270 are beveled.  The distal
facing surface of ribs 3270 is    flush with proximal face
3254.   Two holes 3272 are defined in each rib 3270.    Holes
3272 extend entirely through rib 3270.     Ribs 3270 define two
diametrically opposed arcuate gaps 3274 located between each
of ribs 3270.
[000414]   Extended section 3252 is formed with a rectangular
circuit board holder 3280.   Holder 3280 includes a distal
                               138

facing opening 3282 and a bottom wall 3284.        Holder 3280 is
open at distal face 3254.     Apertures 3286 are defined in
bottom wall 3284.
[000415]   With additional reference to FIG. 31,      a container
printed circuit board    (PCB) 3800 is mounted and retained in
holder 3280.   Opening 3282 is dimensioned to receive PCB
3800.   Specifically, PCB 3800 is    fastened to bottom wall
3284 by self tapping screws 3290 threaded into apertures
3286.   Standoffs 3292 are positioned between bottom wall
3284 and PCB 3800 in order to space      PCB 3800 from bottom
wall 3284.   Screws 3290 also extend through standoffs 3292.
The components of container PCB 3800 will be described
later.   A transparent lens 3294 is mounted to distal face
3254 covering opening 3282.     Lens 3294 allows a user to
visually see light emitting diodes mounted to PCB 3800.
Lens 3294 is  attached to distal face 3254 using ultrasonic
welding or is heat staked.
[000416]   PCB 3800 is electrically connected to terminal
assembly 3150   (FIG. 33).   Specifically, PCB 3800 is
connected to terminal ends    3158 and 3166 by suitable methods
such as soldering or wire bonding.       PCB 3800 is  in
communication with optional embodiment containing Hall
Effect PCB 3170 via terminals 3160      (FIG. 33).
[000417]   Retainer ring 3200 is    attached to receiver housing
3102 by the mating of retainer ring threads 3210 with
receiver housing threads 3129.      Next, cover 3250 is mounted
to retainer ring 3200.     Cover 3250 is   aligned with receiver
housing 3102 and moved in the proximal direction so that
cover ribs  3270 slide or fit into receiver housing gaps      3138
and receiver housing shoulders 3134 slide or fit into cover
gaps 3274.
[000418]   Cover 3250 contacts retainer ring 3200 such that
cover step 3258 abuts    ring distal face 3204 and cover skirt
                                139

3260 surrounds ring outer annular surface 3206.     Fasteners
such as screws 3296 extend through rib holes 3272 and are
retained in threaded bores 3212 thereby attaching cover 3250
to retainer ring 3200.
[000419]   Referring now to FIGS. 31 and 35,  sensor module
receiver 3100 further includes a carriage assembly 3300.
Carriage assembly 3300 is attached to receiver housing 3102.
Carriage assembly 3300 guides the movement of plate 3350
between the open and closed positions of the plate.
Carriage assembly 3300 comprises support bracket 3302, plate
3350 and lock mechanism 3400.
[000420]   Support bracket 3302 includes a base 3304 with
four orthogonal arms  3306 extending away from base 3304.
Arms 3306 form an X-shape.    Each arm 3306 has an attached
distal foot 3310 that is oriented at an approximate 45
degree angle to arm 3306.    From the center of each foot
3310, a cylindrical shaped post 3312 extends perpendicularly
away from foot 3310 and has   a terminal end 3313.   From an
outer side of each foot 3310,   a rectangular shaped leg 3314
extends perpendicularly away from foot 3310 and has    a
terminal end 3315.  Posts 3312 are parallel to legs 3314.     A
hole 3316 is  defined in each leg 3314 towards terminal end
3315.   An aperture 3320 is defined in each of the lower most
arms 3306.   Support bracket 3302 surrounds an interior area
3322.
[000421]   Plate 3350 is generally round in shape and is
mounted to support bracket 3302 for sliding movement along
posts  3312.  Plate 3350 has  a proximal side 3354,  a distal
side 3352 and an outer annular surface 3356.    Four ears  3358
extend radially away from outer annular surface 3356.     Ears
3358 are spaced 90 degrees apart from each other on outer
annular surface 3356.   A bore 3359 is  formed in each ear
3358.   Bore 3359 extends through the entire thickness of ear
                               140

3358.   Bore 3359 is accurately formed to allow sliding
movement of plate 3350 along post 3312.
[000422]   Plate 3350 further has  a first annular step 3360
defined in proximal side 3354 and a second annular step 3362
defined in proximal side 3354.    Step 3360 has a larger
diameter than step 3362 and encircles step 3362.     A threaded
bore 3364 is  defined at the center of step 3362.    Bore 3364
is perpendicular to step 3362.
[000423]   A third annular step 3368 is formed in distal side
3352 and defines an annular channel 3370.    The remaining
portion of distal side 3352 forms a distally directed
annular face 3355.   After assembly, annular face 3355 is
juxtaposed to face seal 0-ring 3144 seated in groove 3142.
Circular shaped drum 3372 extends in a distal direction
perpendicularly away from the center of step 3368.     A
cylindrical boss 3374 extends from drum 3372 in a distal
direction parallel to drum 3372.    Boss 3374 has  a smaller
diameter than drum 3372.     A pair of diametrically opposed
shoes  3376 is attached to boss 3374 by spars 3378.    Shoes
3376 are spaced from boss 3374 by spars 3378.     A slot 3377
is defined between the opposed faces of shoes   3376.
Receptacles 3380 are defined between the proximal facing
portion of shoe 3376 and the distal facing portion of boss
3374.   Slot 3377 and receptacles 3380 are dimensioned to
receive a portion of case  3502 as will be described later.
[000424]   Plate 3350 is coupled to posts  3312 such that
plate  3350 slides along posts 3312.   A plate return coil
spring 3382 is mounted over and surrounds each post 3312.
One end of coil  spring 3382 abuts foot 3310 and the other
end of coil spring 3382 abuts the proximal face of ear 3358.
Bores 3359 are aligned with posts 3312 and plate 3350 is
slid onto posts  3312 such that posts 3312 extend through
bores  3359.  In this position, plate return coil spring 3382
                              141

is compressed between foot 3310 and the proximal face of ear
3358.   Plate return coil spring 3382 biases plate 3350 in a
distal direction towards receiver housing 3102.
[000425]   Carriage assembly 3300 also includes a lock
mechanism 3400.    Lock mechanism 3400 functions to prevent
plate  3350 from being opened or moved to an open position
when plate   3350 is in a closed position.    Lock mechanism
3400 comprises a hub 3402 with four orthogonal      arms 3406
extending away from hub 3402.      The ends of arms 3406 are
rounded.   Hub 3402 has   a distal facing oval shaped raised
wall 3408 that surrounds and defines oval shaped central
opening 3410.
[000426]   A  rod 3412 is mounted to a proximal facing surface
of each of arms   3406.   Rods 3412 extend in a proximal
direction perpendicular to and away from arms      3406.   The
terminal ends of rods 3412 are rounded.      Lever 3414 is
connected to hub 3402.     Specifically, lever end 3416 is
attached to hub 3402.     The other lever end 3418 is curved or
hooked.   Lever 3414 is   configured to be manually grasped by
an operator.
[000427]   Lock mechanism 3400 is    retained to plate   3350 in a
manner that allows sliding movement by lock mechanism 3400
relative to plate 3250. A    fastener such as threaded screw
3422 extends through opening 3410 and is received and
retained in plate threaded bore 3364.      Screw 3422 has a head
that is  dimensioned to have a larger diameter than the width
of opening 3410.    During installation, the head of screw
3422 is  drawn against the proximal surface of hub 3402,
thereby retaining lock mechanism 3400 to plate 3250.
[000428]   A  lumen 3424 is  formed thru the bottom of oval
shaped raised wall 3408 below opening 3410.      A  lock return
coil spring 3426 is disposed in lumen 3424 such that one end
of spring 3426 abuts    screw 3422 and the other end abuts the
                                142

outer circumferential wall of step 3362.     Return coil spring
3426 biases  lock mechanism 3400 in an upward direction
towards cover 450   (FIG. 30).
[000429]   Carriage assembly 3300 is assembled by sliding
plate  3350 with attached lock mechanism 3400 over posts    3312
with coil springs  3382 such that posts 3312 extend through
bores  3359.  The carriage assembly 3300 is    then mounted to
receiver housing 3102.    Each of the four support bracket
legs 3314 are positioned in housing receiver slots     3112 such
that leg holes 3316 are aligned with housing receiver bores
3114.   Threaded fasteners 3430 extend thru leg holes 3316
and into bores 3114.    Carriage assembly 3300 is   thereby
connected to receiver housing 3102.
[000430]   With specific reference to FIGS. 31 and 36,
details of removable   sensor module 3500 are illustrated.
Removable sensor module 3500 is    inserted into and received
by sensor receiver 3100.    Removable sensor module 3500
contains one or more sensors for sensing the operating
environment within container 2902    (FIG. 29).  Removable
sensor module 3500 comprises a circuit board assembly 3700
that is mounted to a sensor case 3502.     Sensor case 3502 is
generally cylindrical in shape and has a proximal end 3504
and a distal end 3506.    Case 3502 has  an outer annular
surface 3508.   Case 3502 further includes a central dividing
wall 3510 that bisects case 3502 and is perpendicular to
outer surface 3508.    A first annular skirt 3512 extends in a
distal direction from wall 3510 terminating at distal end
3506.   A second annular skirt 3520 extends in a proximal
direction from wall 3510 terminating at proximal end 3504.
Second skirt 3520 and dividing wall 3510 define an annular
cavity 3530.
[000431]   First skirt 3512 is bisected by a grip 3514 that
extends across the diameter of first skirt 3512.      The base
                               143

of grip 3514 is connected to the distal facing side of
dividing wall 3510.    Grip 3514 and first   skirt 3512 define
two finger cutouts 3516.     An operator manually manipulates
or rotates removable   sensor module 3500 by inserting their
fingers  into cutouts 3516 and squeezing grip 3514 between
their fingers.
[000432]    A cylindrical shaped drum 3522 extends
perpendicularly from the center of dividing wall 3510 in a
proximal direction.    An oval shaped head 3523 is attached to
drum 3522 by a shaft   3526.   Head 3523 is  spaced away from
drum 3522 in the proximal direction by shaft 3526.       Head
3523 includes a pair of diametrically opposed fins 3524 that
extend away from head 3523 in opposite directions.       Fins
3524 are perpendicular to shaft 3526.      Head 3524 and fins
3525 are dimensioned to mate with shoes 3376      (FIG. 35).   A
gap 3525 is defined between fins 3524 and the proximal
facing side of drum 3522.
[000433]    Fins 3524 mate with shoes   3376  (FIG. 35) in order
to couple case 3502 to plate 3350.     Head 3523 is dimensioned
to fit into plate slot 3377    (FIG. 35)  when case 3502 is
oriented such that fins 3524 are parallel to shoes      3376
 (FIG. 35).   As case 3502 is manually inserted in a proximal
direction into receiver housing 3102, head 3523 will
eventually contact and abut the distal facing side of boss
3374.   In this position, case 3502 is    rotated 90 degrees
causing fins 3524 to move into receptacles 3380.
Receptacles 3380 are dimensioned to receive fins 3524.        Case
3502 is  now retained to plate 3350.
[000434]    An annular groove 3532 is defined in outer annular
surface 3508.    Groove 3532 is dimensioned to receive a
circular 0-ring 3534.    O-ring 3534 is   seated in groove 3532.
O-ring 3534 forms a seal with the inner annular surface 3122
 (FIG. 33 of sleeve 3118   (FIG. 33).
                                144

[000435]   Two channels 3540 and 3541 are defined in the case
outer annular surface 3508.    Channels 3540 and 3541 are
diametrically opposed to each other on opposite portions of
the circumference of case   3502.   Channel 3540 has an
entrance opening 3542   (FIG. 31)  that is adjacent proximal
end 3504.   Channel 3541 has  an entrance opening 3543   (not
shown) that is adjacent proximal end 3504.     Channel 3541 and
entrance opening 3542 are formed to have a larger or wider
width than channel 3540 and entrance opening 3542.      Channel
3540 angles from opening 3542 in a distal direction along
the circumference of surface 3508 and terminates in an L
shaped trap 3544.   Channel 3541 angles from opening 3543 in
a distal direction along the circumference of surface 3508
and terminates in another L-shaped trap 3544.     Channel 3540
is dimensioned to mate with and receive finger 3138 during
the loading of sensor case 3502 into receiver housing 3102.
Channel 3541 receives and mates with finger 3140 during the
loading of sensor case 3502 into receiver housing 3102.
Fingers 3138,  3140 and channels 3540,   3541 act as a key and
keyway respectively to properly align and index case 3502
with respect to receiver 3100.
[000436]   Because opening 3542 is smaller than the width of
finger 3140,  if case 3502 is misaligned with receiver 3100,
case 3502 is blocked from being inserted into receiver 3100.
Case 3502 can only be inserted into receiver 3100 when
finger 3138 is aligned with channel opening 3543 and finger
3140 is  aligned with channel opening 3542.
[000437]   Case 3502 also includes a connector passage 3550
that is  located between one of the traps   3544 and proximal
end 3504.   Connector passage 3550 extends perpendicularly
through second skirt  3520 into cavity 3530.    Connector
                               145

passage 3550 is dimensioned to receive a connector 3750 that
is attached to circuit board assembly.
[000438]   Threaded bores 3554 are defined in the proximal
face of dividing wall 3510 located at the bottom of cavity
3530.   Threaded bores 3554 extend perpendicularly into wall
3510 and are dimensioned to receive the external threaded
distal end 3558 of PCB standoffs 3556. PCB standoffs 3556
also have an internal threaded proximal end or head 3560.
PCB standoffs 3556 are screwed into bores 3554 forming a
support for circuit board assembly 3700.
[000439]   Turning to FIGS.  36,  37A and 37B, details of
circuit board assembly 3700 are shown.     Assembly 3700 has  a
printed circuit board   (PCB) 3701 that is generally planar
and doughnut shaped.    PCB 3701 includes a proximal facing
side 3702 and a distal facing side 3704 a circular opening
3706 is  defined through the center of PCB 3701.    PCB 3701 is
mounted in case cavity 3530.   Specifically, PCB distal side
3702 rests on and is   supported by standoffs 3556 with side
3702 abutting head 3560.    Skirt 3520 surrounds the outer
circumferential edge of PCB 3700.     In this position, head
3523  (FIG. 36) and drum 3522   (FIG. 36) extend through
central opening 3706.    Screws 3710 extend through PCB holes
3712 and are received by internally threaded heads 3560
retaining PCB 3701 to case 3502.
[000440]   PCB 3701 is  a multi-layer printed circuit board
that includes numerous printed circuit lines 3716 for the
interconnection of electrical components and sensors mounted
on PCB 3701.   A battery 3720, processor   1020, memory 1022,
I/O interface 1124 and wireless transceiver 1138 are mounted
to the distal facing side 3704 of PCB 3701.     Battery 3720
supplies electrical power to the components of circuit board
assembly 3700.   Processor 1020, memory 1022,   I/O interface
                               146

1124 and wireless       transceiver 1138 are the same as
previously described in FIGS.         12B and 13.
[000441]       One or more sensors are mounted to the removable
sensor module 3500 and connected to PCB 3701.          In the
embodiment shown, sensors are mounted to proximal facing
side 3702 of PCB 3701.         Water vapor 1024, pressure sensor
1026 and temperature sensor 1028         are mounted to side 3702.
Water vapor sensor 1024, pressure sensor 1026 and
temperature sensor 1028        are the same as previously described
in FIGS. 12B and 13.        In an optional embodiment, also
mounted to side 3702 is an optical sensor 1052         that senses
the amount of infrared        (IR) or ultraviolet  (UV) light
transmitted through an optical path length 3770 within
container 2902.        In one embodiment, optical sensor 1052
detects and measures concentrations of hydrogen peroxide
vapor  (H 2 0 2 ) . In one embodiment, optical sensor 1052 detects
water vapor or another gas or vapor where absorbance
characteristics of the gas or vapor are known.
[000442]       Optical sensor 1052 includes an IR or UV source or
emitter 1056,       an optical reflector or mirror 3764 and an IR
or UV receiver or detector 1058 mounted to side 3702.          Light
filters    (not shown) can be mounted around source 1056 or
detector 1058       to remove any undesired light wavelengths.
Mirror 3764 is positioned to reflect incident light energy
towards detector 1058.         Mirror 3764 is formed from a
material that reflects emitter energy 1056 back to detector
1058 such as vacuum deposited aluminum on glass.
[000443]      Mirror 3764 allows for a longer optical path
length 3770 than would otherwise be possible without the use
of mirror 3764.        A longer optical path length 3770 improves
the accuracy and precision of measurements         of detected
hydrogen peroxide vapor concentrations.
                                    147

[000444]   Because hydrogen peroxide vapor absorbs infrared
or ultraviolet light at specific know wavelengths, the
amount of light at that frequency transmitted through a
known path length 3770 containing hydrogen peroxide vapor is
proportional  to the concentration of the hydrogen peroxide
vapor.   Other vapors or gases with known wavelength
absorbance characteristics can be detected and measured by
appropriately selected emitter 1056 and detector 1058.
[000445]   Connector 3740 is mounted to PCB 3701.
Specifically connector 3740 has     an insulating body 3742 that
contains several   terminals 3744.    Terminals 3744 are
attached PCB 3701 by suitable methods such as soldering.
The other end of terminals 3744 are connected to button
contacts 3746.    Button contacts 3746 face radially outward
from body 3742.    Button contacts 3746 mate with receiver
housing proximal contact ends 3156      (FIG. 33)  to form an
electrical connection between removable sensor circuit board
assembly 3700 and container printed circuit board 3800.
When PCB 3701 is mounted in case 3502,      connector 3740 is
received by and disposed in connector opening 3550       (FIG.
36).   Button contacts 3746 extend slightly beyond insulating
body 3742 and extend slightly beyond the adjoining outer
annular surface 3708    (FIG. 36).   This extension of button
contacts 3746 allows them to mate with proximal contact ends
3156 when removable sensor module 2500 is properly inserted
into sensor receiver 3100.
[000446]   FIG. 38  illustrates details of container printed
circuit board   (PCB) 3800.   PCB 3800 is mounted in cover
circuit board holder 3280    (FIG. 34).    PCB 3800 is generally
planar and rectangular in shape.      PCB 3800 includes a
proximal facing side 3802 and a distal facing side 3804.
PCB 3800 is  a multi-layer printed circuit board that
includes numerous printed circuit lines       (not shown) for the
                                148

interconnection of electrical components and in certain
embodiments sensors mounted on PCB 3800.         Holes 3810 are
defined in PCB 3800.    Screws 3290     (FIG. 31)  pass through
holes 3810 in order to retain PCB 3800 to cover 3250         (FIG.
31).
[000447]    A battery 3820,  controller 3830,     one or more LEDs
3842,  3844 3846 are all mounted to the distal facing side
3804.   Battery 3820 supplies electrical power to the
components of PCB 3800.     Controller 3830 is a micro
controller that   includes an internal memory that stores       sets
of instruction or software.      PCB 3800 may also include
memory that can store data such as measurement data from
sterilization process, VSPM data, usage data or other
workflow process data for example the operator who
programmed the sensor module with VSPM data or operator who
assembled the equipment load into container or the time and
date of the sterilization process.        The PCB 3800 combined
with the removable sensor PCB 3700 functions like steam
sensor modules 1000, hydrogen peroxide sensor module 1050,
combined steam and hydrogen peroxide sensor module, or other
sensor modules 200,   460,  560,   660,  760,  850 described
herein.    PCB 3800 will have some additional electronic
components,   some redundant with removable sensor module PCB
3700 so after removable sensor module 3500 is removed, PCB
3800 memory may contain information tied to the specific
sterilization process, equipment load, operator information,
programming information and other information required to
track, record or monitor business processes, regulation
processes or quality control processes for sterilization
events.    Controller 3830 is  in communication with optional
Hall Effect circuit board 3170       (FIG. 31)  via terminal 3162
 (FIG. 33).   When removable sensor module 3500 is coupled to
sensor module receiver 3100     (FIG. 31),    controller 3830 is   in
                                 149

communication with processor 1020 via I/O interface 1024.
Controller 3830 allows for data and instructions to be sent
and received from processor 1020.
 [000448]        Red LED 3842,             yellow LED 3844 and green LED 3846
provide visual information to a user of container assembly
2900.        LEDS    3842,       3844 and 3846 are viewed by a user through
transparent lens 3294                  (FIG. 31).           In one embodiment, red LED
3842 indicates that container 2902 and its contents have
been processed through a sterilization cycle that was
unsuccessful in meeting a pre-determined set of minimum
validated sterilization process measurements such as
previously described VSPM 1150                         (FIG. 19).      As  such the
contents of container 2902 are considered to be non-sterile.
 [000449]         In another embodiment, yellow LED 3842 indicates
that container 2902 and its contents have not been processed
through a sterilization cycle.                          In an additional embodiment,
green LED 3846 indicates that container 2902 and its
contents have been processed through a sterilization cycle
that was successful in meeting a pre-determined set of
minimum validated sterilization process measurements                                  such as
previously described VSPM 1150                         (FIG. 19).      As a result, the
contents of container 2902 are considered to be sterile.
XXIV. Insertion and Removal of Removable Sensor Module
 [000450]        FIGS.       39-43     illustrate          a   sequence   of    steps     in    the
insertion         and     removal       of      removable       sensor   module    3500       into
and     from     sensor        receiver         3100.      With    specific     reference         to
FIGS.       31   and    39,      removable         sensor      module   apparatus      3000       is
shown       in   an    initial        or     first     position      where   sensor       module
3500      is    separated          from      receiver        3100.     In  this     position,
plate       3350    is    compressed           by   springs      3382   against    face       seal
0-ring        3144 forming a seal between distally directed annular
face      3355     (FIG.       35)   and     0-ring      3144.      In  some    embodiments,
                                                   150

this     seal and plate form part of a sterile barrier enclosure
with     container assembly 2900.                Also,    in    the   first     position,
lock     mechanism       3400    is  in    a   locked    state.         In    the   locked
state,       lock   mechanism       3400    prevents      plate      3350     from    being
opened      or   moved     away   from receiver        housing      3102    maintaining
a    sealed     position.        In  the     locked   position,        lock     mechanism
3400      is   in   an    uppermost      location       where      raised      wall     3408
 (FIG.     35)   abuts     the  upper    side     wall   of     step   3362     (FIG.     35)
and     rods     3412    are   positioned        adjacent       to   and   in    abutting
relationship          to    bracket     arms     3306   preventing         movement        of
plate       3350    in    the   proximal       direction        away    from     receiver
housing 3102.
 [000451]       Turning to FIGS.         31 and 40,      sensor module 3500 is
shown in a second position being loaded into receiver 3100.
In this position, lid 450 has been removed from container
2902 and removable sensor module 3500 has been manually
inserted into opening 3263                (FIG. 34)     and bore 3125           (FIG. 34)
of sleeve 3118          (FIG. 34).       In the second position, 0-ring
3534 forms a seal with the inner annular surface 3122                               (FIG.
33)    of sleeve 3118         (FIG. 33).        As case 3502 is manually
inserted in a proximal direction into receiver housing 3102,
head 3523 will eventually contact and abut the distal facing
side of boss 3374 limiting movement in the proximal
direction.         Also, in this        location, fingers 3138 and 3140
are aligned with channel openings 3542                       (FIG. 31).        Plate
3350 is       still in a sealed and locked position.
 [000452]       As part of the process of inserting sensor module,
the lever 3414 is manually pressed downwardly.                            This places
locking mechanism 3400 in the unlocked position.                             This
repositioning of the locking mechanism frees plate                             3350 to
move inwardly.           This   freeing of the plate 3500 for movement
allows the continued insertion of the sensor module 3500
into the container receiver 3100.                   As   the sensor module is
                                             151

inserted in the receiver, the module pushes against and
displaces plate  3350.  This displacement of plate 3350
temporarily breaks the seal between the receiver
housing 3102 and the plate.
[000453]   In the unlocked position, lock mechanism 3400 is
in a lowermost location where raised wall 3408     (FIG. 35)
abuts the lower side wall of step 3362    (FIG. 35)  and lever
end 3418 abuts the outer surface of plate 3350.      This
prevents further downward movement of lever 3414.       Also, in
the unlocked position, the two upper rods 3412 are
positioned below the upper bracket arms 3306 and the two
lower rods are in axial alignment with holes 3320      (FIG. 35)
allowing movement of plate 3350 in the proximal direction
away from receiver housing 3102.
[000454]   Next, the operator rotates case 3502 45'.      This
rotation results in fins 3524 moving into plate receptacles
3380 and adjacent shoes 3376   (FIG. 35).   Receptacles 3380
are dimensioned to receive fins 3524.     Case 3502 is now
retained to plate 3350.
[000455]   Case 3502 is then rotated an additional 45'.      As a
result of this rotation, fingers   3138 and 3140 track along
channels 3540.   Thus results in case 3502 being drawn in the
proximal direction towards bracket 3302.     Because case 3502
is coupled to plate 3350,  the rotation of case 3502 also
causes a like movement of plate 3350 in a proximal direction
away from receiver housing 3102 opening plate    3350.    As
plate  3350 moves in the proximal direction, springs     3382 are
compressed and rods 3412 also move in a proximal direction
past bracket arms 3306 and through holes 3320     (FIG. 35).
Plate  3350 moves away from 0-ring 3144 creating a passage
4110 between plate 3350 and sensor circuit board assembly
                              152

3700.   Passage 4110 allows sensors on circuit board assembly
3700 to be exposed to the operating environment and
conditions within container 2902.
[000456]   As shown in FIG. 41,     case 3502 is now in a
position where the distal end 3506 of case 3502 has moved
slightly past distal face 3254 of cover 3250 and into bore
3264  (FIG. 34).
[000457]   With reference to FIGS. 31     and 42, removable
sensor module 3500 is    shown in a fourth operational
position.   When the operator manually releases case 3502,
compressed coil   springs 3382 cause plate    3350 and case 3502
to move in distal direction such that fingers      3138 and 3140
are seated in trap 3544     (best seen in FIG. 36).    Case 3502
is now rotatably locked to receiver housing 3102.        At the
same time, distal movement of case 3502 causes contact
buttons 3746   (FIG. 37B) to be engaged and seated against
terminal ends 3156    (FIG. 33)  creating an electrical
connection between sensor PCB 3702 and container PCB 3800
via terminals 3152    (FIG. 34).    The components of sensor PCB
3702 are now in communication with components of container
PCB 3800
[000458]   Surgical instruments     180 to be sterilized are
manually loaded into container 2902 and cover 450 is placed
over container 2902.     Locking lid latch 496 is moved to a
locked position retaining cover 450 to container 2902.        In
an optional embodiment, pivoting of lid latch 496 causes
magnet 448 to be positioned in proximity to Hall Effect
sensor 3172 such that Hall Effect sensor 3172 senses the
magnetic field generated by magnet 448.       Container assembly
2900 is  now ready to be processed through a sterilization
process cycle within sterilization chamber 52       (FIG. 1).
During the sterilization process cycle, removable sensor
module 3500 monitors and collects data in regards to the
                                 153

operating environment, conditions and process measurements
within container 2902.
[000459]   After the sterilization process cycle is
completed, sensor module 3500 is    removed from sensor
receiver 3100 while maintaining the sterile state inside of
the container assembly 2900.    The sensor module is removed
by pressing module case 3502 in the proximal direction while
simultaneously rotating the case counterclockwise.        The
proximal movement of the case 3502 causes fingers 3138 and
3140 to move out of trap 3544.     As case 3502 is    rotated
counterclockwise, fingers   3138 and 3140 track along channels
3540 causing case 3502 to be drawn in a distal direction
away from receiver housing 3102.      Plate 3350,   it is
understood is coupled to the case 3502 for axial movement.
Consequently, the longitudinal displacement of case 3502
causes a like displacement of the plate 3350.        The movement
of case 3502 and plate 3350 in the distal direction is
assisted by coil springs 3382.     The counterclockwise
rotation of case 3502 also causes the disconnection of
contact buttons 3746 from terminals ends      3156.   Figure 41
sensor module 3500 is   shown in this position
[000460]   Eventually, the distally directed annular face
3355  (FIG. 35)  of plate 3350 contacts 0-ring 3144.      This
establishes a seal between plate 3350 and receiver housing
3102.   This seal closes passage 4110     (FIG. 42).   After the
seal is  established, lock mechanism 3400 is biased by coil
spring 3426   (FIG. 35) to move into the locked state.      Coil
spring 3426 causes lock mechanism 3400 to move to an
uppermost location where raised wall 3408      (FIG. 35)  abuts
the upper side wall of step 3362     (FIG. 35)  limiting upward
movement of lock mechanism 3400 and rods      3412 are positioned
                               154

adjacent to bracket arms 3306 preventing movement of plate
3350 in the proximal direction away from receiver housing
3102.
[000461]   During this removal of the sensor module,
plate  3350 is pulled outwardly.     This results in the
plate  3350 being pressed against 0-ring 3144.      This adds to
the force springs  3382 apply to the plate so as to hold the
plate  in sealed and locked position.
[000462]    As case 3502 is   further rotated counterclockwise,
fins 3524 will move out of engagement with shoes 3376 and
out of plate receptacles 3380 allowing case 3502 to be
separated from plate   3350.   Continued manual movement by the
operator of case 3502 in the distal direct causes removable
sensor module 3500 to be removed and separated from receiver
housing bore 3125   (FIG. 34)  and opening 3263   (FIG. 34).
Throughout the removal of removable     sensor module from
sensor receiver, the seals 3534 and 3144 act together so
that at least one seal will always be sealing to adjacent
surfaces, preventing air and microorganisms from entering
the container throughout the removal process.       This at least
one seal maintained embodiment temporarily forms part of the
sterile barrier enclosure during the removal process.
Removable sensor module 3500 is now available to be reused
with other containers   2902 during sterilization processing.
[000463]   Sensor module 3000 is    constructed so that a
sterile seal is maintained between container 2902 and
receiver 3100 regardless of the position of removable sensor
module 3500.   When sensor module 3500 is removed from
receiver 3100,  annular face 3355    (FIG. 35) of plate 3350 and
face seal 0-ring 3144 form a sterile seal preventing
contaminants from moving thru receiver 3100 and into
container 2902.   When sensor module 3500 is inserted or
removed, 0-ring 3534 and inner annular surface 3122       (FIG.
                                155

33) maintain another sterile seal whenever plate 3350 is   in
a open position forming another sterile barrier.
[000464]   When the container is  subjected to sterilization,
the surfaces of plate 3500 and the adjacent receiver as well
the exposed surfaces of 0 ring 3534 are exposed to
sterilant.   Consequently, when these surface abut so as to
form a seal upon the removal of the sensor module, there is
little likelihood that contaminates will be trapped between
these surfaces.
[000465]   Lock mechanism 3400 is  designed so that plate 3350
can only be opened after cover 450 is   open or removed.  Lock
mechanism 3400 has to be manually actuated from within
container 2902 in order to open.    After container 2902 has
been sterilized and after sensor module 3500 has been
detached from receiver 3100,  any subsequent attempts to
reinsert another removable sensor module 3500 into receiver
3100 will be blocked by lock mechanism 3400 being in the
locked state, thereby maintaining sterile conditions within
container 2902.   Fourth, because removable sensor module
3500 can be detached from container 2902, Removable sensor
module 3500 is available to be reused with other additional
containers 2902 during sterilization processing.    If
removable sensor module 3500 is   a relatively high cost item,
the use of a small number of removable sensor modules 3500
with a larger number of containers 2902 results in a more
cost efficient solution for the monitoring of process
measurements  during sterilization processing.   Also, sensors
or electronics that are located on the removable sensor
module 3500, will not be exposed to potential damage from
cleaning, automated washing and rough handling that sensors
or electronics permanently mounted to containers may
experience.
                              156

[000466]    In some of this embodiment of the invention, some
of the components that form part of the sensing assembly are
mounted to the container.     Typically these components are
mounted to the receiver.     Components that may be so affixed
to the receiver include the processor, the memory, the
indicator lights or the battery.       Also, owing some sensors
may be permanently mounted to the container.
XXIV. Docking Station For Use
       With Removable Sensor Modules
[000467]    Referring to FIG. 44,    another embodiment of a
docking station 1300 is shown.       Docking station 4400 is used
in conjunction with removable sensor apparatus 3000.
Docking station 4400 is used during the loading of surgical
instruments into containers 2902, to calibrate the sensors
of removable sensor module 3500 and to recharge batteries.
Docking station 4400 has many features in common with
docking station 1300 previously described with reference to
FIG. 16.    Docking station 4400 differs from docking station
1300 in that calibration chamber 1320 has been modified to
eliminate door 1326    (FIG. 16) and to add a fixed front panel
4410.   Several sensor receivers 3100 are mounted to front
panel 4410.    While six sensor receivers 3100 are shown
mounted to calibration chamber 1320, more or fewer sensor
receivers 3100 can be used.
[000468]    Removable sensor modules 3500 are attachable and
detachable with each of the sensor receivers 3100.        The
sensor receivers 3100 of docking station 4400 are connected
to and in communication with docking station controller 1402
 (FIG. 17).   When sensor modules 3500 are inserted into
receivers 3100,   sensor processor 1020     (FIG. 37A) is in
communication with docking station controller 1402 and
docking station processor 1410      (FIG. 17).
                                157

[000469]   Docking station 4400 contains steam generator
1430, hydrogen peroxide generator 1432, pressure pump 1434,
vacuum pump 1436 and heater 1438    (FIG. 17) all of which can
be used as needed to provide known concentrations and values
within calibration chamber 1320 during a calibration
procedure.
[000470]   Docking station 4400 is used in conjunction with
removable sensor apparatus 3000 in the same manner that
docking station 1300  is used with container 402.    Docking
station 4400 is used to program removable sensor module 3500
with validated sterilization process measurements     (VSPM)
1150 prior to sterilization processing as previously
described in step 2108 of FIG. 21.     Docking station 4400 is
used to recharge battery 3720   (FIG. 37A) in removable sensor
module 3500.   Docking station 4400 is used to calibrate the
sensors  in removable sensor module 3500 in the same manner
as previously described in steps 2704-2714 of FIG. 27.
Sensor calibration software 1460    (FIG. 17) is used by
docking station 4400 during the calibration of the sensors
associated with a respective removable sensor module 3500.
Sensor calibration software 1460   at least partially controls
the operation of steam generator 1430, hydrogen peroxide
generator 1432, pressure pump   1434, vacuum pump 1436 and
heater 1438 during a calibration procedure.
[000471]   It is noted that docking station 4400 can be used
to program and calibrate a large number of removable sensor
modules 3500 at the same time.
                              158

XXV. Operational Method to Determine If Validated
      Sterilization process Measurements Have Been Achieved
      During a Sterilization Process Using
      Removable Sensor Modules
[000472]   Referring to FIG. 45,     a flowchart of a method 4500
of determining if validated sterilization process
measurements within a container have been achieved during a
sterilization process using removable sensor modules 3500 is
shown.   Method 4500 illustrates     an exemplary method by which
container assemblies    3000 and removable sensor module 3500
presented within the preceding figures perform different
aspects of the processes that enable one or more embodiments
of the disclosure.    In the discussion of FIG.      45,  reference
will also be made to components      from FIGS. 29-44.
[000473]   Method 4500 begins at step 4502 where removable
sensor modules 3500 are programmed with VSPM 1150.
Removable sensor modules 3500       are loaded into docking
station 4400   (FIG. 44)  for programming.     At step 4502,
memory 1022   (FIG. 37A) is programmed with specific validated
sterilization process measurements      (VSPM) 1150.     Container
programming software 1461     (FIG. 17)  executing on docking
station processor 1410    (FIG. 17)   identifies the specific
VSPM 1150 associated with the container equipment load,
using the data obtained from handheld reader 1240          (FIG. 44),
and transmits the VSPM 1150     for storage on memory 1022.       The
transmitted VSPM 1150    are specific to the equipment load to
be sterilized.
[000474]   Optionally at step 4502,     the sensors   of removable
sensor module 3500 are calibrated prior to use.          Removable
sensor module 3500 is    calibrated using docking station 4400.
[000475]   Removable sensor module 3500 is      removed from
docking station 4400 and loaded into a sensor receiver 3100
 (FIG. 40) attached to container 2902      (FIG. 40)  at step 4504.
                                 159

Step 4504 includes manual depression of lock mechanism 3400
within container 2902 when the lid is       open to allow
insertion of case 3502.      Sensor module 3500 processor 1020
 (FIG. 37A) establishes communications with container
controller 3830 at this time.
[000476]   At step 4506, the equipment load of surgical
instruments    180  (FIG. 2) is prepared for sterilization
processing by an operator.      At step 4506, the surgical
instruments    are placed into tray 160    (FIG. 2) and tray 160
is placed into container 2902.       Cover 450   (FIG. 40)  is
attached and closed to container 2902.
[000477]    In an optional step 4508,    the surgical instruments
180 and/or tray 160 and/or container 2902 are wrapped in a
sterile barrier material prior to sterilization processing.
[000478]    In an additional   optional step at block 4510,
sterilization verification     software 1152    (FIG. 14)  executing
on processor 1020     turns on container yellow LED 3844      (FIG.
38)  indicating to a user that the container assembly has not
yet been processed through a sterilization process cycle.
[000479]    The container 402   is placed into the sterilization
chamber 52    (FIG. 1) at step 4512 and the sterilization
process cycle within sterilization chamber 52        is started
 (block 4514).     During the sterilization process cycle, the
sterilization chamber is heated, pressurized and a
sterilant,   such as steam or hydrogen peroxide gas are pumped
into the sterilization chamber.       The sterilization process
cycle also   includes a cool down phase and drawing a vacuum
on the chamber.      These sub-steps remove residual condensed
sterilant from the container.       The sterilization chamber is
set to operate using a set of chamber process parameters
 (CPP) 66  (FIG. 1).    CPP 66 are the set of nominal process
parameter settings within the sterilization chamber.           The
sterilization chamber is set to operate using CPP 66.
                                 160

[000480]   Also, at step 4514,   sterilization verification
software 1152   executing on processor 1020 monitors and
collects real time data from the respective electronic
sensors  in sensor module 3500 during the sterilization
process.   The sensors monitor the environmental
characteristics within their respective containers.      The
collected real time operating data is    stored in memory 1022
as data 1156   (FIG. 14).   For example, sterilization
verification software 1152 executing on processor     1020
collects water vapor data from water vapor sensor 1024,
pressure data from pressure sensor 1026, temperature data
from temperature sensor 1028    and hydrogen peroxide
concentration data from hydrogen peroxide gas    sensor 1052.
All of the data recorded during the sterilization process is
stored as data 1156 in memory 1022.
[000481]   In step 4516, the processor 1020   compares the
observed environmental measurements to the VSPM 1150.      At
decision step 4520,   sterilization verification  software 1152
operating on processor 1020    determines if the real time
measured data 1156 during the performed sterilization
process meets or exceeds the minimum VSPM 1150 values for
each operating parameter to insure sterilization of the
container contents.     For example, if VSPM 1150 has a minimum
temperature and time value of 250 degrees Fahrenheit for 20
minutes, sterilization verification    software 1152 compares
these values to the recorded time and temperature values in
data 1156.
[000482]   In response to the recorded data 1156 values
meeting or exceeding the minimum VSPM 1150 values for each
sterilization operating measurement, Method 4500 proceeds to
step 4526 where sterilization verification software 1152
executing on processor 1020    indicates that the container
contents have been successfully sterilized by turning on
                                161

green container LED 3846.    (FIG. 38).  In one embodiment
additional data related to the sterilization process may be
transferred to container memory of PCB 3800 for storage,
workflow process or quality control practices.       For example
in one embodiment, measurement data, VSPM programmed data
set,  sterilization verification    results, sterilization date
and VSPM programming operator can be stored on container
memory on PCB 3800.      The container assembly is removed
from the sterilization chamber and the removable sensor
module 3500 is detached from container 2902 at step 4528.
The contents of container 2902 remain in a sealed sterile
state during and after sensor module 3500 has been
disconnected from container 2902.       Method 4500 then ends.
[000483]    In response to the recorded data 1156 values not
meeting or exceeding the minimum VSPM 1150, processor 1020
proceeds to step 4524,    Step 4524 is   identical to previously
described step 2126.
[000484]    The container is  removed from the sterilization
chamber and the removable    sensor module 3500 is   detached
from container 2902 at step 4528.      The contents of container
2902 should be reprocessed prior to use.      Method 4500 then
terminates.
[000485]    During storage, controller 3830    (FIG. 38)  executes
a set of instructions similar to sterile monitor software
1158   (FIG. 14) that causes controller 3830 to monitor the
electrical signal received from optional embodiment with
Hall Effect sensor 3172    (FIG. 31)  during storage.    If cover
450  is  opened, the electrical signal   from Hall Effect sensor
3172 changes triggering controller 3830 to turn off green
LED 3846   (FIG. 38) and to turn on red LED 3842    (FIG. 38).
The illumination of red LED 3842 provides a visual
indication to an operator that the contents of container
2902 are no longer considered sterile.
                                162

XXVI. Automatic Closing Container With
       Scissor Lifting and Lowering Mechanism
[000486]   Turning to FIGS. 46 and 47, another automatic
closing container assembly 4600 is illustrated.   Container
assembly 4600 uses a scissors mechanism 4700 to close a
moveable frame 4750.   The frame is closed after the
sterilization process is executed and residual sterilant
withdrawn from the container.
[000487]   Container assembly 4600 comprises a container
4602.   Container 4602 of FIG. 46 is the same the previously
described container 402  of FIG. 7A except that opening 414
and lid latches  496 have been omitted from container 402.
For the description of container assembly 4600,  container
4602 will be referred to using common reference numbers from
FIG. 7A.
[000488]   Container assembly 4600 further includes a rack or
tray 4620.  Tray 4620 can be formed from suitable materials
such as stainless steel or aluminum.   Tray 4620 comprises a
generally planar rectangular shaped base 4622 that   is
perforated with an array of holes 4626.   Holes 4626 allow
sterilant to circulate below base 4622.   Base 4622 has an
upper surface 4623 and a bottom surface 4624.   Four support
feet 4628 are mounted to base 4622 and extend
perpendicularly downward from the bottom surface 4624.   Feet
4628 rest on the upper surface of support skeleton 4710 when
tray 4620 is placed into container 4602.
[000489]   Tray 4620 is used to hold medical/surgical
instruments  180 within container 4602 during sterile
processing.   Tray 4620 includes a pair of spaced apart
handles 4632 that are mounted to opposite ends  of base 4622.
Handles 4632 allow a user to grasp and lift tray 4620.
                              163

[000490]    Tray 4620 is  formed with several   support members
4638 that extend upwardly from base 4622.       Medical/surgical
instruments   180 rest on and are supported by support members
4638.   Support members 4638 are dimensioned and shaped so
that medical/surgical instruments 180    are held and retained
in a preferred orientation for sterile processing.       It is
important for some medical/surgical instruments 180      to be
oriented in certain geometric orientations during sterile
processing such that   sterilant can readily enter and exit
from the surgical instruments.
[000491]    Cover 4650 is used to cover and enclose container
4602.   Cover 4650 includes a generally rectangular shaped
panel  4652 that  is surrounded by a raised peripheral flange
4654.   Cover 4650 is  formed from materials such as stamped
aluminum or other suitable materials.     Two latches   4658 are
mounted to opposite sides of cover 4650.       Each latch 4658 is
diametrically opposed to the other and is      attached to flange
4654.   Latch 4658 mates with a clip 4758 that extends
outwardly from two ends of moveable frame 4750.       When cover
4650 is moved downwardly into contact with moveable frame
4750,  latch 4658 slightly pivots and engages clip 4758
resulting in the retention of cover 4650 to frame 4750.
Cover 4650 has an elastomeric gasket 456      (see FIG. 7B) that
is retained in a groove 455    (see FIG. 7B).    Gasket 456 mates
with peripheral   lip 4760 of frame 4750 to form a seal
between cover 4650 and moveable frame 4750.       Other latches
can be used that secure and seal cover to moveable frame as
long as these latches    allow the operator to unlatch, remove
the cover and access contents inside container.
[000492]    Container assembly 4600 further includes a scissor
mechanism 4700.    Scissor mechanism 4700 is    received by
interior cavity 420 of container 4602 and rests on bottom
panel  407.   Scissor mechanism 4700 is used to raise and
                                164

lower frame 4750 during sterilization processing of
container assembly 4600.  Scissor mechanism 4700 comprises a
dog bone shaped skeleton 4710 that is    linked by a pair of
central cross-members 4712.    Skelton 4710 has opposed ends
4738 and 4739.   Skeleton 4710 and cross members 4712 define
three cavities 4713,  4714 and 4715 within skeleton 4710.
Four openings 4716 are defined in opposite ends of skeleton
4710.  Openings  4716 receive locking fingers 4717 that have
an attached slotted head 4718 that faces upwardly from the
top surface of skeleton 4710.     With skeleton 4710 resting on
container bottom panel 407,   slotted heads 4718 are rotated
using a tool such as a screwdriver forcing locking fingers
4717 into engagement with a retention feature     (not shown) on
the inside surface of sides walls 405 and 406.      The
engagement of locking fingers 4717 with the retention
features fixes skeleton 4710 to container 4602 and retains
scissor mechanism 4700 to container 4602.     In one
embodiment, skeleton is realesably secured to the bottom of
container.   In yet another embodiment, skeleton is     fastened
to bottom of container.   In all embodiments, skeleton is
coupled to container in a manner that allows the skeleton
and actuator system to create enough sealing force between
the moveable frame and container to prevent ingress      of
microorganisms.
[000493]   Sensor module 1050  is mounted in cavity 4713 and
retained to skeleton 4710 by retention means 4711.       Sensor
module 1050  is the same as previously described in FIG.     12B
except that an actuator driver circuit 4708 is     incorporated
into module 1050.
[000494]   Rotary actuator 4720 is mounted in cavity 4714.
Rotary actuator 4720 is attached to side sections 4721 of
skeleton 4710 by a C-shaped clamp 4722.     A threaded shaft
4723 extends perpendicularly away from one end of rotary
                               165

actuator 4720.   Rotary actuator 4720 can be rotated in
either a clockwise or counterclockwise rotation causing a
like a clockwise or counterclockwise rotation of threaded
shaft  4723.  Threaded shaft 4723 has a proximal end 4724
closest to actuator 4720,  a center section 4725 and a distal
end 4726.
[000495]   A moveable carriage 4730 is mounted in cavity
4715.   Moveable carriage 4730 includes a rectangular shaped
block 4731 that  is positioned in cavity 4715.   Block 4731
has a threaded center bore 4731 that extends entirely
through block 4731 and is perpendicular to shaft 4723.
Threaded shaft 4723 is  screwed into threaded bore 4731 and
extends out the distal side of block 4731.    The distal end
4726 of shaft 4723 is  received in a bearing 4732 that is
mounted in end 4739 of skeleton 4710.
[000496]   Two diametrically opposed rods  4734 are fixed to
and extend away from two ends of block 4731 in a
perpendicular manner.   Rods 4734 are received by
diametrically opposed slots 4719 that are defined in sides
of skeleton 4710 toward end 4739.   The travel of moveable
carriage 4730 in either direction is  limited by the abutment
of rods 4734 against the ends of slots 4731.
[000497]   Because rotary actuator 4720 is  fixed to skeleton
4710, clockwise rotation of threaded shaft 4723 causes block
4731 to move away from actuator 4720.   The counterclockwise
rotation of threaded shaft 4723 causes block 4731 to move
toward actuator 4720.
[000498]   Scissor mechanism 4700 further includes four
elongated arms 4770.   Each arm 4770 has a proximal end 4771,
a center section 4772 and a distal end 4773.    Apertures 4775
are defined through each respective proximal end 4771,
center section 4772 and distal end 4773.    Each aperture 4775
receives a retaining member 4776.
                              166

[000499]   At skeleton end 4738,  the lower arms proximal end
4771 retaining member 4776 has a pin 4777 that extends into
a hole 4778 in skeleton 4710.    Pin 4777 allows the lower arm
proximal ends 4771 to rotate with respect to skeleton 4710.
[000500]   At frame end 4756, the upper arms proximal end
4771 retaining members 4776 are received into holes    (not
shown) that extend into frame 4750.    Retaining members 4776
allow the upper arm proximal ends 4772 to rotate with
respect to frame 4750.   In center section 4772,  retaining
member 4776 pivotally attaches the two crossing arms 4770.
Retaining member 4776 allows the two arms 4470 to rotate
with respect to each other.
[000501]   At skeleton end 4739, the lower arms distal ends
4773 have apertures 4775 through which rods 4734 extend.
Rods 4734 extend through distal ends   4773 and terminate   in
slots  4719.    Apertures 4775 are dimensioned to be slightly
larger than rods 4734 to allow the lower arm distal ends
4773 to rotate with respect to skeleton 4710.
[000502]   At frame end 4757, the upper arm distal ends 4773
retaining members 4776 have pins 4777 that are received by
slots  4761 that extend into frame 4750.   Pins 477 extend
perpendicularly away from distal arm ends   4773.  Slots 4761
are dimensioned to be slightly larger than pins 4777 to
allow pins 4777 to slide in slots 4761.    Also, apertures
4775 are dimensioned to be slightly larger than pins 4777 to
allow the upper arm distal ends   4773 to rotate with respect
to skeleton frame 4750.
[000503]   The perimeter of moveable frame 4750 defines a
central opening 4752.   With additional reference to FIG. 48,
a cross- sectional view of moveable frame 4750 is shown.
Moveable frame 4750 includes an upwardly extending wall 4762
that terminates  in lip 4760.  Two spaced apart walls 4764
and 4765 extend downward from frame   4750 defining a channel
                              167

4766 there between.   Channel 4766 receives an elastomeric
split  lip gasket or seal 4777.   Gasket or seal 4777 is split
into two lips that define a groove 4778.     When moveable
frame  4750 is lowered by scissors mechanism 4700 onto
container 4602,  gasket 4777 receives and engages rim 413 in
groove 4778 forming a seal between frame    4750 and container
4602.
[000504]   Container assembly 4600 further includes several
sensors  to detect the opening and closing of moveable frame
4750 or the insertion and removal of cover 4650.     A close
position micro-switch or limit   switch 4810 is mounted to
skeleton end 4739 facing into cavity 4715.     An open position
micro-switch or limit switch 4812 is mounted to cross-member
4712 facing into cavity 4715.    Micro-switches 4810 and 4812
are in communication with electronic sensor module 1050 via
an electrical cable 4814.
[000505]   When moveable frame 4750 moves to a closed
position, one side of block 4731 contacts and closes micro
switch 4810.   When moveable frame 4750 moves to an open
position, another side of block 4731 contacts and closes
micro-switch 4812.   When moveable frame 4750 is   in the open
position, a passage 4830 is  created between container 4602
and frame 4750.   Processor 1020  (FIG. 13)  can interpret the
signals  from micro-switches 4810 and 4812 to determine the
position of moveable frame 4750.
[000506]   A Hall Effect sensor 4820 is mounted to the inner
surface of frame wall 4762 facing opening 4752.     Hall Effect
sensor 4820 is in communication with electronic sensor
module 1050 via an electrical cable 4822.     A magnet 4824
 (FIG. 46) is attached to the raised flange 4654 of cover
4650 opposite latch 4658.
[000507]   When cover 4650 is placed over and attached to
moveable frame 4750,  magnet 4824 is positioned in proximity
                              168

to Hall Effect sensor 4820.     Hall Effect  sensor 4820 detects
the magnetic field generated by magnet 4824 and transmits an
electrical signal indicating a detected magnetic field to
processor  1020  (FIG. 13).   When cover 4650 is removed from
moveable frame 4750,   magnet 4824 is positioned away from
Hall Effect sensor 4820.     Hall Effect sensor 4820 detects
the absence of a magnetic field and transmits an electrical
signal  indicating no detected magnetic field to processor
1020.     Processor 1020 uses the electrical signal to
determine the position of cover 4650.
XXVII. Operational Method to Determine If
        Validated Sterilization Process Measurements
        Have Been Achieved During a Sterilization
        Process Using an Automatic Closing Container
        With Scissor Lifting and Lowering Mechanism
[000508]   Referring to FIG. 49,    a flowchart of a method 4900
of determining if validated sterilization process
measurements within a container have been achieved during a
sterilization process using automatic closing container
assembly 4600 is   shown.   Method 4900 illustrates an
exemplary method by which container assembly 4600 and
electronic sensor module 1050 presented within the preceding
figures perform different aspects of the processes that
enable one or more embodiments of the disclosure.       In the
discussion of FIG. 49,    reference will also be made to
components  from FIGS.   46-48.
[000509]   Method 4900 begins at step 4902, where if the
moveable frame 4750 is    not in the open position, processor
1020 is  triggered to move frame 4750 to the open position.
In one embodiment, container assembly 4600 is placed on
docking station 1300    (FIG. 16)  and communicatively coupled
to docking station 1300 using connector 1338      (FIG. 16) and
                                169

cable 1340   (FIG. 16)  that are connected to connector 1032       of
electronic sensor unit 1050.     Docking station processor 1410
 (FIG. 17) in communication with container processor 1020,
queries container processor 1020      as to the position of
moveable frame 4750.     If the moveable frame 4750 is not      in
the open position, processor 1410      transmits a signal
triggering processor 1020 to cause rotary actuator 4720 to
rotate threaded shaft 4723 in a counterclockwise manner.
[000510]   The rotation of threaded shaft      4723 in a
counterclockwise manner causes a linear movement of block
4731 in a proximal direction toward actuator 4720,         which in
turn causes scissor arms 4770 to move moveable frame 4750
upwardly away from the rim 413 of container 4602.          In one
embodiment, the contact of the proximal side of block 4731
with open position micro-switch 4812 triggers processor 1020
to turn off rotary actuator 4720.       Frame 4720 is now in an
open position where sterilant can enter container 4602
through passage 4830 during sterilization processing.          In an
alternate embodiment, container assembly is placed in
sterilizer chamber with moveable frame in a closed state.
In this embodiment a signal from controller 1020        lifts and
opens  frame during the sterilization process occurring
within sterilizer 52.
[000511]    At step 4904,   sensor module 1050    is programmed
with validated sterilization process measurements         (VSPM)
1150.   Memory 1022   (FIG. 14) is programmed with specific
validated sterilization process measurements        (VSPM) 1150.
Container programming software 1461       (FIG. 17)  executing on
docking station processor 1410      (FIG. 17)  identifies the
specific VSPM 1150   associated with the container equipment
load, optionally using the data obtained from handheld
reader 1240   (FIG. 44),  and transmits the VSPM 1150      for
storage on container memory 1022.       The transmitted VSPM 1150
                                170

are specific to the equipment load to be sterilized.        The
connector 1338 and cable 1340 are then disconnected from
connector 1032.
[000512]   The equipment load of surgical instruments 180       is
prepared for sterilization processing by an operator.        At
step 4906, the surgical instruments     180 are placed into tray
4620 and tray 4620 is placed into container 4602.        If no
instrument rack is required per the content ID,      instruments
are placed inside container without a instrument rack.
Cover 4650 is attached and closed to moveable frame 4750 via
the latching of latch 4658 to clip 4758      (step 4908).   Cover
4650 is  now sealed to moveable frame 4750.
[000513]   The container 4602 is placed into the
sterilization chamber 52     (FIG. 1) at step 4910 and the
sterilization process cycle within sterilization chamber 52
is started   (block 4912).    During the sterilization process
cycle, the sterilization chamber runs the nominal
sterilization process by introducing a sterilization agent,
such as steam or hydrogen peroxide gas into the
sterilization chamber.     The sterilization agent enters and
exits through passage 4830 created when moveable frame is
not in the closed and sealed position.      The sterilization
process cycle may also include a cool down phase and drawing
a vacuum on the chamber to remove any residual condensed
sterilant.    In one embodiment, the sterilization agent is
removed from the contents of the container through passage
4830 by maintaining the moveable frame in a open position
during this phase of the sterilization process.       The
sterilization chamber is set to operate using a set of
chamber process parameters     (CPP) 66 (FIG. 1).   CPP 66 are
the set of nominal process parameter settings for the
sterilization chamber to operate using CPP 66.
                                 171

[000514]   Also,   at step 4912,   sterilization        verification
software 1152    (FIG.  14) executing on processor 1020 monitors
and collects real time data from the respective electronic
sensors  in sensor module 1050 during the sterilization
process cycle.     The sensors monitor the operating process
measurements   and conditions within their respective
container.    The collected real time operating data is stored
in memory 1022 as data 1156      (FIG. 14).         For example,
sterilization verification     software 1152 executing on
processor  1020 collects water vapor data from water vapor
sensor 1024, pressure data from pressure sensor 1026,
temperature data from temperature sensor 1028 and hydrogen
peroxide concentration data from hydrogen peroxide gas
sensor 1052.    All of the data recorded during the
sterilization process is stored as data 1156 in memory 1022.
[000515]   Sterilization verification            software 1152 executing
on processor 1020     at step 4914 compares the observed real
time data 1156, collected during the sterilization process
cycle, to VSPM 1150.      At decision step 4916, sterilization
verification software 1152     operating on processor              1020
determines if the measured data 1156 during the performed
sterilization process meets or exceeds the minimum or
threshold VSPM 1150 values for each operating parameter to
insure sterilization of the container contents.                   For
example, if VSPM 1150 has a minimum temperature and time
value of 250 degrees Fahrenheit for 20 minutes,
sterilization verification     software 1152 compares these
values to the recorded time and temperature values                   in data
1156.
[000516]   In response to the recorded data 1156 values
meeting or exceeding the minimum or threshold VSPM 1150
values for each sterilization operating parameter indicating
sterilization of the container contents, method 4900
                                  172

proceeds to step 4920.   At step 4920, processor 1020
triggers rotary actuator 4720 to rotate threaded shaft 4723
in a clockwise manner.   In an alternate embodiment after
VSPM data have been verified, sterilization verification
software keeps passage 4830 open to affect sterilization
agent removal from the container contents prior to closing
passage with moveable frame.    In this embodiment, closing
signal  can be sent from controller based on a specific time
interval following the lethal sterilization part of the
cycle or after a certain sensor monitored signal indicating
sterilization agent removal is complete.
[000517]   The clockwise rotation of threaded shaft  4723
causes a linear movement of block 4731 in a distal direction
toward skeleton end 4739, which in turn causes scissor arms
4770 to move moveable frame 4750 downwardly into engagement
with rim 413 of container 4602.    In one embodiment, the
contact of the distal side of block 4731 with closed
position micro-switch 4810 triggers processor 1020 to turn
off rotary actuator 4720.
[000518]   Moveable frame 4720 is  now sealed to container
4602 and is  in the closed position.   The lid being in the
closed state functions as indication that the load in the
container is properly sterilized.    The contents of container
assembly 4600 are now in a sealed sterile state and are
ready for storage. In this basic execution of method 4900,
residual sterilant vents from the container, through
microbial barriers into the ambient environment.
[000519]   In response to the recorded data 1156 indicating
that the environmental measurements did not meet the VSPM
1150, the processor, as represented by step 4922,   holds the
frame  in the open position.  The frame 4750 being in the
open state,  serves as an indication that the contents of the
container were not properly sterilized.
                              173

[000520]   During storage, processor 1020 executes a set of
instructions such as sterile monitor software 1158     (FIG. 14)
that causes processor 1020   to monitor the electrical signal
received from Hall Effect   sensor 4820  (FIG. 47)  during
storage.   If cover 4650 is  opened, the electrical signal
from Hall Effect sensor 4820 changes, triggering processor
1020 to move the moveable frame 4750 to the open position.
In an alternate embodiment, sterile monitor software flashes
an LED instead of opening the moveable frame.      The moveable
frame  4750,  in the open position, indicates to a technician
that the contents of the container 2602 are no longer
considered to be sterile.
[000521]   In one alternative version of this embodiment,
after the sensor module measures the environmental
characteristics in the container after the sterilizing
portion of the sterilization process is executed.      This
monitoring occurs after the evaluation of step 4916
indicates that the load in the container is properly
sterilized.    During this phase of operation, the sensors
measure the extent to which residual sterilant is still
present in the container.    The processor, based on these
measurements, determines it the residual sterilant is at or
below an acceptable level.    When the processor determines
that the container is   in this state,  the processor then
executes step 4920 so as cause the frame to close so as to
seal the container.
XXVIII. Operational Method to Verify Sterilization Process
Parameters   in a Container during a Steam Sterilization
Process
[000522]   Referring to FIG. 50,   a flowchart of a method 5000
of determining if verified sterilization process
measurements within a container have been achieved during a
                               174

steam sterilization process is     shown.   Method 5000
illustrates  an exemplary method by which any of the
container assemblies 90,    300, 400, 500,    600, 700 and 800
 (90-800) and electronic sensor modules 200,      460, 560,  660,
760,  850, 950,  1000, 1050 and 1080    (200-1080) presented
within the preceding figures perform different aspects of
the processes that enable one or more embodiments of the
disclosure.    Method 5000 is  described specifically as being
performed using container assembly 400       (FIG. 7A) and sensor
module 1050   (FIG. 12B).   However, method 5000 can be
performed using any of container assemblies       90-800 and
electronic sensor modules 200-1080.       The description of the
method is provided with general reference to the specific
components  illustrated within the preceding figures.        In the
discussion of FIG. 50,    reference will also be made to
components  from FIGS.   7A, 12B and 15.
[000523]   Generally method 5000 is described as being
implemented via container processor 1020 and particularly
the execution of code provided by software/firmware modules
acting within processor 1020.      It is however appreciated
that certain aspects of the described methods may be
implemented via other processing devices and/or execution of
other code.
[000524]   Method 5000 begins at step 5002 where the
equipment load of surgical instruments 180       is prepared for
sterilization processing by an operator.        Step 5002 includes
the positioning of container 402     onto docking station 1200
or 1300  and if the container has    a connector, connecting the
corresponding connector 485,    1032  to the docking station.
At step 5002,   the handheld reader 1240    is used to scan
container 402,   tray 160 and the surgical instruments 180      to
be sterilized.    At step 5006, the surgical instruments are
placed into tray 160,    tray 160  is placed into container 402
                                175

and the cover 450   is attached and latched closed.      During
the loading of surgical instruments,      180,  the operator
refers to the display screen 1260     shown by docking station
1200 or 1300  to view the correct equipment load and
orientation.
[000525]  In an optional step 5004,      the sensors  of
electronic sensor module 1050 are calibrated prior to use.
Electronic sensor modules 1050     is calibrated using docking
station 1300.
[000526]  At step 5008,    the memory 1022 within container 402
is programmed with specific verified steam sterilization
process parameters    (VSPP) 1150.   Container programming
software 1461   (FIG. 17)  executing on docking station
processor 1410   (FIG. 17)  identifies the specific VSPP 1150
associated with the container equipment load, using the data
obtained from handheld reader 1240, and transmits the VSPP
1150 via the connector 485 for storage on the container
memory 1022.   The transmitted VSPP     1150 are specific to the
equipment load within the container to be sterilized.
[000527]  In the steam sterilization example of FIG. 50,        the
VSPM 1150 include:
1.   Temperature Range Indicative Of
     Saturated Steam:     1320C    Tsat    1350C
2.   Time Period Exposed Saturated Steam:        t  4 minutes
3.   Acceptable Range of Temperature Differences Between
     Calculated Temperature of Saturated Steam
     And Measured Temperature       1.6'C
4.   Range of Temperature Differences Between
     Measured Temperatures At Spaced Apart Locations
     In The Container That Indicates The Load
     Is Surrounded By Saturated Steam       i  1.6'C.
                                176

[000528]    In an additional  optional step at block 5010,    is
the processor 1020   turning on a yellow light emitting diode
 (LED) of LEDS 1030.   This  is to indicate the container
assembly has   not cycled through the sterilization process.
[000529]    In step 5102 the container 402    is placed into the
sterilization chamber 52.     Step 5014 is the starting of the
sterilization process.     During the sterilization process,
the sterilization chamber is heated, pressurized and a steam
sterilant is   introduced into the sterilization chamber.       The
sterilization process cycle also includes a cool down phase
and drawing a vacuum on the chamber to remove any residual
condensed sterilant.    The sterilization chamber is     set to
operate using a set of chamber process parameters       (CPP) 66
 (FIG. 1).   CPP 66 are the set of process parameter settings
within the sterilization chamber.      The sterilization chamber
is  set to operate using the CPP 66.
[000530]   Also, at step 5014, processor    1020 running
sterilization verification    software 1152 monitors and
collects real time data from the respective electronic
sensors with which it is in communication during the
sterilization process cycle.     The sensors monitor the
characteristics of the environment in the container in which
the sensors   are mounted.   The collected measurements, which
are time based are stored in memory 1022 as data 1156.        For
example, processor 1020    collects humidity data from humidity
sensor 1024, pressure data from pressure sensor 1026,
temperature data from temperature sensor 1028 and time data.
The temperature data includes recording the temperature
during the incoming steam phase     (Tsteam),  the temperature of
the load   (Tsurrogate) and the temperature of the steam laden
atmosphere within the air detection lumen       (Tair detector).
The temperature of the load is referred to as a surrogate
temperature because it can be difficult to provide sensors
                                177

that monitor the temperature of the load.    Instead, the
sensors monitor the void near the load.    The surrogate
temperature should thus be considered substantially equal to
if not identical to the actual temperature of the load.     The
temperature of this void is  considered a surrogate for the
temperature of the load.   All of the data recorded during
the sterilization process is stored as data 1156 in memory
1022.
[000531]  At step 5016, processor 1020   running sterilization
verification software 1152  compares the observed real time
data 1156, collected during the sterilization process cycle,
to VSPM 1150 limits.
[000532]  At decision step 5018, processor 1020   determines
if the real time measured data 1156 during the performed
steam sterilization process are within the VSPP 1150   limits
for each operating parameter to insure sterilization of the
container contents.
[000533]  If the measured environmental characteristics meet
or the VSPM, the processor executes   step 5024.  Step 5024 is
identical to previously described step 2122.
[000534]  The measured environmental characteristics may not
meet the VSPM for the load.   If this condition exists, the
processor executes step 5022.    Step 5022 is understood is
identical to step 2126.
[000535]  In response to the sterilization process cycle not
being completed at step 5020, method 5000 returns to step
5016 where processor 1020 continues monitoring and recording
sterilization process operating parameters during the
sterilization process cycle.
[000536]  In response to the sterilization process cycle
being complete at step 5020, processor 1020   indicates that
the container contents have not successfully completed
sterilization processing and are not sterile by turning on a
                              178

red LED such as red LED of LEDS     1030 at step 5022.   Method
5000 then ends.
[000537]   FIG. 51  illustrates an example graph 5100 of
process parameter measurements taken by sensor module 1050
inside container 402 of instruments that were processed
using a steam sterilization process.      Only the exposure
phase measurements are shown in the graph.      FIG. 51  shows a
graph 5100 of temperature and pressure versus time.       The
measurements  include Tsteam   (Tmeasured) or Tload 5102,    Tair
detector 5106 and pressure 5108.      The graph also includes a
superimposed graph of the calculated temperature for
saturated steam   (Tsat 5104) based upon the pressure
measurement within the container.
XXIX. Operational Method to Verify Sterilization Process
Parameters  in a Container during a Hydrogen Peroxide
Sterilization Process
[000538]   Figure 52 is  a flowchart of a method 5200 for
determining validated sterilization process measurements       for
a load sterilized using vaporized hydrogen peroxide
sterilization process is shown.      Method 5200 illustrates   an
exemplary method by which the container assemblies      400,  500,
600, 700  and 800  (400-800) and electronic sensor modules
460, 560,  660, 760,  850, 950,   1000, 1050 and 1080  (460-1080)
presented within the preceding figures perform different
aspects of the processes that enable one or more embodiments
of the disclosure.    Method 5200 is described specifically as
being performed using container assembly 400      (FIG. 7A) and
sensor module 1050   (FIG. 12B).    However, method 5200 can be
performed using any of container assemblies 400-800      and
electronic sensor modules 460-1080.      The description of the
method is provided with general reference to the specific
components  illustrated within the preceding figures.      In the
                                179

discussion of FIG. 52,   reference will also be made to
components  from FIGS.  7A, 12B and 15.
[000539]   Generally method 5200 is described as being
implemented via container processor 1020 and particularly
the execution of code provided by software/firmware modules
acting within processor 1020.     It is however appreciated
that certain aspects of the described methods may be
implemented via other processing devices and/or execution of
other code.
[000540]   Method 5200 begins at step 5202 where the
equipment load of surgical instruments 180    is prepared for
sterilization processing by an operator.     Step 5202 includes
the positioning of container 402    onto docking station 1200
or 1300  and if the container has   a connector, connecting the
corresponding connector 485,   1032  to the docking station.
At step 5202,   the handheld reader 1240  is used to scan
container 402,   tray 160 and the surgical instruments 180   to
be sterilized.    At step 5206, the surgical instruments are
placed into tray 160,   tray 160  is placed into container 402
and the cover 450   is attached and latched closed.   During
the loading of surgical instruments,    180, the operator
refers to the display screen 1260    shown by docking station
1200 or 1300  to view the correct equipment load and
orientation.
[000541]   In an optional step 5204,   the sensors of
electronic sensor module 1050 are calibrated prior to use.
Electronic sensor module 1050 is    calibrated using docking
station 1300.
[000542]   At step 5208,  the memory 1022 is  loaded with
verified hydrogen peroxide sterilization process
measurements   (VSPM) 1150.  Container programming software
1461  (FIG. 17)  executing on docking station processor 1410
 (FIG. 17) identifies the specific VSPP 1150   associated with
                               180

the container equipment load, using the data obtained from
handheld reader 1240,    and transmits the VSPP     1150 via the
connector 485 for storage on the container memory 1022.          The
transmitted VSPP 1150    are specific to the equipment load
within the container to be sterilized.
[000543]   In the hydrogen peroxide sterilization example of
FIG. 52,  the VSPM 1150   include:
1. Minimum Pre-Injection Pressure:       Ppre-inject     0.8 Torr
2. Vapor Compression Pressure:      300 Torr    PVC    450 Torr
3. Vapor Temp Limits:     200C    Tvapor   500C
4. Time Integrated H202 *Concentration       (AREA) Limits:
     H202 Vapor AREA > 2500 mg-s/l
5. H20 Saturation Limits during Exposure:
     H20 actual/H20 saturation > 0.8
[000544]   In an additional    optional step at block 5210,
sterilization verification     software 1152 executing on
processor  1020 turns on a yellow light emitting diode        (LED)
of LEDS 1030   indicating to a user that the container
assembly has   not yet been processed through a sterilization
process cycle.
[000545]   Next, the container 402     is placed into the
sterilization chamber 52     (FIG. 1) at step 5212 and the
sterilization process cycle within sterilization chamber 52
is started   (block 5214).    During the sterilization process
cycle, the sterilization chamber is heated, pressurized and
a hydrogen peroxide sterilant is pumped into the
sterilization chamber.     The sterilization process cycle also
includes a cool down phase and drawing a vacuum on the
chamber to remove any residual condensed sterilant.         The
sterilization chamber is set to operate using a set of
chamber process parameters     (CPP) 66.
                                 181

[000546]   Also, at step 5214, processor     1020 records the
time based measurements of the environmental characteristics
received from the sensors.
[000547]   The recorded temperature measurements     are
understood to include the temperature of the hydrogen
peroxide vapor   (Tvapor).  All of the data recorded during
the sterilization process is stored as data 1156 in memory
1022.
[000548]   At step 5216, processor 1020     running sterilization
verification software 1152   compares the measured
environmental characteristics to the VSPM 1150.       An
exemplary set of VSPM 1150   for a load that sterilized with
vaporized hydrogen peroxide process is:
1. Pre-Injection Pressure:     Ppre-inject     0.8 Torr
2. Vapor Compression Pressure:     300 Torr    PVC   450 Torr
3. Load Temp:   200C    Tvapor   500C
4. Time Integrated H202 *Concentration      (AREA):
      H202 Vapor AREA > 2500 mg-s/l
5. H20 Saturation during Exposure:
      H20 actual/H20 saturation > 0.8
[000549]   At decision step 5218, processor 1020     determines
if the measured environmental characteristics meet or exceed
the VSPM 1150  for the load.    The third validated measurement
above is an area under a time based curve of concentration.
Part of step 5218 includes integrating the individual H202
concentrations taken over a time period to determine the
integrated value of these measurements.
[000550]   In response to the measured environmental
characteristics meeting the VSPM, processor 1020      executes
step 5224 which is identical to previously described
step 2122.
                                182

[000551]  Alternatively in step 5216 it may be determined
that the measured environmental characteristics did not meet
the VSPM 115 for the load    If this condition exists, the
processor executes step 5222 which is     identical to
previously described step 2128.
[000552]  FIG. 53  illustrates an example graph 5300 of
process parameter measurements taken by sensor module 1050
inside container 402 of instruments that     sterilized with
hydrogen peroxide.   The pressure measurements are graphed
using a scale that places the pressure measurements during
the vapor compression phase    (which are around 400 Torr) off
the visible part of the graph.      In the graph 5300 of
temperature and pressure   (left axis) versus time and
hydrogen peroxide and water vapor concentration      (right axis)
versus time.  The measurements     include the temperature of
the hydrogen peroxide vapor    (Tsertilant vapor) 5304,   the
pressure in the container prior to vapor injection      (Pre
injection pressure) 5312,   the hydrogen peroxide
concentration 5308 and the water vapor concentration 5310.
[000553]  The measurements   of a number of the environmental
characteristics are shown as being made repeatedly over the
time period of the sterilization process.      These are the
measurements used in step 5216 to determine the integrated
area under the hydrogen peroxide curve.      These measurements
are also used to determine the presence of the saturated
water vapor.
[000554]  The environmental measurements of Figure 53 are
the measurements  that are compared to the VSPM 1150.      As a
result of this comparison, the processor determines that
four of the measured environmental characteristics met the
validated measurements  associated with these
characteristics.   Specifically the vaporized hydrogen
peroxide was compressed to a pressure of 400 Torr when the
                                183

validate measurement  for this compression is the range of
300  to 450 Torr.  The vapor state hydrogen peroxide was at
measured to fluctuate at a temperatures between 36 and 380C
when the validate measurement for this temperature is the
range of 20  to 50'C.   The integrated vaporized hydrogen
peroxide over time was  2846 mg-s/l.   The validated
measurement  for this characteristic is a value of at least
2500 mg-s/l.   The fifth measured environmental
characteristic is  the ratio of total water vapor present to
water saturation was calculated at 1.63.    The test
sterilization processes for this load showed that the
minimal validated measurement for this characteristic is
0.8.
[000555]   However, the pre-injection pressure measured
during the process was  1.5 Torr.   The VSPM for this load
indicated that the maximum level of this pressure is   0.8
Torr. Consequently when evaluating these data, in step 5218
the processor determines that not all the required validated
sterilization measurements were met.    The processor 1020
thus would execute step 5222 to provide an indication that
the load was  not satisfactorily sterilized.
[000556]   The containers may have other structural  features.
For example the control buttons may be mounted to the sensor
module.   Conductors that extend from the module connect the
buttons to the on container electrical devices controlled by
the buttons.
[000557]   In some versions of the invention breakable,
frangible single use tamper evident devices may be fitted to
the containers of this invention.    The states of these
devices provide visual indicia of the unbroken/broken state
of the seal around the container.    These devices may be used
in addition to or a substitute   for the electronic devices
                              184

described above that provide indicia of the unbroken/broken
seal state.
[000558]   Sensors other than Hall sensors may be used to
detect the open/closed state of a container lid.    These
sensors  include mechanical switches and magnetoresistive
transducers.
[000559]   Likewise the sensor containers that measure the
concentration of gas are a function of the type of
sterilizer with which the containers  are used.   Some sensors
thus monitor the concentration of sterilizing gases such as
ozone or ethylene oxide.   If a sterilizing process involves
introducing plural gases into a container the container will
have one or more sensors capable of monitoring the
concentrations of each of the gases.   A single sensor
assembly is  all that is required if the sensor assembly is
able to measure and output signals representative of the
concentrations of the plural gases employed in the
sterilization process.
[000560]   It should thus be appreciated that the sensors
that monitor gas concentration are not limited to sensors
that function by monitoring the absorption of light at a
selected wavelength.   Alternative sensors  that output
signals  that vary as a function of the concentration of the
gas measured by the sensor may be integrated into
alternative versions of this invention.    These include, for
example, transducers that change in either resistance or
capacitance as a function of the concentration of target
gas.
[000561]   In a version of the invention with a removable
sensor module the sensor module may include components such
as switches that are tripped when the module is   correctly
installed.   The tripping of the switch causes a light to be
illuminated that indicates the unit is correctly installed.
                              185

[000562]  Likewise, the removable sensor modules of this
invention can be placed in a calibration chamber without
having to first place the sensor modules in  containers.
[000563]  Therefore, it is an object of the appended claims
to cover all such variations and modifications that come
within the true spirit and scope of this invention.
                             186

Documntm2-26
          04/2018
Claims
1.          A     sterilization          container      assembly,      said   sterilization
container assembly comprising:
            a       sterilization           container        for   holding       a     surgical
instrument,                 said     sterilization        container      formed       to    allow
sterilant to enter and residual sterilant to exit so that the
surgical             instrument        in    said  sterilization         container        can  be
subjected to a sterilization process,
                       wherein        said     sterilization          container          further
comprises a sensor module receiver; and
            a     removable         sensor    module      connectable      to    said      sensor
module receiver, with said removable sensor module comprising,
                       a   sensor       for    measuring        a characteristic          of  the
            environment inside said sterilization container during the
             sterilization               process         and       generating            signals
            representative                 of     the          measured       environmental
            characteristic.
2.          The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
1,      wherein             said    sterilization         container      assembly        further
comprises a tamper evident sterile barrier monitoring system.
3.          The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
any        preceding            claim,    wherein     said      removable    sensor       module
comprises a memory and a processor, with said memory programmed
with a validated sterilization process measurement.
4.          The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
3, wherein said processor compares said sensed environmental
measurement                   within      said    container         to    said        validated
sterilization process measurement.
                                                  187

          04/2018
Documntm2-26
5.          The sterilization container assembly as                         set forth in any
preceding claim, wherein said removable                           sensor module further
comprises a sensor case.
6.          The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
5,     wherein        said   removable           sensor    module    comprises          a  circuit
board assembly that is mounted to said sensor case.
7.          The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
6,     wherein        said   sterilization             container     further       comprises       a
container printed               circuit board, with said container printed
circuit           board   comprising           a   container    printed        circuit         board
memory.
8.          The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
7,      wherein        said   circuit         board     assembly      and     said      container
printed           circuit    board         are     configured     such       that      when     said
removable            sensor   module        is     removed   from     said     sensor        module
receiver, said container printed circuit board memory contains
information obtained from said circuit board assembly of said
removable           sensor module.
9.          The sterilization container assembly as                         set forth in any
one        of     claims    6-8,      wherein         said  sensor       case      comprises       a
connector passage that is                      dimensioned to receive a connector
that is attached to said circuit board assembly.
10.         The sterilization container assembly as                         set forth in any
one         of    claims     5-9,       wherein        said   sensor       module         receiver
comprises a receiver housing, and wherein said receiver housing
and said sensor case cooperate as a key and keyway to properly
align and index said sensor case with respect to said sensor
module receiver.
                                                    188

          04/2018
Documntm2-26
11.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
1,      wherein        said    removable           sensor    module    further    comprises
removable           sensor    module       contacts,        wherein   said   sensor module
receiver comprises sensor module receiver contacts, and wherein
said removable              sensor module contacts               and said sensor module
receiver            contacts      are       configured        to   mate    to   communicate
information when said removable sensor module is connected to
said sensor module receiver.
12.         The sterilization container assembly as                       set forth in any
preceding           claim,    wherein        said     sensor    comprises    a water  vapor
sensor,            a    pressure         sensor,         a    temperature      sensor,    or
combinations thereof.
13.         The sterilization container assembly as                       set forth in any
one of claims 1-11,                wherein said sensor is an optical sensor.
14.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
13,       wherein       said   optical          sensor     comprises    an  emitter   and  a
detector.
15.         The sterilization container assembly as                       set forth in any
preceding claim, wherein said removable sensor module and said
sensor module receiver are configured such that said removable
sensor module             is   removable          from    said   sensor    module  receiver
while           maintaining      a     sterile        state    environment     inside  said
sterilization container.
16.         The sterilization container assembly as                       set forth in any
preceding           claim,    wherein        said     sensor    module   receiver   further
comprises           a lock mechanism movable between a locked position
and an unlocked position, and wherein when said sterilization
container            assembly     is     sterilized         and   said   removable   sensor
module is removed from said sensor module receiver, said lock
                                                    189

Documntm2-26
          04/2018
mechanism is configured to maintain a sterile state environment
inside of               said sterilization container.
17.         The sterilization container assembly as                           set forth in any
one of claims 1-15, wherein said sensor module receiver further
comprises               a lock mechanism movable between a locked position
and an unlocked position, and wherein when said lock mechanism
is in said locked position said lock mechanism is configured to
be manually actuated from within said sterilization container
to be moved into said unlocked position.
18.         The sterilization container assembly as                           set forth in any
preceding claim, wherein said removable                                 sensor module further
comprises a battery.
19.         The sterilization container assembly as                           set forth in any
preceding claim, wherein said removable                                 sensor module further
comprises a wireless transceiver.
20.         A     sterilization          container         assembly,       said   sterilization
container assembly comprising:
            a       sterilization          container             for    holding      a       surgical
instrument,                   said  sterilization             container      formed       to     allow
sterilant to enter and residual sterilant to exit                                     so that the
surgical              instrument       in   said      sterilization          container         can   be
subjected to a sterilization process;
            a        removable         sensor         module          connectable         to      said
sterilization                   container,    with        said      removable    sensor         module
comprising,
            a           sensor      for   measuring             a    characteristic           of   the
environment                  inside   said   sterilization              container      during      the
sterilization process and generating signals representative of
the measured environmental characteristic, and
            a battery.
                                                     190

          04/2018
Documntm2-26
21.         A     method    for    sterilizing           medical     devices,       said       method
comprising:
            providing a sterilization container assembly comprising a
sterilization container and a removable sensor module, with the
removable             sensor    module        comprising       a   sensor    for measuring           a
characteristic               of   the       environment        inside    the     sterilization
container              during    the       sterilization          process     and      generating
signals               representative              of     the     measured        environmental
characteristic;
            loading       a   surgical           instrument       into   the     sterilization
container;
            processing        the    surgical        instrument      with    a   sterilization
process cycle;
            measuring a characteristic of the environment inside the
sterilization container with the removable sensor module during
the sterilization process cycle;                           and
            removing the removable sensor module from container after
the       sterilization          process          cycle    while    maintaining          a   sterile
state inside of the sterilization container.
22.         The method as          set      forth     in  claim 21,     further        comprising
programming              the    removable           sensor    module     with       a    validated
sterilization process measurement.
23.         The method as          set      forth     in  claim 22,     further        comprising
comparing the data collected during the sterilization process
cycle with the validated sterilization process measurement.
24.         The method as          set      forth     in  claim 23,     further        comprising
indicating that the surgical instrument has been successfully
sterilized based on the comparison between the data collected
during            the    sterilization             process     cycle   and      the      validated
sterilization process measurement.
                                                     191

          04/2018
Documntm2-26
25.         A     sterilization container assembly comprising:
            a      container    for   holding        a    surgical    instrument,          said
container             formed   to   allow    sterilant        to   enter    and       residual
sterilant to exit so that the instrument in said container can
be subjected to a sterilization process;                          and
            a sensor for measuring a characteristic of the environment
in the container.
26.         The sterilization container assembly of claim 25,                         wherein:
             said container comprises a sensor module receiver;
            the sterilization container assembly further comprises a
removable             sensor   module     connectable         to   said   sensor         module
receiver,            the  removable     sensor module          comprising      the     sensor;
and
            the sensor is        configured to measure a              characteristic of
the        environment       in    the    container        during    the   sterilization
process, and to generate signals representative of the measured
environmental characteristic.
27.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
25 or 26,            further comprising a tamper-evident sterile barrier
monitoring system.
28.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
26,       or      claim 27   as   appended      thereto,      wherein    said      removable
sensor module             comprises     a   memory       and  a  processor,        with    said
memory             programmed    with     a  validated          sterilization          process
measurement.
29.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
28, wherein said processor compares the measured environmental
characteristic              within      said      container        to   said       validated
sterilization process measurement.
                                               192

          04/2018
Documntm2-26
30.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
26, or any one of claims 27 to 29 as appended thereto, wherein
said removable                 sensor module further comprises a sensor case.
31.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
30,      wherein           said   removable        sensor module     comprises     a  circuit
board assembly that is mounted to said sensor case.
32.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
31,        wherein           said     container       further    comprises      a  container
printed            circuit       board,      with     said   container   printed      circuit
board comprising a container printed circuit board memory.
33.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
32,       wherein           said    circuit       board   assembly   and   said    container
printed             circuit      board       are    configured     such   that    when     said
removable              sensor     module       is   removed    from  said    sensor     module
receiver, said container printed circuit board memory contains
information obtained from said circuit board assembly of said
removable             sensor module.
34.         The sterilization container assembly as                      set forth in any
one of            claims 31       to 33,      wherein said sensor case comprises              a
connector passage that is                         dimensioned to receive a connector
that is attached to said circuit board assembly.
35.         The sterilization container assembly as                      set forth in any
one       of      claims      30   to    34,   wherein     said  sensor   module     receiver
comprises a receiver housing, and wherein said receiver housing
and said sensor case cooperate as a key and keyway to align and
index           said      sensor      case    with     respect   to  said    sensor     module
receiver.
                                                     193

          04/2018
Documntm2-26
36.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
26,       wherein       said    removable       sensor   module    further       comprises
removable            sensor   module       contacts,   wherein    said      sensor module
receiver comprises sensor module receiver contacts, and wherein
said removable             sensor module contacts            and said sensor module
receiver             contacts     are      configured     to   mate     to    communicate
information when said removable sensor module is connected to
said sensor module receiver.
37.         The sterilization container assembly as                   set forth in any
one of claims 24 to 36, wherein said sensor comprises a water
vapor           sensor,   a   pressure        sensor,   a   temperature        sensor,   or
combinations thereof.
38.         The sterilization container assembly as                   set forth in any
one       of      claims   24   to     37,   wherein   said   sensor      is   an  optical
sensor.
39.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
38,       wherein       said   optical       sensor   comprises     an    emitter    and  a
detector.
40.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
26, or any one of claims 27 to 39 as appended thereto, wherein
said removable             sensor module and said sensor module                   receiver
are        configured        such      that   said   removable     sensor       module   is
removable from said sensor module receiver while maintaining a
sterile state environment inside said container.
41.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
26, or any one of claims 27 to 40 as appended thereto, wherein
said sensor module receiver further comprises a lock mechanism
movable between a locked position and an unlocked position, and
wherein             when    said       sterilization       container         assembly    is
                                                194

          04/2018
Documntm2-26
sterilized              and      said   removable      sensor        module        is   removed         from
said sensor module receiver, said lock mechanism is configured
to      maintain             a     sterile    state       environment              inside       of      said
container.
42.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
26, or any one of claims 27 to 40 as appended thereto, wherein
said sensor module receiver further comprises a lock mechanism
movable between a locked position and an unlocked position, and
wherein            when      said    lock   mechanism        is    in     said      locked      position
said lock mechanism is configured to be manually actuated from
within said container to be moved into said unlocked position.
43.         The sterilization container assembly as set forth in claim
26, or any one of claims 27 to 42 as appended thereto, wherein
said removable                  sensor module further comprises a battery.
44.         The     sterilization          container        assembly as             set   forth       claim
26, or any one of claims 27 to 43 as appended thereto, wherein
said          removable           sensor    module      further         comprises          a    wireless
transceiver.
45.         A     sterilization container assembly comprising:
            a      container         for   holding       a    surgical          instrument,             said
container              formed       to   allow   sterilant            to    enter       and     residual
sterilant to exit so that the instrument in said container can
be subjected to a sterilization process;                                  and
            a removable sensor module connectable to said container,
with said removable                    sensor module comprising:
                      a       sensor     for  measuring          a     characteristic             of      the
            environment inside said sterilization container during the
             sterilization                process          and           generating               signals
            representative                 of      the          measured               environmental
            characteristic;             and
                                                   195

          04/2018
Documntm2-26
                     a battery.
46.         A method for sterilizing medical devices, comprising:
            providing a sterilization container assembly comprising a
container            and a        removable       sensor    module,   with     the     removable
sensor             module          comprising          a    sensor    for       measuring       a
characteristic of the environment inside the container during
the sterilization process and generating signals representative
of the measured environmental characteristic;
            loading a surgical instrument into the container;
            processing           the   surgical       instrument    with   a   sterilization
process cycle;
            measuring a characteristic of the environment inside the
container             with         the     removable       sensor    module        during    the
sterilization process cycle;                         and
            removing the            removable       sensor module     from the         container
after           the   sterilization             process     cycle   while     maintaining       a
sterile state inside the container.
47.         The method as            set    forth     in  claim  46,  further        comprising
programming              the       removable       sensor     module   with       a    validated
sterilization process measurement.
48.         The method as            set    forth     in  claim  47,  further        comprising
comparing data collected during the sterilization process cycle
with the validated sterilization process measurement.
49.         The method as            set    forth     in  claim  48,  further        comprising
indicating that the surgical instrument has been successfully
sterilized based on the comparison between the data collected
during            the    sterilization            process     cycle   and     the      validated
sterilization process measurement.
                                                     196

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
