                                                 Attorney Docket No.: 2203917.00120W01
                         ABSTRACT OF THE DISCLOSURE
        Sorption media for removal of contaminants from fluid streams are provided.
The sorption media comprise an active compound bound or linked to a support
substrate or matrix. Support substrates can include iron- and alumina-based
materials. A method for making sorption media for the removal of contaminants
from fluid streams is also described. The method includes selecting a support
substrate, and, optionally, providing a doping mixture comprising an active
compound. The selected support substrate can be contacted with the doping mixture
to form a doped mixture. The doped mixture can be reacted at a predetermined
temperature and atmospheric environment for a predetermined duration to form an
active media, wherein the active compound is bound or linked to the support
substrate.
                                          -41-

                              TITLE OF THE INVENTION
 MEDIA FOR REMOVAL OF CONTAMINANTS FROM FLUID STREAMS
                AND METHOD OF MAKING AND USING SAME
This is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. <removed-apn>, which is a
divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2010270695, the entire contents of
which are incorporated herein by reference.
                              RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]      This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. § 119(e) of the
following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications:
                United States Application No. 61/223,149, entitled
                "Media ForRemoval Of ContaminantsFrom Fluid
                Streams And Method Of Making And Using Same,"
                filed July 6, 2009; and
                United States Application No. 61/310,773, entitled
                "Media ForRemoval Of ContaminantsFrom Fluid
                Streams And Method Of Making And Using Same,"
                filed March 5, 2010,
            the contents of which are incorporated by reference.
[0002]      This application is related to the following U.S. Patents:
                U.S. Patent No. 7,341,667, entitled Process For
                Reduction Of Inorganic ContaminantsFrom Waste
                Streams, filed October 29, 2004, and issued March 11,
                2008;
                U.S. Patent No. 7,479,230, entitled Process For
                Reduction Of Inorganic ContaminantsFrom Waste
                Streams, filed February 1, 2008, and issued January
                20, 2009; and
                U.S. Patent No. 7,449,118, entitled Process For
                Reduction Of Inorganic ContaminantsFrom Waste
                Streams, filed February 1, 2008, and issued November
                 11,2008,
            the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.
                        BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
[0003]      The present invention generally relates to the use of chemical sorbents to
reduce the levels of contaminants in waste streams.
                                            -1-

Description of Related Art
[0004]     Industrial pollutants such as heavy metals, D-block metals, mercury and
arsenic pose significant health-related risks to the public. For example, several
                                          -1A-

metal ions and transition metal ions have been associated with asthma symptoms
such as activation of mast cells and enhanced allergen-mediated mast cell activation.
Walczak-Crzewiecka, et al. "Environmentally Relevant Metal and Transition Metal
Ions Enhance Fc RI-Mediated Mast Cell Activation," Env. Health Perspectives
111(5) (May 2003). Because these substances are generated as a by-product of
industrial processes, it is important to find effective means to reduce their release
into the environment.
[0005]       For example, mercury emissions from coal-fired utilities, commercial
boilers and solid waste incinerators represent a serious environmental problem and
have been the focus of many regulatory deliberations. At present, coal-fired power
plants emit the largest source of mercury emissions at 32.7 %. Municipal waste
incinerators and non-utility boilers each contribute approximately 18 % of mercury
emissions. Medical waste incinerators contribute 10 % of gas phase mercury
emissions. In addition to gas phase mercury contamination, mercury contaminant
exists in water phase as well such as water waste discharged by petroleum refineries
and steel mills. For example, water phase contaminants may include elemental,
ionic, organometallic, and/or inorganic mercury species.
[0006]       Mercury exposure has been associated with neurological and
developmental damage in humans. Developing fetuses and young children are at
particular risk of the harmful effects of mercury exposure. Mercury contamination
is also a concern for populations exposed to dental practices or dental waste, clinical
chemistry laboratories, pathology laboratories, research laboratories, chlor-alkali
facilities, and health care waste incinerators. However, despite the desire to reduce
mercury emissions, presently there are no commercially available technologies to
control mercury emissions.
[0007]       Similarly, exposure to arsenic poses potentially significant health risks.
Arsenic is a natural element, distributed throughout the soil and in many kinds of
rock. Because of its ubiquitous presence, arsenic is found in minerals and ores that
contain metals used for industrial processes. When these metals are mined or heated
in smelters, the arsenic is released into the environment as a fine dust. Arsenic may
also enter the environment from coal-fired power plants and incinerators because
                                            -2-

coal and waste products contain some arsenic. Once arsenic enters the environment,
it cannot be destroyed.
[0008]       Arsenic exposure causes gastrointestinal problems, such as stomach ache,
nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. Arsenic exposure can also yield decreased
production of red and white blood cells, skin changes that may result in skin cancer,
and irritated lungs. Inorganic arsenic has been linked to several types of cancer and
is classified as a Group A, human carcinogen. In high amounts (above about 60,000
ppb in food or water), arsenic may be fatal. Similar adverse effects have been
associated with other inorganic contaminants such as cadmium, chromium, lead, and
selenium.
[0009]       Various carbon-based sorbents have been identified for removing
mercury vapor from gas streams. T.R. Carey and C.F. Richardson, "Assessing
Sorbent Injection Mercury Control Effectiveness in Flue Gas Streams,"
EnvironmentalProgress 19(3):167-174 (Fall 2000). For example, Selexsorb@ HG
(Alcoa World Alumina, LLC, Pittsburgh, PA) and Mersorb@ (Nucon International,
Inc., Columbus, OH) are commercially available carbon-based mercury sorbents.
Recycled tires have also been identified as a source of activated carbon that could be
used for mercury removal. C. Lehmann et al., "Recycling Waste Tires for Air
Quality Control," Jan. 2000. Activated carbon has many drawbacks for use in large
scale industrial processes, however. In particular, commercially available activated
carbon is a relatively expensive sorbent. Although transformation of waste tires into
activated carbon is an environmentally friendly means of recycling harmful waste, it
is a complicated, lengthy, energy-intensive and time-consuming process.
Additionally, the yield of activated carbon from waste tires is relatively low.
[0010]       Currently, carbon-based sorbents can be used for removal of
contaminants from water, primarily through an adsorption effect of the carbon.
However, this method suffers from drawbacks such as washing off of the active
materials, thus making the use of carbon-based sorbent ineffective. In addition, the
used active carbon materials need to be disposed of as a hazardous material,
therefore adding cost and contributing to further environmental problems.
                                          -3-

[0011]      Other currently used methods include the use of catalysts to remove
mercury from hydrocarbon gases. Similarly, such methods are not effective in
aqueous streams due to washing off of the active catalysts.
[0012]      Thus, there is a need for new technologies to efficiently and cost
effectively reduce the level of inorganic contaminants, such as mercury and arsenic
for example, in industrial emissions and specifically in aqueous streams.
                        BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0013]      A sorption media for removal or reduction of contaminants from a fluid
stream is described, comprising an active compound linked to or bound to a support
substrate or matrix. A method of making a sorption media is also described.
[0014]      In one aspect of the invention, a sorption media includes a support
substrate and a sulfur species chemically bonded to the support substrate. The
support substrate comprises a porous metallic material. The media includes at least
10 mol % aluminum species. Optionally, the sulfur species is chemically bonded to
the support substrate by at least one of an ionic bond and a covalent bond.
[0015]      In another aspect of the invention, the sorption media has a contaminant
capacity of at least one of at least 1000 mg-mercury/kg-media, at least 2000 mg
mercury/kg-media, at least 3000 mg-mercury/kg-media, and at least 10,000 mg
mercury/kg-media.
[0016]      In a further aspect of the invention, sorption media includes a support
substrate and a sulfur species chemically bonded to the support substrate. The
support substrate comprises a porous metallic material. The media includes at least
9 mol % iron species. Optionally, the sulfur species is chemically bonded to the
support substrate by at least one of an ionic bond and a covalent bond.
[0017]      In yet another aspect of the invention, the sorption media has a
contaminant capacity of at least one of at least 400 mg-mercury/kg-media, at least
1000 mg-mercury/kg-media, at least 3500 mg-mercury/kg-media, and at least
12,000 mg-mercury/kg-media.
[0018]      In still a further aspect of the invention, a method of manufacturing a
sorption media includes selecting a support substrate comprising a porous metallic
material, providing a doping mixture comprising a first sulfur species dissolved in a
solvent, and contacting the selected support substrate with the doping mixture at a
                                              -4-

first temperature for a first duration to form a doped substrate. The method also
includes reacting the doped substrate at a second temperature in a selected
atmospheric environment for a second duration to form the sorption media. The
sorption media comprises a second sulfur species chemically bonded to the support
substrate. Optionally, the second sulfur species is chemically bonded to the support
substrate by at least one of an ionic bond and a covalent bond.
[0019]      In one aspect of the invention, a method of manufacturing a sorption
media includes selecting a support substrate comprising a porous metallic material,
selecting an atmospheric environment comprising at least hydrogen sulfide, and
reacting the support substrate at a first temperature in the selected atmospheric
environment for a first duration to form the sorption media. The selected sorption
media comprises a sulfur species chemically bonded to the support substrate.
Optionally, the second sulfur species is chemically bonded to the support substrate
by at least one of an ionic bond and a covalent bond.
[0020]      In a further aspect of the invention, the method also includes mixing
elemental sulfur with the selected substrate before reacting the support substrate in
the selected atmospheric environment.
[0021]      In another aspect of the invention, a method of reducing a level of
metallic species contamination of a fluid includes contacting the fluid including the
metallic species contamination with a sorption media. The sorption media including
a sulfur species chemically bonded to a support substrate. Optionally, the sulfur
species is chemically bonded to the support substrate by at least one of an ionic bond
and a covalent bond.
[0022]      In still a further aspect of the invention, the metallic species
contamination comprises at least one ionic mercury species. The method also
includes selecting the sorption media for contacting the fluid from a plurality of
sorption medias based on the sulfur species of the selected sorption media including
a sulfide species.
[0023]      In yet another aspect of the invention, the metallic species contamination
comprises at least one inorganic mercury species. The method also includes
selecting the sorption media for contacting the fluid from a plurality of sorption
                                              -5-

medias based on the sulfur species of the selected sorption media including a sulfate
species.
[0024]       In another aspect of the invention, the metallic species contamination
comprises at least one inorganic mercury species and at least one ionic mercury
species, the method further comprising selecting the sorption media for contacting
the fluid from a plurality of sorption medias based on the sulfur species of the
selected sorption media including a sulfate species and a sulfide species.
[0025]       The method of claim 60, wherein the metallic species contamination
comprises at least one inorganic mercury species and at least one ionic mercury
species. The method also includes selecting at least a first and a second sorption
media for contacting the fluid from a plurality of sorption medias based on the sulfur
species of the first selected sorption media including a sulfate species and the sulfur
species on the second selected media including a sulfide species.
[0026]       As used herein, the terms "support substrate" and "matrix" are used
interchangeably. As used herein, the terms "media", "active media", and "sorption
media" are used interchangeably.
[0027]       As used herein, the term "sorption" includes adsorption, chemical
adsorption (i.e., chemisorption), absorption, and/or physical adsorption (i.e.,
physisorption).
[0028]       When used in connection with a media and/or support substrate, the term
"unused" refers to a material that is in its virgin or unspent form. In contrast, when
used in connection with a media and/or support substrate, the term "used" or "spent"
refers to a material that has been employed in one or more processes for which the
material was intended. For example, a used (or spent) Claus catalyst is a catalyst
that has been employed in a Claus process for recovering sulfur from hydrogen
sulfide.
[0029]       As used herein, the term "stream" describes a quantity of fluid having a
contaminant species. A fluid stream may include a flowing fluid, but can also
describe a static quantity of fluid. Thus, the sorbents described herein can be
disposed in a moving quantity of fluid to effect continuous contaminant removal.
Likewise, the sorbents can also be added to a fixed quantity of fluid to effect
contaminant removal in a batch fashion.
                                            -6-

                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0030]     For a more complete understanding of various embodiments of the
present invention, reference is now made to the following descriptions taken in
connection with the accompanying drawings in which:
[0031]     Figure 1 shows a method of making an embodiment of a sorption media;
[0032]     Figure 2 shows an illustrative process for preparation of a pre-coat filter;
[0033]     Figure 3 shows an illustrative process for use of a pre-coat filter having
an active media entrained;
[0034]     Figure 4 shows an illustrative process for use of an active media to
reduce contamination levels in a fluid;
[0035]     Figures 5A and 5B show another illustrative process for the use of an
active media to reduce contamination levels in a fluid;
[0036]     Figure 6 shows a complete ESCA scan of a fresh Maxcel 740 catalyst
(untreated and unused);
[0037]     Figure 7 shows an ESCA scan of a fresh Maxcel 740-based sorption
media after it has been doped and reacted (treated and unused);
[0038]     Figure 8 shows an ESCA scan of a fresh Maxcel 740-based sorption
media after it has been doped, reacted (treated and unused), and washed with water;
[0039]     Figure 9 shows an ESCA scan, in the aluminum region, of a fresh
Maxcel 740 catalyst (untreated and unused);
[0040]     Figure 10 shows an ESCA scan, in the aluminum region, of a fresh
Maxcel 740-based sorption media after it has been doped and reacted (treated and
unused);
[0041]     Figure 11 shows an ESCA scan of a spent alumina catalyst that was used
during the manufacture of hydrogen peroxide (untreated and used);
[0042]     Figure 12 shows an ESCA scan of a sorption media that is based on a
doped spent alumina catalyst from the manufacture of hydrogen peroxide (treated
and used);
[0043]     Figure 13 shows an ESCA scan of a sorption media that is based on a
doped spent alumina catalyst from the manufacture of hydrogen peroxide (treated
and used), after being washed with water;
                                          -7-

[0044]      Figure 14 shows an ESCA scan of a fresh Maxcel 740-based sorption
media after it has been doped and reacted (treated and unused);
[0045]      Figure 15 shows an ESCA scan of a fresh SULFATREAT XLP-based
sorption media (untreated and unused);
[0046]      Figure 16 shows an ESCA scan of a fresh SULFATREAT XLP-based
sorption media after it has been reacted (treated and unused);
[0047]      Figure 17 shows an ESCA scan of a fresh SULFATREAT XLP-based
sorption media after it has been reacted (treated and unused), after being washed
with water;
[0048]      Figure 18 shows an ESCA scan of a spent SULFATREAT XLP-based
material (used and untreated);
[0049]      Figure 19 shows an ESCA scan of a spent SULFATREAT XLP-based
sorption media (used and treated); and
[0050]      Figure 20 shows an ESCA scan of a fresh Maxcel 740-based sorption
media after it has been mixed with sulfur and reacted (unused and treated).
                             DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0051]      A sorption media for the reduction of one or more contaminants from a
fluid stream is described, as well as methods of making the sorption media and using
the same.
[0052]      In one aspect, a sorption media for reducing contaminant levels in a fluid
stream is described. The sorption media includes a support substrate or matrix
bound to or linked with an active compound. Non-limiting examples of support
substrates or matrixes include iron-, alumina-, silicon-, titanium-, and carbon-based
substrates. In some embodiments, the alumina-based matrix includes Claus catalyst.
In some specific embodiments, the Claus catalyst is virgin Claus catalyst. In other
specific embodiments, the Claus catalyst is spent Claus catalyst. In other
embodiments, the alumina-based matrix includes other non-Claus catalyst. In other
embodiments, the media includes an iron-based matrix.
[0053]      Non-limiting examples of the active compounds include sulfur,
aluminum-sulfur compounds, iron-sulfur compounds, ammonium sulfate, ferric
chloride, copper sulfate, copper chloride, and/or other various metal salts. Iron
sulfur compounds include, but are not limited to, ferric sulfate, ferric sulfite and
                                           -8-

ferrous sulfide. Non-limiting examples of contaminants include arsenic, mercury,
and D-block metals and/or heavy metals, including, but not limited to, barium,
strontium, selenium, uranium, lead, titanium, zinc and/or chromium. The reduction
of other metal contamination levels is contemplated. In some embodiments, the
media reduces contaminant levels from the fluid stream by one or more of
adsorption, chemical adsorption (i.e., chemisorption), absorption, and/or physical
adsorption.
[0054]      In some embodiments, the fluid stream includes an aqueous fluid. In
some specific embodiments, the aqueous fluid includes one or more of ground
water, process waste water from a chemical process, and others. Other non-aqueous
fluid streams are also contemplated. Likewise, the various media described herein
can be used to reduce contaminated in non-liquid fluid streams.
[0055]      In some embodiments, the media enable the reduction of arsenic and
mercury levels in aqueous liquid streams. Other embodiments of the media enable
the reduction of D-block metals and/or heavy metal levels, including, but not limited
to, strontium, uranium, lead, and/or chromium.
[0056]      Without being limited to any particular theory, it is believed that in the
sorption media described herein, the active compound is bound or linked to the
support substrate or matrix so that the loss of the active compound into the fluid
stream is reduced or minimized. For example, it is thought that, in some
implementations, the active compound chemically interacts with the support
substrate in such a way as to become at least partially integrated with the support
substrate. In other words, the support substrate and active compound form a
chemical compound that holds the active compound in place. Thus, the support
substrate and active compound may form a chemical bond (e.g., a covalent bond
and/or an ionic bond). In other implementations, it is believed that other attraction
forces reduce the mobility of the active compound. For example, the active
compound and support substrate may exhibit one or more of dipole-dipole
interactions, hydrogen bonding, and/or dispersion forces.
[0057]      Further still, it is also believed that mechanical forces can play a role in
reducing the mobility of the active compound and/or molecules and/or complexes
formed by interactions between the active compound and support substrate. For
                                              -9-

example, the active compound and/or the complexes formed can be lodged into
small pores in the surface of the support substrate, thereby confining the material
within the pores. Similarly, the techniques described herein are believed to create
active surfaces within the pore structure of the support substrate.
[0058]       Due to the formation of such a bond or linkage, the active compound
cannot be completely solvated by the fluid molecule and, thus, the dissolution rate of
the active compound is significantly reduced. Moreover, the bond or linkage also
resists physical forces of fluids in contact with the media that would otherwise wash
the active compound from the surface of the media. Thus, as used herein, the
dissolution rate of the active compound describes the rate of loss of the active
compound from the media due to both chemical and physical phenomena. In some
embodiments, the active compound for sorption of mercury is believed to be ferric
sulfate, ferric sulfide, aluminum sulfate, and/or aluminum sulfide. Meanwhile, it is
thought polarized iron (e.g., iron in a salt complex) is effective for sorption of
arsenic. While ferric sulfate and ferric sulfide dissolve in water under standard
conditions, it is believed that, by using the method described herein, ferric sulfate or
ferric sulfide can be bound or linked to the support substrate or matrix comprising,
e.g., alumina and/or iron. This bond allows the linked iron-sulfur and/or aluminum
sulfur compounds to be exposed to an aqueous liquid stream while dissolving into
the liquid stream at a reduced rate compared with free iron-sulfur and/or aluminum
sulfur compounds in liquid not bound to any support substrate. This enables the
active compound, e.g., iron-sulfur and/or aluminum-sulfur compounds, to act upon
contaminants in an aqueous stream without significant loss of the sulfate and/or
sulfide species into the stream itself. In general, the embodiments described herein
enable an otherwise soluble compound to be attached to the surface or interior of the
support substrate or matrix in a way that maintains the active characteristics of the
active compound while reducing the amount of the active compound washed away
during use.
[0059]       The scope of the invention is not limited to the use of ferric sulfate, but
includes other compounds, for example, ferric chloride, ammonium sulfate, copper
sulfate, copper chloride, elemental sulfur, hydrogen sulfide, and others. In some
implementations, the active compound forms the bond and/or link with the support
                                            -10-

substrate and, also, provides the sorbing activity of the media. In other
implementations, the active compound forms a bond and/or link with the support
substrate, and an additional reaction step is performed to chemically change a
portion of the active compound to provide sorbing activity (e.g., copper chloride is
bonded to a support substrate and later reacted with hydrogen sulfide to form a
copper-sulfur species bonded to the substrate).
[0060]        In some embodiments, iron-based substrates found in used or unused
commercial materials for treating natural gas to remove sulfur compounds, e.g.,
SULFATREAT XLP, Iron Sponge, and other similar materials, is used as the
support substrate for the media as described herein. Some of these materials include
iron oxides, e.g., ferric oxide and triferric oxide.
[0061]        In another aspect, a method for making a sorption media for the reduction
of contaminant levels from fluid streams is also described. The method includes
selecting a support substrate or matrix, optionally, providing a doping mixture
comprising an active compound, and, optionally, contacting the selected support
substrate or matrix with the doping mixture to form a doped matrix mixture, and
reacting the doped matrix mixture at a predetermined temperature and
predetermined atmospheric environment for a predetermined duration to form an
active media, wherein the active compound is bound or linked to the support
substrate. Figure 1 shows an overview of a method 100 of making of a sorption
media in some embodiments. A support substrate, e.g., a virgin, spent, or recycled
substrate, is selected as the base for the media (step 110). In some embodiments, the
substrate is a used catalyst from a natural gas or other sweetening process.
Examples include, but are not limited to, iron doped, virgin, or recycled Claus
catalysts, as well as aerogels, titanium dioxide, iron-based natural gas treatment
catalysts (e.g., SULFATREAT and others), and alumina-based catalysts. In
addition, an active compound is selected and optionally dissolved in an appropriate
solvent to form a doping mixture (step 120). Solvents can include aqueous solvents
and/or organic solvents.
[0062]        In some embodiments, the substrate may also be reduced in size prior to
the drying, doping, and reacting steps using, e.g., roller, ball, or impingement mill
equipment. Next, the selected substrate base and doping mixture are contacted and
                                            -11
USIDOCS 7593985vl

held in a temperature and humidity controlled environment for a selected duration to
form a doped substrate (step 130). In some embodiments, the temperature is held
between 30-90 'C, the relative humidity varies between 0-40 %, and the duration
varies between 10-45 minutes. A sufficient amount of doping mixture is put in
contact with the substrate base so that no compound of the doping mixture is a
limiting reagent in any reaction between the doping mixture and substrate. The
material (the doped substrate) is then processed by an intermediate step, during
which it can be dried and/or surface treated, for example, by washing in water,
acetone, or other solvent and/or further heating or cooling (step 140). For example,
the doped substrate can be heated to a temperature between 100-300 'C for 1-4
hours. The material may also be cooled as part of this step 140.
[0063]      In some embodiments, after drying and/or heating the substrate, a doping
agent (if one is present) and the substrate are reacted under controlled temperature
and atmospheric conditions, which may include various gases, as set forth below, for
a selected duration to form an activated media. The specific examples set forth
herein are illustrative only, as differences is doping agents, reactant gases, reaction
duration, etc. will achieve different effects on the various support substrates. These
effects can be controlled, by manipulating the overall process, to achieve different
levels of activity of the media that are effective in sorbing particular contaminants
(step 150). Non-limiting examples of doping agents include various gases and
transitional metals. If the substrate has been doped, then it may require an additional
drying step. In some embodiments, the media is then put in a chamber (if the
chamber has not been used already for doping and conditioning of the base) and
exposed to various gasses. The gases include, but are not limited to, H 2 , Nitrogen,
and H 2S gases. In some embodiments, the temperature is controlled to between 100
500 'C and the atmosphere comprises any one or a mixture of hydrogen sulfide
(e.g., 2-15 vol %), hydrogen (e.g., 2-15 vol %), air (e.g., 5-100 vol %), water, and/or
nitrogen (e.g., 10-100 vol %). The duration varies between 1-6 hours. A sufficient
amount of the gas mixture is supplied to the substrate (and doping agent, if present)
during the reaction so that none of the components of the gas mixture are a limiting
reagent in any reaction that takes place during the reaction step. In some
embodiments, the media is further optionally doped with various transition metals
                                            -12-

such as, but not limited to zinc, strontium and copper to reduce or eliminate
inorganic contaminants, including, but not limited to heavy metals such as mercury
and arsenic from waste streams.
[0064]      In some other embodiments, the doping agent is not added and the
reaction conditions are selected to form the active ingredients on the surface of the
substrate. In those embodiments, the active agent is created chemically on the
surface of the substrate by, e.g., exposure to a mixture of gases in a reactive
environment.
[0065]      The material is then allowed to cool and is processed to achieve a
desired particle size (step 160). In some embodiments, the active media can be
crushed to a certain particle size using, e.g., roller, ball, or impingement mill
equipment. In some embodiments, the active media is crushed or milled to a
particle size in the range of 12-325 mesh. The active media may also be combined
with other materials (step 170) to form a sorption media blend. Other materials
suitable for blend with the active media include, but are not limited to, another
active media with the same or different support substrate or active compound. In
some embodiments, the active material described herein can be used as a mixture
with other sorbing material such as those described in U.S. Patent No. 7,341,667,
entitled Process ForReduction Of InorganicContaminantsFrom Waste Streams,
filed October 29, 2004, and issued March 11, 2008; in U.S. Patent No. 7,479,230,
entitled Process ForReduction Of Inorganic ContaminantsFrom Waste Streams,
filed February 1, 2008, and issued January 20, 2009; and in U.S. Patent No.
7,449,118, entitled Process ForReduction Of Inorganic ContaminantsFrom Waste
Streams, filed February 1, 2008, and issued November 11, 2008.
[0066]      The steps 120-160 set forth in method 100 can be performed in a variety
of sequences, and some steps may be omitted or repeated. For example, creation of
a doping mixture and contacting the selected substrate with the mixture (steps 120
and 130) may be omitted. Instead, the selected substrate can be treated with
reactant gases alone to form an active media (step 150). In contrast, multiple
doping contact steps (using the same doping agent or a different doping agent) can
be performed. The active material can also be processed to achieve a desired
particle size before and/or after any doping and/or reactant steps (step 160).
                                           -13-

[0067]       Moreover, by controlling the conditions of manufacture, as disclosed
herein, it is possible to adjust the rate at which the active compound is lost from the
media. For example, rate of loss of ferric sulfate, in terms of iron, ranges from over
300,000 pg-Fe/L of wash water to under 200 pg-Fe/L of wash water. The retention
of the active compound can also be observed by visual confirmation of color bodies
and a brown/orange color, or lack thereof, in the wash water.
[0068]       It is believed method 100 enables many different active compounds,
including flocculating materials, to be linked to or bound with a stable support
substrate or matrix to form an active media. The use of the active media
manufactured using methods disclosed herein simplifies waste streams processing
and enables easier management of waste products by sorbing contaminants onto the
matrix. The active compounds disclosed herein can be used to manufacture the
active media according to the method disclosed herein. In addition to various active
compounds, different matrices or support substrates disclosed herein may be used as
a base for the manufacture of the active media, using the method disclosed herein.
For example, it is believed that aluminum, titanium, and/or silicone matrices can be
used in place of the alumina and iron disclosed herein. The selection of active
compounds, in combination with an appropriate base, enables a sorption media to be
tailored to sorb a target contaminant or group of contaminants, e.g., strontium,
uranium, lead, and/or hexavalent chromium.
[0069]       In yet another aspect, the method of using the active media to reduce
contaminant levels in fluid stream is described. The method comprises providing an
active media as described herein and contacting the active media with a fluid stream
containing a contaminant. The contaminant can include any one or more of the
contaminants as described herein.
[0070]       In some embodiments, the active media disclosed herein may be used in
combination with other media to create tailored treatments for specific water
problems. In some specific embodiments, an iron-based active media can be mixed
with an alumina-based active media to form a mixture of active media. The mixture
of active media can be used to reduce more than one type of contaminant level
effectively, depending on the specificities of different active media for certain
contaminants. For instance, it is surprisingly discovered that an iron-based active
                                             -14-

media mixed with an alumina-based active media can effectively reduce mercury
and arsenic levels in an aqueous stream.
[0071]      The media may also be used directly in fluid streams and removed by
filtration. The media may also be mixed with clays to form slurry walls or liners to
support remediation and to sorb trace metals that can normally leach from areas of
contamination. In general, e.g., any one or more of the active medias described
herein can be incorporated into products produced by AquaBlok, Ltd. of Toledo,
OH.
[0072]      For example, media #4, described below, was incorporated into an
AquaBlok material at a level of 5 wt % media. A ball jar test was performed using
370 ml of 1000 ppb mercury contaminated water to which 527g of the AquaBlok /
media mixture had been added. After allowing the jar to sit for approximately 48
hours, supernatant liquid was drawn off of the top of the jar and filtered through a
1.2 pm filter and analyzed for mercury concentration. The filtered water sample
contained about 22 ppb mercury. After allowing the jar to sit a total of about 120
hours, supernatant liquid was again drawn off, filtered, and analyzed. The filtered
water sample contained less than 5 ppb mercury.
[0073]      In some embodiments, the active media as described herein can be used
to form a continuously regenerating treatment system. As described above, the
incorporation of the active compound, e.g., ferric sulfate, into the media base, e.g.,
an alumina or iron matrix, reduces the amount of active component dissolved in use.
This permits contaminants, heavy metals, color agents, and other undesirable
materials in a fluid stream to accumulate on or adhere to the surface of the media
and/or very small external features of the media to be removed. Thus, after use, a
spent media is created that can be removed from a fluid treatment system and
disposed of. For example, when the ferric sulfate / alumina media is used to treat an
aqueous stream containing heavy metal contamination, the spent media is non
hazardous (per Toxicity Characteristic Leaching Procedure test). A typical
concentration of heavy metal on the media is from 20 to over 10,000 mg/g-media.
Metal levels reduced can include arsenic and mercury and, it is thought, a wide
range of metals including lead, uranium, selenium, chromium, and other transition
metals. Moreover, the use of the media is believed to be effective on a wide range
                                         -15-

of ionic and complex metal forms, including the reduction of metal levels from
ground water.
[0074]      In addition to treating a wide range of contaminants, the media as
described herein shows an increase in the speed with which contaminants can be
reduced in a fluid stream as compared to alternatives. In one illustrative
embodiment, in the application of treating contaminated ground water with 3000 ppt
mercury and 25 ppb arsenic, activated carbon required 90 minutes of contact time to
reduce the mercury to less than 20 ppt. In comparison, a SULFATREAT XLP
based media, as described herein, needs less than 60 seconds to reduce the similar
amount of the mercury contaminant. This increased speed of action over known
treatment materials permits the use of the media disclosed herein in a wide range of
applications not typically permitted in water service due to the amount of time
needed for water to be in contact with conventional materials. Using the media,
techniques, and methods disclosed herein, canisters and pre-coat filters can be used
to take advantage of the media's brief effective contact time. This further enables
the use of the media in continuous flow fluid bed applications and in fouling
services, including, but not limited to, ground water treatment services. The ability
to be used in fouling services allows for relatively high levels of contamination to be
treated directly, without the need to dilute the contaminated stream prior to
contamination reduction. Furthermore, the speed and high capacity allow the iron
matrix media to be used to prevent migration of metals through clay liners in
remediation services. Additionally, the media described herein can be used as an
active ingredient in activated sludge water treatment systems.
[0075]      Moreover, the contaminant-sorption capacity of the media is greater than
that of other materials used to treat contaminated fluids. For example, activated
carbon was only effective at removing contaminants from four bed volumes of
contaminated ground water (1 gallon of water being treated by 1 gallon of activated
carbon), whereas the SULFATREAT XLP-based media described herein remained
effective for over 1000 bed volumes, and, in some implementations, remained
effective for about 5000 bed volumes. In other illustrative embodiments of the
media described herein, the media remained effective for over 18,000 bed volumes
and, in some implementations, over 27,000 bed volumes.
                                           -16-

[0076]       In addition to the benefits set forth above, the media, techniques, and
methods disclosed herein include other advantages, as follows. A wide range of
spent activated alumina, used iron sponge or other spent material is currently
disposed of in landfills, which has a detrimental environmental impact. As
described herein, such material can be used as a support substrate or matrix for the
various types of active media disclosed herein. In some embodiments, spent
alumina and used iron sponge material can be diverted from landfills to produce
additional active media, thereby reducing the environmental impact that the spent
alumina would have otherwise had.
[0077]       The active media as described herein has a higher level of activity as
compared to activated carbon. Thus, less media and smaller equipment can be used
to treat certain fluid streams as compared to activated carbon-based systems. For
example, a treatment system using the ferric sulfate / alumina media described
herein requires about one-tenth the size of footprint required for an activated carbon
based system for treating groundwater with 2.5 ppb mercury contamination to a
level of less than 20 ppt. Moreover, the higher activity of the media as compared to
activated carbon permits the use of about one-tenth the amount of media in a
treatment system. For example, in the ground water example immediately above,
the media has an active life of about 1000 bed volumes, as compared to about four
bed volumes for activated carbon.
[0078]       Further, it is believed that embodiments of the disclosure permit the
active compound to retain desirable characteristics, e.g., electrochemical and/or
properties, while keeping the compound bound to the matrix. Thus, the active
compound can act as a flocculation agent for contaminants, in that it can bind the
contaminants, without requiring the additional steps of settling and filtering that
typical flocculation agents require.
[0079]       Figure 2 shows an illustrative process 200 for preparation of a pre-coat
filter using any of the medias described herein as well as the treatment materials
described in the patents incorporated above. A vessel 210 is filled with a slurry
mixture of 300 grams of active media of size 325 mesh in one gallon of water. A
pump 220 circulates the slurry mixture from vessel 210 through a pre-coat filter of
30 microns or less at a rate of about 1 gallon per minute. The circulation continues
                                            -17-

until the slurry mixture is approximately clear, indicating that a quantity of the
active media has been entrained into the pre-coat filter. The filter may then be used
to reduce contaminant levels as set forth herein. Optionally, after the reduction of
the contaminant levels, the spent media can be removed and/or replaced by a fresh
active media.
[0080]       Figure 3 shows an illustrative process 300 for use of a pre-coat filter
having an active media in a bed (e.g., any of the media set forth in the examples
below). A contaminated stream 310 includes 2.5 ppb mercury and 25 ppb arsenic in
water. Contaminated stream 310 is passed through a pretreatment filter 320 of 10
micron or less to remove particulate contaminants at a rate of 333 ml/min. The
stream is then passed though pre-coat filter 330, prepared in accordance with process
200. Pre-coat filter 330 is expected to reduce the levels of mercury and arsenic in
the water, as set forth above. An effluent stream 340 is expected to contain less than
20 ppt mercury and no detectable arsenic. It is understood that the contamination
levels, contamination reduction amounts, and flow rates are illustrative only, and
greater or lesser values are contemplated.
[0081]       Figure 4 shows an illustrative process 400 for use of media #1, described
below, to reduce contamination levels in a fluid. A vessel 410 contains
contaminated water including 3000 ppt mercury and 25 ppb arsenic. A pump 420
passes the contaminated water from vessel 410 through a column 430 containing
media #1. In one implementation, column 430 is about 25.08 centimeters long,
having an inner diameter of about 0.5 centimeters, and contains about 4 grams of
active media filling a section of the column about 4 centimeters in length. During
continuous operation for at least 7 days at a flow rate of about 4 ml/minute, an
effluent stream 440 contains less than 20 ppt mercury and no detectable arsenic. It
is understood that the particular media used, contamination levels, contamination
reduction amounts, and flow rates are illustrative only, and greater or lesser values
are within the scope of the invention.
[0082]       Figures 5A and 5B show a side view and a top view, respectively, of an
illustrative apparatus 500 for use of any of the media described herein to reduce
contamination levels in a fluid. A vessel 505 is continuously fed a contaminated
fluid from inlet 510 to maintain a level of contaminated fluid in vessel 505. A drum
                                           -18-

515 is partially submerged in the fluid in vessel 505 and rotates about a central axis.
Drum 515 has a porous surface that has been coated with one or more selected
media. Drum 515 also has an outlet 520, which is in fluid communication with the
interior of the drum, and may include additional structures inside the drum, to allow
fluid inside drum 515 to exit the drum. Vessel 505 also has a media inlet 525 for
feeding a slurry of media in a fluid into vessel 505. In one illustrative
implementation, the media can be added to the contaminated fluid upstream of
apparatus 500 so that the media enters vessel 505 via inlet 510 along with the
contaminated fluid. Apparatus 500 also includes a scrapper plate 530 in contact
with drum 515.
[0083]       As drum 515 rotates, a vacuum is drawn on outlet 520. The vacuum
brings contaminated fluid through the porous surface of drum 515, on which is
disposed the active media. Meanwhile, media that has contacted the contaminated
fluid, used media 535, is removed from the surface of drum 515 by scrapper plate
530. Additional fresh active media, which was added by media inlet 525, is added
to the surface of drum 515 when the bare drum surface resubmerges in the
contaminated fluid in vessel 505. In this way, a continuous flow of contaminated
fluid is treated with a continuously renewing supply of active media. The used
media 535 can be removed for disposal.
[0084]       In one or more embodiments, the methods and treatments as described
herein increase the sulfate, sulfite, and sulfide content of the media. One analytical
technique for measuring the elemental composition of a material is an ESCA
(Electron Spectroscopy for Chemical Analysis) scan. An ESCA scan is an analytical
technique used to look at the surface of materials. An ESCA scan is sensitive to the
chemical state of the material being analyzed. For example, an ESCA scan can
reveal the presence and relative proportions of sulfate, sulfide and sulfite in a
material. Changes in horizontal position on the scan indicate a chemical shift,
described in greater detail below. Changes in height indicate relative changes in
amount of a particular substance in the material being analyzed. Chemical
composition information provided herein is given in mol %.
[0085]       In some implementations of the invention, the sulfate and sulfide
contents of various support substrates increase in the following order: (unused and
                                           -19-

untreated material) < (unused and treated material) < (used and untreated material) <
(used and treated material). In some embodiments, a used catalyst is treated with
one or more H 2S, H 2 , N 2, and/or air, which results in a significant increase in the
sulfate and/or sulfide content. As used herein, the term "treated" refers to a catalyst
(or other support substrate or matrix) that has been processed according to any of the
illustrative embodiments of method 100 of making a sorption media.
[0086]       Without being limited by any particular theory, it is believed that sulfur
compounds act as the active species in reducing metal contaminant levels in fluid
streams and the sulfate and sulfide or other sulfur containing compounds contained
within the various medias correlate with the sorbing capacity of the media. The
sorbing capacity increases with the increase of the contents of sulfate, sulfide, or
other sulfur containing compounds. In one or more embodiments, the sulfide
content contributes to a greater extent to the sorbing capacity of the media than the
sulfate content. The content of sulfate and sulfide or other sulfur-containing
compounds can be determined by measuring the molar percentage of sulfur in the
sorption media. The molar percentage of sulfur can be calculated by the following
formula:
 Sulfur mol % = moles of sulfur atom in the media/total moles of all the atoms in the
                                    media (FormulaI).
In some embodiments, the sulfur content is more than about 5.0 mol %. In some
embodiments, the sulfur content is more than about 7.0 mol %. In some
embodiments, the sulfur content is more than about 9.0 mol %.
[0087]       The capacity of the sorption media can be measured by the amount of
metal in the fluid stream absorbed by the media. In some embodiments, the capacity
of the sorption media is measured by the weight of mercury (mg) in the aqueous
stream absorbed by the media (in kilograms). The capacity of the sorption media
can also be measured by the amount of inorganic mercury absorbed by the sorption
media. Further still, the capacity of the sorption media can be measured by the
amount of ionic mercury absorbed by the sorption media.
                                            -20-

[0088]       Depending on the species of mercury in the fluid stream (e.g., inorganic
or ionic), a sorption media comprising different active compounds can be utilized to
effect efficient level reduction of the multiple mercury species. In some
embodiments, the fluid stream contains inorganic mercury and a sorption media
including a sulfide species is used for reducing mercury levels. In other
embodiments, the fluid stream contains ionic mercury and sorption media
comprising sulfate is used for reducing the mercury levels.
[0089]       Thus, another aspect of the invention includes identifying the type of
contaminant species present in a fluid that is to be treated and selecting the active
compound to be bonded or linked to a media that is best suited for reducing the level
of the identified contaminant. For example, if it is determined that a fluid to be
treated contains an ionic mercury contaminant, then a media including iron sulfate,
aluminum sulfate, and/or copper sulfate (e.g., media #1 described below) is selected
as best suited for removing said contaminant. In contrast, if the fluid contains both
ionic and inorganic mercury contaminants, then a media including both sulfate and
sulfide species (e.g., media #3 described below) is selected as best suited for
removing said contaminants. Further still, a combination of media can be selected
for use in treating a contaminated stream that has both ionic and inorganic mercury
contamination wherein at least one media of the combination includes a sulfate
species and at least one other media of the combination includes a sulfide species
(e.g., media #1 and media #6 described below).
[0090]       The following media and specific parameters for its manufacture are
provided as illustrative examples of the media that can be prepared and used by the
techniques disclosed herein. It is understood that these examples are illustrative
only, and other media and specific parameters for their manufacture are within the
scope of the invention. For example, various temperatures, pressures, durations,
component concentrations, materials, and material quantities are specified. It is
understood that these parameters are illustrative and may be varied to achieve the
desired media compositions.
[0091]       Moreover, the specific parameters set forth in Tables 1-3 below describe
processes for making the illustrative media in relatively small quantities. While it is
thought these processes can be directly scaled to produce relatively large quantities
                                           -21-

of the desired media, other techniques for making relatively large quantities may use
parameters that differ from those set forth in the Tables. Examples of the variability
of such parameters are provided in the descriptions that follow.
[0092]       In the examples below, a contaminant capacity of the media is provided.
In order to determine the contaminant capacity, two methods were used. In the first
method, called the "spin test" herein, 0.5 grams of the particular media was mixed
with 0.25 liters of a standard solution (e.g., water containing a known initial
concentration of a contaminant species). The media and standard solution was
stirred for about five minutes at approximately 500-800 RPM using a magnetic stir
plate. The media / solution mixture was then filtered through a 1.0-1.2 pm filter /
vacuum apparatus (e.g., 47 mm, 1.2 pm Versapor Membrane Disc Filter with
vacuum filtration). A contaminant analysis was then performed on the collected
filtrate, and the media capacity determined by multiplying the difference between
the initial contaminant concentration and final contaminant concentration by the
volume of standard solution and then dividing by the weight of media used.
[0093]       In the second contaminant capacity testing method, called the "column
test" herein, a glass column that is approximately 1 cm inner diameter and 46 cm
high is used. The column is filled with enough media to form a packed section of
about 8-9 cm in height. Approximately 1 liter of a standard solution was pumped
through the column at about 4 ml/min. The solution that passed through the column
was collected, and the contaminant concentration therein was determined. The
media capacity is determined by multiplying the difference between the initial
contaminant concentration and final contaminant concentration by the volume of
standard solution and then dividing by the weight of media used to form the packed
section. Other column configurations, media quantities, and flow rates were also
used to determine media contaminant capacity in which the contact time between the
standard solution and media was approximately 2 minutes. In some tests, the flow
of standard solution was halted before the media's ultimate capacity was achieved.
In such cases, the capacity is reported as being at least that capacity achieved at the
moment the test was halted.
[0094]       All capacity testing data disclosed herein describes a media capacity for
an ionic mercury species.
                                            -22-

Illustrative example media #1
[0095]       An active media, media #1, was prepared according to the method
described in Table 1. The representative steps of method 100 are also listed in Table
1.
Table 1 - Illustrative parameters for manufacture of media #1
Media base (step 110)           Maxcel 740 virgin alumina Claus catalyst; target
                                Net LOI at 1000 'C < 7 %; macro porosity at 750 A
                                of greater than 0.1 cc/g
Media sizing (step 160)         Media was ground to sizing of 12x40 mesh prior to
                                further processing
Active compound and              10 grams ferric sulfate (purity of 99.9 %) was
solvent (step 120)              dissolved in 100 ml distilled water at 70 'C
Media preparation for doping    Media substrate was dried at 100-200 'C for 60-120
(step 140)                      minutes; media was cooled to ambient temperature
                                in air
Contact temperature,            The dopant mixture was contacted with the dried
humidity, and contact time      substrate at 40 'C for 10-20 minutes until the dopant
(step 130)                      was absorbed (e.g., the media appeared wet)
Wash liquid, drying time, and   No wash step; doped substrate was dried for 2 hours
drying temperature (step 140)   at 200-400 'C
Second doping (step 130)        The dried media was re-doped with 10 grams ferric
                                sulfate (purity of 99.9 %) dissolved in 100 ml
                                distilled water at 70 'C
Wash liquid, drying time, and   No wash step; doped substrate was dried for 2 hours
drying temperature (step 140)   at 100-200 'C
Reaction temperature,           Media heated to 200 'C in the presence of 90 vol %
atmospheric composition,        N 2 and 10 vol % H2 at a range of pressures up to 10
and reaction duration (step     psig
150)
Cooling (step 150)              Media was cooled in the presence of H2 and N2 at
                                reaction ratios until the media reached 70 'C
                                         -23-

[0096]       Figure 6 shows a complete ESCA scan 600 of a sample of virgin Maxcel
740 alumina Claus catalyst (untreated and unused), which is available from Porocel
of Little Rock, AR. Maxcel 740 is an iron-doped alumina catalyst. As shown in
Figure 6, there is no sulfur in this virgin catalyst, which would appear in area 605 (in
approximately the 176-154 eV range). The composition of the virgin catalyst
includes approximately 72.6 % oxygen, 24.5 % aluminum, 0.5 % iron, and 0.5 %
sodium. The capacity of this material as a media was 0 mg-mercury/kg-media.
[0097]       After the virgin catalyst was treated according to method 100 using the
parameters set forth in Table 1, an ESCA scan was performed on a sample of the
resulting media #1. Figure 7 shows an ESCA scan 700 of a sample of media #1.
The ESCA scan indicates that at least one sulfur species is present, as shown by
peak 705. The composition of a sample of media #1 includes approximately 66.8 %
oxygen, 10.6 % aluminum, 5.7 % sulfur, and 9.6 % iron. The sulfur exists as nearly
100 % sulfate species. The capacity of a sample of media #1, as determined by a
spin test, was determined to be about 340 mg-mercury/kg-media.
[0098]       Figure 8 shows an ESCA scan 800 of a sample of media #1 after it has
been washed with water. The ESCA scan shows that the sulfur species was still
present after washing (peak 805), thereby suggesting the sulfur species is bound or
linked to the support substrate in some way. The composition of a sample of media
#1 after washing includes approximately 68.8 % oxygen, 24.2 % aluminum, 1.4 %
sulfur, and 1.4 % iron. The sulfur exists as about 90 % sulfate species and 10 %
sulfide species. The capacity of samples of this media #1 after washing, as
determined by a spin test, ranged from about 330 mg-mercury/kg-media to about
724 mg-mercury/kg-media and about 436 mg-arsenic/kg-media. One sample of the
media #1 demonstrated a ferric sulfate loss of 2000 pg-Fe/L of wash water.
[0099]       Figure 9 shows another ESCA scan 900 of a sample of virgin Maxcel
740 alumina Claus catalyst (untreated and unused), focusing on the region of about
88-68 eV. Likewise, Figure 10 shows another ESCA scan 1000 of a sample of
media #1, also focusing on the region of about 88-68 eV. These two scans show a
shift in the aluminum peak from about 73.333 eV in the virgin Maxcel 740 alumina
sample (peak 905) to about 74.060 eV in the media #1 sample (peak 1005). This
energy shift is believed to be due to interactions between the alumina support
                                            -24-

substrate and the reactants introduced by the various implementations of method
100, e.g., as performed in accordance with the parameters set forth in Table 1. For
example, sulfur may be substituting for oxygen in part of the alumina and/or iron
oxide matrix of the support substrate (e.g., due to a covalent and/or ionic bond). It is
theorized that this interaction is responsible, at least in part, for the reduction in the
loss of the active compound from the support substrate when the media is used to
treat contaminated fluids and the resulting retention of the contaminant species.
[0100]       As stated generally herein, the parameters in Table 1 can be varied to
achieve desired media. For example, during the reaction step (150), the hydrogen
concentration can be varied from 3-10 vol %, and the nitrogen concentration can be
varied from 50-95%. Also, hydrogen sulfide, in concentrations varying from 2-5 vol
%, and air, in concentrations varying from 0-35 vol %, can also be used.
Furthermore, the reaction temperature can vary from 150-400 'C, and the reaction
time can vary from 0.5-2.0 hours. The active compound can vary from 5-20 wt % in
the dopant mixture.
Illustrative example media #2
[0101]       An active media, media #2, was prepared according to certain steps of
the method described in Table 1. However, a spent alumina catalyst that was used in
the production of hydrogen peroxide was used as the media base in place of the
Maxcel 740 material (the alumina catalyst was a low sodium Alcan catalyst
available from Arkema, Inc. of Philadelphia, PA). In addition, the second doping
step and wash steps were omitted. Also, a mixture of hydrogen and hydrogen
sulfide was used during the reaction step in place of the nitrogen and hydrogen. All
other steps in the process remained essentially the same as used to produce media
#1. Figure 11 shows a complete ESCA scan 1100 of a spent alumina-based catalyst
used in the product of hydrogen peroxide. As shown in Figure 11, there is no sulfur
in this used catalyst, which would appear in area 1105 (in approximately the 176
154 eV range). The composition of the spent catalyst includes approximately 62.1
% oxygen, 25.8 % aluminum, 11.8 % carbon, and 0.3 % sodium. The capacity of
this material as a media was 0 mg-mercury/kg-media.
[0102]       After the spent alumina catalyst was treated according to method 100
using the parameters set forth in Table 1 (excluding the omitted steps), an ESCA
                                           -25-

scan was performed on a sample of the resulting media #2. Figure 12 shows an
ESCA scan 1200 of a sample of media #2. The ESCA scan indicates that at least
one sulfur species is present, as shown by peak 1205. The composition of a sample
of media #2 includes approximately 53 % oxygen, 16 % aluminum, 1.6 % sulfur, 2.8
% iron, and 26.7 % carbon. The sulfur exists as nearly 100 % sulfate species. The
capacity of a sample of media #2, as determined by a spin test, was determined to be
about 221 mg-mercury/kg-media.
[0103]       Figure 13 shows an ESCA scan 1300 of a sample of media #2 after it has
been washed with water. The ESCA scan shows that the sulfur species was still
present after washing (peak 1305), thereby suggesting the sulfur species is bound or
linked to the support substrate in some way. The composition of a sample of media
#2 after washing includes approximately 58 % oxygen, 16.3 % aluminum, 1.6 %
sulfur, 1.3 % iron, and 22.8 % carbon. The sulfur exists as about 100 % sulfate
species. The capacity of a sample of this media #2 after washing, as determined by
a spin test, was about 113 mg-mercury/kg-media.
Illustrative example media #3
[0104]       An active media, media #3, was prepared according to the method
described in Table 2. The representative steps of method 100 are also listed in Table
2.
Table 2 - Illustrative parameters for manufacture of media #3
Media base (step 110)             Maxcel 740 virgin alumina Claus catalyst; target
                                  Net LOI at 1000 'C < 7 %; macro porosity at 750 A
                                  of greater than 0.1 cc/g
Wash liquid, drying time,         The substrate is dried for up to 1 hours at 150 'C in
and drying temperature (step      a vacuum
140)
Reaction temperature,             The substrate is heated to 200 'C in up to 30 vol %
atmospheric composition,          H 2S, 5 vol % H2 , and 75 vol % N 2 at a range of
and reaction duration (step       pressures up to 10 psig for up to 5 hours
150)
Cooling (step 150)                The media is cooled in the presence of H 2S, H 2 , and
                                  N 2 at reaction ratios until the media is 70 'C
                                            -26-

Final media size (step 160)          Media is sieved to isolate suitable particles in the
                                     12x40 range; larger particles are ground to particles
                                     approximately 12x40, 40x60, -100 mesh; substrate /
                                     media may be ground before or after the reaction
                                     and cooling steps
[0105]        After the virgin catalyst was treated according to method 100 using the
parameters set forth in Table 2, an ESCA scan was performed on a sample of the
resulting media #3. Figure 14 shows an ESCA scan 1400 of a sample of media #3.
The ESCA scan indicates that at least one sulfur species is present, as shown by
peaks 1405. The composition of a sample of media #3 includes approximately 69.5
% oxygen, 28.2 % aluminum, 0.2 % sulfur, and 2.1 % carbon. The sulfur exists as
about 50 % sulfate species and 50 % sulfide species. The capacity of a sample of
media #3, as determined by a spin test, was determined to be about 763 mg
mercury/kg-media.
[0106]        As stated generally herein, the parameters in Table 2 can be varied to
achieve desired media. For example, during the reaction step (150), the hydrogen
sulfide concentration can be varied from 2-5 vol %, the hydrogen concentration can
be varied from 3-10 vol %, the nitrogen concentration can be varied from 50-95 vol
%, and the air concentration can be varied from 0-35 vol %. Furthermore, the
reaction temperature can be varied from 120-400 'C, and the reaction time can be
varied from 1-5 hours.
Illustrative example media #4
[0107]        An active media, media #4, was prepared according to the method
described in Table 2. However, a SULFATREAT XLP material (available from M-I
SWACO of Houston, TX), with sizing capability in US mesh sizes of 12 to 100, was
used as the media base in place of the Maxcel 740 material. All other steps in the
process remained essentially the same as used to produce media #3.
[0108]        Figure 15 shows an ESCA scan 1500 of a sample of virgin
SULFATREAT XLP material (untreated and unused). As shown in Figure 15, there
is very little sulfur in this virgin catalyst, which would appear in areas 1505 of the
ESCA scan. The composition of the virgin material includes approximately 50 %
                                              -27-

oxygen, 0.3 % aluminum, 0.1 % sulfur, 10.6 % iron, 35.1 % carbon, and 3.8 %
silicon. The sulfur species exists as nearly 100 % sulfate.
[0109]       After the virgin material was treated according to method 100 using the
parameters set forth in Table 2, an ESCA scan was performed on a sample of the
resulting media #4. Figure 16 shows an ESCA scan 1600 of a sample of media #4.
The ESCA scan indicates that sulfur species are present, as shown by peaks 1605.
The composition of a sample of media #4 includes approximately 49.6 % oxygen,
0.4 % aluminum, 3.4 % sulfur, 13.7 % iron, 28.5 % carbon, and 4.4 % silicon. The
sulfur exists as about 30 % sulfate species and about 70 % sulfide species. The
capacity of samples of media #4, as determined by a spin test, ranged from about
1011 mg-mercury/kg-media to 1127 mg-mercury/kg-media. Meanwhile, the
capacity of samples of media #4, as determined by a column test, ranged from at
least 2759 mg-mercury/kg-media to at least 3822 mg-mercury/kg-media. The
capacity of another sample of media #4, as determined by a column test of extended
duration, was at least 12,238 mg-mercury/kg-media (for an equivalent effective
treatment life of over 27,434 bed volumes).
[0110]       Figure 17 shows an ESCA scan 1700 of a sample of media #4 after it has
been washed with water. The ESCA scan shows that the sulfur species were still
present after washing (peak 1705), thereby suggesting the sulfur species is bound or
linked to the support substrate in some way. The composition of a sample of media
#4 after washing includes approximately 51 % oxygen, 0.5 % aluminum, 1.7 %
sulfur, 10.9 % iron, 28.5 % carbon, 6.4 % silicon, and 0.9 % Ca. The sulfur exists as
about 20 % sulfate species and 80 % sulfide species. The capacity of a sample of
this media #4 after washing, as determined by a spin test, was about 445 mg
mercury/kg-media.
Illustrative example media #5
[0111]       An active media, media #5, was prepared according to the method
described in Table 2. However, a spent SULFATREAT XLP material, which had
been used to remove hydrogen sulfide from natural gas, was used as the media base
in place of the Maxcel 740 material. All other steps in the process remained
essentially the same as used to produce media #3.
                                           -28-

[0112]       Figure 18 shows an ESCA scan 1800 of a sample of spent
SULFATREAT XLP material (untreated and used). As shown in Figure 18, several
sulfur species exist in the spent material, as shown by peaks 1805 (corresponding to
sulfide), 1810 (corresponding to sulfite), and 1815 (corresponding to sulfate). The
composition of the spent material includes approximately 49.6 % oxygen, 0.8 %
aluminum, 5.3 % sulfur, 8.7 % iron, 29.3 % carbon, 4.6 % silicon, and 1.7 %
chlorine. The sulfur species exists as nearly equal portions of sulfate and sulfide,
with trace amount of sulfite. The capacity of samples of this media #5, as
determined by a spin test, ranged from about 332 mg-mercury/kg-media to about
1025 mg-mercury/kg-media.
[0113]       After the spent SULFATREAT XLP material was treated according to
method 100 using the parameters set forth in Table 2, an ESCA scan was performed
on a sample of the resulting media #5. Figure 19 shows an ESCA scan 1900 of a
sample of media #5. The ESCA scan indicates that sulfur species are present, as
shown by peaks 1905. The amount of sulfur species present increased relative to the
used SULFATREAT XLP alone. The composition of a sample of media #5 includes
approximately 50.4 % oxygen, 1.2 % aluminum, 7.3 % sulfur, 9.3 % iron, 25.8 %
carbon, 3.2 % silicon, 1.3 % chlorine, 0.8 % calcium, and 0.7 % sodium. The sulfur
exists as about 60 % sulfate species and about 40 % sulfide species. The capacity of
a sample of media #5, as determined by a spin test, was about 1924 mg-mercury/kg
media.
Illustrative example media #6
[0114]       An active media, media #6, was prepared according to the method
described in Table 3. The representative steps of method 100 are also listed in Table
3.
Table 3 - Illustrative parameters for manufacture of media #6
Media base (step 110)             Maxcel 740 virgin alumina Claus catalyst; target
                                  Net LOI at 1000 'C < 7 %; macro porosity at 750 A
                                  of greater than 0.1 cc/g
Media sizing (step 160)           Media is ground to sizing of 12x40 mesh prior to
                                  further processing
Mixing (step 130)                 Sulfur powder (-100 US mesh and 99.9 % pure) is
                                           -29-

                                  added and physically mixed with the alumina
                                  substrate; concentration can range from 15-35 wt %
Drying (step 140)                 The mixture is heated to 120 'C for 30 minutes
Reaction temperature,             The mixture of substrate and sulfur is reacted with
atmospheric composition,          H 2S (less than 5 vol %), H2 (20 vol %), the balance
and reaction duration (step       N 2 for up to 90 minutes at 250 'C at pressures up to
150)                              10 psig
Cooling (step 150)                Media is cooled in the presence of H2 S, H 2, and N 2
                                  at reaction ratios until the media is 70 'C
[0115]      After the virgin Maxcel 740 catalyst was treated according to method 100
using the parameters set forth in Table 3, an ESCA scan was performed on a sample
of the resulting media #6. Figure 20 shows an ESCA scan 2000 of a sample of
media #6. The ESCA scan indicates that sulfur species are present, as shown by
peaks 2005. The composition of a sample of media #6 includes approximately 58.7
% oxygen, 24.2 % aluminum, 3.2 % sulfur, 13.6 % carbon, and 0.2 % sodium. The
sulfur exists as about 20 % sulfate species and about 80 % sulfide species. The
capacity of samples of media #6, as determined by a spin test, ranged from about
1021 mg-mercury/kg-media to about 1630 mg-mercury/kg-media. Meanwhile, the
capacity of a sample of media #6, as determined by a column test, was at least 3681
mg-mercury/kg-media. The capacity of another sample of media #6, as determined
by a column test of extended duration, was at least 10,332 mg-mercury/kg-media
(for an equivalent effective treatment life of over 18,160 bed volumes).
[0116]      As stated generally herein, the parameters in Table 3 can be varied to
achieve desired media. For example, during the reaction step (150), the hydrogen
sulfide concentration can be varied from 2-5 vol %, the hydrogen concentration can
be varied from 3-10 vol %, and the nitrogen concentration can be varied from 85-95
vol %. Furthermore, the reaction temperature can vary from 130-300 'C, and the
reaction time can vary from 0.5-2.0 hours. The amount of sulfur mixed with the
substrate can vary between 10-35 wt % of the combined weight of the substrate and
sulfur.
                                           -30-

[0117]      A water sample was treated with media #5 to reduce metal ion impurity
levels. The concentrations of metals were analyzed. The results are shown in Table
4. As Table 4 shows, most metal ions, including mercury, arsenic, cadmium, were
effectively removed and the residue barium and chromium levels were below the
TCLP (Toxic Characteristic Leaching Procedure) limits.
Table 4. Treatment of water sample by media #5
         Metal Ion               Measure concentration                  Unit
          Arsenic                    Non Detected                       mg/L
           Barium                        0.0575                         mg/L
         Cadmium                     Non Detected                       mg/L
         Chromium                        0.0660                         mg/L
            Lead                     Non Detected                       mg/L
         Selenium                    Non Detected                       mg/L
            Silver                   Non Detected                       mg/L
          Mercury                    Non Detected                       mg/L
[0118]      As described throughout the disclosure, the methods, systems, and
techniques presented herein overcome the limitations and drawbacks of the known
techniques. It will be appreciated that the scope of the present invention is not
limited to the above-described embodiments, but encompasses modifications of and
improvements to what has been described.
What is claimed is:
                                          -31-

                                  CLAIMS
1. A sorption media, comprising:
   a support substrate, the support substrate comprising a porous metallic
       material; and
   a sulfur species chemically bonded to the support substrate,
   wherein the media includes at least 10 mol % aluminum species.
2. The sorption media of claim 1, wherein the sulfur species is chemically
   bonded to the support substrate by at least one of an ionic bond and a
   covalent bond.
3. The sorption media of claim 1, wherein the support substrate comprises
   alumina.
4. The sorption media of claim 1, wherein the sorption media further comprises
   an iron species.
5. The sorption media of claim 1, wherein the sorption media is substantially
   free of iron species.
6. The sorption media of claim 1, wherein the sulfur species comprises at least
   50 mol % sulfate.
7. The sorption media of claim 6, wherein the sulfur species comprises at least
   90 mol % sulfate.
8. The sorption media of claim 1, wherein the sulfur species comprises at least
   80 mol % sulfide.
9. The sorption media of claim 1, wherein the sorption media has a sulfur
   content of at least 1.4 mol %.
                                     -32-

10. The sorption media of claim 1, wherein the sorption media has a contaminant
    capacity of at least 1000 mg-mercury/kg-media.
11. The sorption media of claim 10, wherein the sorption media has a
    contaminant capacity of at least 2000 mg-mercury/kg-media.
12. The sorption media of claim 11, wherein the sorption media has a
    contaminant capacity of at least 3000 mg-mercury/kg-media.
13. The sorption media of claim 12, wherein the sorption media has a
    contaminant capacity of at least 10,000 mg-mercury/kg-media.
14. The sorption media of claim 1, wherein the bond between the sulfur species
    and support substrate reduces the amount of sulfur species removed from the
    support substrate when the media is in contact with a fluid relative to the
    amount of sulfur species that would be removed without said bond.
15. A sorption media, comprising:
    a support substrate, the support substrate comprising a porous metallic
        material; and
    a sulfur species chemically bonded to the support substrate,
    wherein the media includes at least 9 mol % iron species.
16. The sorption media of claim 15, wherein the sulfur species is chemically
    bonded to the support substrate by at least one of an ionic bond and a
    covalent bond.
17. The sorption media of claim 15, wherein the support substrate comprises iron
    oxides.
                                      -33-

18. The sorption media of claim 15, wherein the support substrate comprises an
    iron-containing catalyst for the removal of sulfur compounds from a gas
    stream.
19. The sorption media of claim 15, wherein the media further comprises an
    aluminum species.
20. The sorption media of claim 15, wherein the sulfur species comprises at least
    70 mol % sulfide.
21. The sorption media of claim 20, wherein the sulfur species comprises at least
    80 mol % sulfide.
22. The sorption media of claim 15, wherein the sulfur species comprises at least
    60 mol % sulfate.
23. The sorption media of claim 15, wherein the sorption media has a sulfur
    content of at least 7.3 mol %.
24. The sorption media of claim 15, wherein the sorption media has a
    contaminant capacity of at least 400 mg-mercury/kg-media.
25. The sorption media of claim 24, wherein the sorption media has a
    contaminant capacity of at least 1000 mg-mercury/kg-media.
26. The sorption media of claim 25, wherein the sorption media has a
    contaminant capacity of at least 3500 mg-mercury/kg-media.
27. The sorption media of claim 26, wherein the sorption media has a
    contaminant capacity of at least 12,000 mg-mercury/kg-media.
28. The sorption media of claim 15, wherein the bond between the sulfur species
    and support substrate reduces the amount of sulfur species removed from the
    support substrate when the media is in contact with a fluid relative to the
    amount of sulfur species that would be removed without said bond.
                                       -34-

29. A method of manufacturing a sorption media, comprising
    selecting a support substrate comprising a porous metallic material;
    providing a doping mixture comprising a first sulfur species dissolved in a
         solvent;
    contacting the selected support substrate with the doping mixture at a first
         temperature for a first duration to form a doped substrate; and
    reacting the doped substrate at a second temperature in a selected
         atmospheric environment for a second duration to form the sorption
         media,
    wherein the sorption media comprises a second sulfur species chemically
         bonded to the support substrate.
30. The sorption media of claim 29, wherein the second sulfur species is
    chemically bonded to the support substrate by at least one of an ionic bond
    and a covalent bond.
31. The method of claim 29, wherein selecting the support substrate comprises
    selecting a support substrate from a group consisting of an iron-, alumina-,
    silicon-, titanium-, carbon-based substrate, and a mixture thereof.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein selecting the support substrate comprises
    selecting a material comprising iron.
33. The method of claim 31, wherein selecting the support substrate comprises
    selecting a material comprising alumina.
34. The method of claim 29, wherein the doping mixture includes at least one of
    ferric sulfate, ammonium sulfate, copper sulfate, and copper chloride.
                                        -35-

35. The method of claim 29, wherein the first temperature is between about 20
    'C and about 60 'C.
36. The method of claim 29, wherein the first duration is between about 20
    minutes and about 45 minutes.
37. The method of claim 29, wherein the second temperature is between about
    150 'C and about 400 -C.
38. The method of claim 29, wherein the second duration is between about 0.5
    hours and about 2 hours.
39. The method of claim 29, wherein the atmospheric environment comprises
    about 2 vol % to about 5 vol % hydrogen sulfide.
40. The method of claim 29, wherein the atmospheric environment comprises
    about 3 vol % to about 10 vol % hydrogen.
41. The method of claim 29, wherein the atmospheric environment comprises
    about 50 vol % to about 95 vol % nitrogen.
42. The method of claim 29, wherein the atmospheric environment comprises
    less than about 35 vol % air.
43. A method of manufacturing a sorption media, comprising
    selecting a support substrate comprising a porous metallic material;
    selecting an atmospheric environment comprising at least hydrogen sulfide;
        and
    reacting the support substrate at a first temperature in the selected
        atmospheric environment for a first duration to form the sorption media,
    wherein the selected sorption media comprises a sulfur species chemically
        bonded to the support substrate.
                                      -36-

44. The sorption media of claim 43, wherein the second sulfur species is
    chemically bonded to the support substrate by at least one of an ionic bond
    and a covalent bond.
45. The method of claim 43, wherein selecting the support substrate comprises
    selecting a support substrate from a group consisting of an iron-, alumina-,
    silicon-, titanium-, carbon-based substrate, and a mixture thereof.
46. The method of claim 45, wherein selecting the support substrate comprises
    selecting a material comprising iron.
47. The method of claim 45, wherein selecting the support substrate comprises
    selecting a material comprising alumina.
48. The method of claim 43, wherein the first temperature is between about 120
    'C and about 400 'C.
49. The method of claim 43, wherein the first duration is between about 1 hours
    and about 5 hours.
50. The method of claim 43, wherein the atmospheric environment comprises
    about 2 vol % to about 5 vol % hydrogen sulfide.
51. The method of claim 43, wherein the atmospheric environment comprises
    about 3 vol % to about 10 vol % hydrogen.
52. The method of claim 43, wherein the atmospheric environment comprises
    about 50 vol % to about 95 vol % nitrogen.
53. The method of claim 43, wherein the atmospheric environment comprises
    less than about 35 vol % air.
                                      -37-

54. The method of claim 43, further comprising mixing elemental sulfur with the
    selected substrate before reacting the support substrate in the selected
    atmospheric environment.
55. The method of claim 54, wherein an amount of the elemental sulfur mixed
    with the selected substrate is between about 10 wt % and about 35 wt % of a
    total weight of the elemental sulfur and selected substrate combined.
56. The method of claim 54, wherein the first temperature is between about 130
    'C and about 300 'C.
57. The method of claim 54, wherein the first duration is between about 0.5
    hours and about 2 hours.
58. The method of claim 54, wherein the atmospheric environment comprises
    about 85 vol % to about 95 vol % nitrogen.
59. The method of claim 54, wherein the atmospheric environment comprises
    substantially no air.
60. A method of reducing a level of metallic species contamination of a fluid, the
    method comprising:
    contacting the fluid including the metallic species contamination with a
         sorption media, wherein the sorption media comprises a sulfur species
        chemically bonded to a support substrate.
61. The sorption media of claim 60, wherein the sulfur species is chemically
    bonded to the support substrate by at least one of an ionic bond and a
    covalent bond.
62. The method of claim 60, wherein the support substrate includes at least one
    of an iron-, alumina-, silicon-, titanium-, and carbon-based substrate.
                                        -38-

63. The method of claim 62, wherein the support substrate comprises an iron
    species.
64. The method of claim 62, wherein the support substrate comprises alumina.
65. The method of claim 60, wherein the sulfur species comprises at least one of
    a sulfate, a sulfite, and a sulfide species.
66. The method of claim 60, wherein the fluid comprises an aqueous liquid.
67. The method of claim 60, wherein the metallic species contamination
    comprises at least one of arsenic, mercury, a D-block metal, and a heavy
    metal species.
68. The method of claim 60, wherein the metallic species contamination
    comprises at least one of barium, strontium, uranium, lead, titanium, zinc,
    and chromium species.
69. The method of claim 60, wherein the metallic species contamination
    comprises at least one ionic mercury species, the method further comprising
    selecting the sorption media for contacting the fluid from a plurality of
    sorption medias based on the sulfur species of the selected sorption media
    including a sulfide species.
70. The method of claim 60, wherein the metallic species contamination
    comprises at least one inorganic mercury species, the method further
    comprising selecting the sorption media for contacting the fluid from a
    plurality of sorption medias based on the sulfur species of the selected
    sorption media including a sulfate species.
71. The method of claim 60, wherein the metallic species contamination
    comprises at least one inorganic mercury species and at least one ionic
    mercury species, the method further comprising selecting the sorption media
    for contacting the fluid from a plurality of sorption medias based on the
    sulfur species of the selected sorption media including a sulfate species and a
    sulfide species.
                                        -39-

72. The method of claim 60, wherein the metallic species contamination
    comprises at least one inorganic mercury species and at least one ionic
    mercury species, the method further comprising selecting at least a first and a
    second sorption media for contacting the fluid from a plurality of sorption
    medias based on the sulfur species of the first selected sorption media
    including a sulfate species and the sulfur species on the second selected
    media including a sulfide species.
                                      -40-

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
