                                    ABSTRACT
A method for removing contaminants from a gas stream by feeding the gas
stream into a scrubber that can use seawater as the scrubbing medium. The
gas stream is first scrubbed with the seawater and then mixed with ozone to
remove the contaminants. Nitrogen oxides that are present in the gas stream
are converted to nitric acid/nitrates and these are recovered via condensate
or coalesced mist for neutralization. The treated gas stream is then
exhausted to the atmosphere.

METHODS FOR REMOVING CONTAMINANTS FROM EXHAUST GASES
            CROSS REFERENCE TO RELEATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]     This application claims priority from US provisional application
Serial No 61/640,128, filed April 20, 2012.
                     BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]     The invention provides for methods for removing contaminants
selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides,
particulates, heavy metals and acid gases from gas streams. More
particularly, the invention provides for the removal of contaminants from gas
streams arising from engines and other combustion devices on board ships
and on land where seawater is used for scrubbing of the combustion gas
streams.
[0003]     The invention can also treat exhaust gas streams from chemical,
metallurgical, partial and full combustion processes by the removal of
contaminants such as nitrogen oxide, sulfur oxides, hydrochloric acid and
particulate materials when co-scrubbing of nitrogen oxides would generate
nitrates that are objectionable by-products.
[0004]     The nitrogen oxides captured are separated from the other
contaminants in the gas stream. This produces a smaller quantity of nitrate
containing liquid stream that needs to be processed before it can be
discharged or re-used.
[0005]     Combustion and chemical processes generally result in gas
streams containing contaminants that need to be cleaned up before the gas
stream is exhausted to the atmosphere.
                                          1

 [0006]     Large ocean freighters, ferries, ocean liners and navy vessels use
 low cost hydrocarbon fuels that contain sulphur, chlorine, nitrogen and metal
 compounds in hydrocarbons which results in exhaust gases with
 contaminants such as acid gases, particulate matter and heavy metals. As
 per new legislative mandates, these large emitters need to clean up the flue
gas stream before exhausting it to the atmosphere. Amongst many
technologies and devices, aqueous scrubbing using seawater is one of the
 more widely used techniques to remove acid gases such as sulfur oxides,
chlorine, hydrochloric acid, etc., particulates and other contaminants.
Seawater is mildly alkaline and generally used in once through mode to
 neutralize the acidic components present in the seawater to form salts that
are permitted to be discharged back to the ocean in an environmentally safe
manner.
[0007]      Many industrial installations using wet scrubbers such as fluid
catalytic cracker regenerators and electrical generation along the sea coast
use seawater for scrubbing in a once through or recycle mode.
[0008]      In combustion processes, in addition to sulfur oxides, hydrochloric
acid, chlorine and other acid gases, nitrogen oxides are also formed due to a
number of reasons such as high flame temperature (thermal NOx),
nitrogenous compounds present in the fuel (fuel NOx) or nitrogenous content
of material subjected to combustion temperatures such as incineration of
waste.
[0009]      Nitrogen oxides formed at temperatures above 1300*F (~704*C)
are mainly in the form of nitric oxide, NO. Nitric oxide is the major component
of nitrogen oxides in combustion processes. Nitric oxide is almost insoluble in
water so aqueous scrubbing removes negligible amounts of nitric oxide from
nitrogen oxide streams. Coal, solid fuels, heavy oils and other carbon feed
stocks when combusted form exhaust gas streams that contain particulate
matter and other objectionable contaminants such as heavy metals like
                                          2

 mercury which may or may not be effectively scrubbed by aqueous scrubbing
 operations.
 [0010]     Amongst all absorption processes, ozone-based processes as
 described in US Pat Nos. 6,162,409; 5,206,002; and 7,303,735 provide multi
 pollutant removal approaches and have been implemented on flue gas arising
from gas and coal fired boilers for removal of multiple pollutants including
 nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, particulates, etc. Ozone-based processes are
 also industrially practiced in lowering emissions in metal pickling processes,
fluidized catalytic cracker (FCC) regenerators, and metal recovery furnaces.
 [0011]     The method as disclosed in US Pat Nos. 6,162,409; 5,206,002;
6,649,132 and 7,303,735 uses the chemistry of nitrogen oxide reaction with
ozone to form higher oxides of nitrogen, especially the pentavalent form or
 higher. These oxides are very soluble in water and are easily removed by wet
scrubbing. The stoichiometric amount of ozone required to convert one mole
of nitrogen oxides in the form of NO to the pentavalent form is about 1.5
 moles of ozone. This number is reduced to 0.5 moles of ozone if the nitrogen
oxides are in the form of N02.
 [0012]     Although the methods described in these patents are effective at
achieving low levels of nitrogen oxides emissions in the treated gas stream,
they generate nitrate/nitric acid in the scrubber purge. The nitrate/nitric acid
needs to be treated and disposed of in an environmentally safe way or must
be utilized in making a useful by-product. This all adds to the expense of
treating for the nitrogen oxides.
[0013]      When seawater is used as a scrubbing medium, it is used in a once
through mode due to its limited alkalinity. This generates a large quantity of
liquid discharge from the wet scrubber. When ozone is added for nitrogen
oxides removal, the purge stream will contain nitrates which will require
treatment before discharge back to the sea.
                                          3

[0014]    The invention is able to overcome the problems that earlier
methods have experienced. Contamination of scrubber purge with nitrate is
mitigated so that a large quantity of seawater can be used in a once through
scrubbing medium that can be safely discharged without additional
treatments. A separate scrubber for nitrogen oxides removal is also not
necessary thereby minimizing capital investment in retrofitting acid gas (sulfur
oxides, hydrochloric acid, etc.) or particulate scrubbing equipment with
nitrogen oxides control.
                        SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0015]    In one embodiment of the invention, there is disclosed a method for
removing contaminants from a gas stream comprising the steps of:
a)     Feeding the gas stream containing contaminants into a scrubber;
b)     Contacting the gas stream containing contaminants with a scrubbing
medium comprising seawater;
c)     Contacting the gas stream containing contaminants with ozone; and
d)     Recovering a gas stream free of contaminants.
[0016]    In another embodiment of the invention, there is disclosed a
method for removing contaminants from a gas stream comprising the steps
of:
a)     Feeding the gas stream containing contaminants into a scrubber;
b)     Contacting the gas stream containing contaminants with a scrubbing
medium comprising seawater;
                                         4

 c)       Feeding the gas stream containing contaminants to a droplet separator
 in fluid communication with the scrubber;
 d)       Contacting the gas stream containing contaminants with ozone; and
 e)       Recovering a gas stream free of contaminants.
 [0017]      The gas stream that is treated is typically a flue gas stream from a
 combustion or chemical process. Typically too these flue gas streams are
from onboard ship processes or from operations that are near the ocean
where seawater is plentiful. These flue gas streams typically contain
 contaminants selected from the group consisting of particulates, sulfur oxides,
 nitrogen oxides, acid gases and heavy metals such as mercury.
 [0018]     The contaminants, particularly the sulfur oxides and the nitrogen
oxides will react when contacted with the ozone. These reactions will also
 produce byproducts such as nitrates and nitric acid which may be recovered
for additional operational uses or they may be treated and disposed of in
preferably an environmentally responsible manner.
[0019]      The scrubber is typically selected from the group consisting of
spray type, venturi type, rod, packed bed and plate column scrubbers. The
scrubber employed in the methods of the invention should be of sufficient size
to allow for the ozone to mix with the gas stream and remain in contact with
the contaminants for a sufficient enough time to oxidize the contaminants.
[0020]      The ozone will be added in an amount of greater stoichiometry than
the amount of nitrogen oxides present in the gas stream.
[0021]      The gas stream containing the oxidized nitrogen oxides can contact
a droplet separator where nitric acid that is present in the treated gas stream
                                          5

will condense and can be captured in the liquid state.
[0022]     The scrubber may further include a device selected from the group
consisting of a cooling coil, a mist eliminator and an electro static precipitator
(ESP). These devices can be used to help condense certain of the reaction
products of the reaction between the contaminants and the ozone that will be
present in the gas stream as it rises through the scrubber. These condensed
reaction products can be recovered and recycled or treated for disposal.
[0023]     The seawater is preferably fed to the scrubber through a system of
one or more distributors so that the seawater more freely contacts that gas
stream containing the contaminants to be treated. The seawater may be fed
continuously into the scrubber or it may be used on a recycle basis depending
upon the needs of the operator.
                   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0024]     Fig. I is a schematic of a scrubber incorporating ozone addition to
the flue gas stream.
[0025]     Fig. 2 is a schematic of another scrubber showing the addition of
seawater and ozone and nitrate/nitric acid purge recovery.
                DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE iNVENTION
[0026]     Flue gas is quenched and scrubbed by seawater in a wet scrubbing
device which could be a standard spray type, venturi type, rod, packed bed,
plate column or other scrubber commonly used in industrial operations for
acid gas and particulate clean up. Wet scrubbers such as EDV scrubber by
Belco Technologies or Dynawave by MECS could be employed in the
invention. These scrubbers remove particulates, sulfur oxides, hydrochloric
acid and other contaminants that are removed by a wet scrubber.
                                         6

 [0027]     Ozone is then added to the scrubbed gas stream. The oxidation of
 the nitrogen oxides is accomplished by mixing ozone with the scrubbed gas
 stream and providing adequate reaction time as described in US Pat Nos.
 7,303,735 and 7,766,995. Proper oxidation of the nitrogen oxides in the
 presence of moisture will result in the formation of nitric acid which is miscible
 with water.
 [0028]     The flue gas containing the oxidized nitrogen oxides is then
 subjected to a droplet separator to lower the carry-over mist or to a controlled
 cooling on the condensing surface. The droplets in the separator and/or on
the condensing surface provide adequate surface area to dissolve, condense,
absorb and remove nitrogen oxides.
 [0029]    The droplets are collected to form a small aqueous stream in the
droplet separator/condenser and removed and if required neutralized and
handled for safe discharge or by product use.
[0030]     The flue gas stream to be treated contains nitrogen oxides. When
ozone is mixed with this stream, the nitrogen oxides are oxidized. If all the
nitrogen oxides are in the form of nitric oxide, stoichiometric amounts of
ozone required to convert the nitric oxide to dinitrogen pentoxide is 1.5 moles
of ozone per mole of nitrogen oxide. For every mole of N02, only 0.5 moles
of ozone are required. Accordingly, a range of about 0.5 to 1.5 moles of
ozone per mole of nitrogen oxides can be added to the flue gas stream to be
treated. The nitrogen oxide oxidation to dinitrogen pentoxide involve many
reactions but for sake of brevity these reactions can be simplified as follows:
NO + 0 3 - N02 + 0    2     (1)
NO2 + 03 - NO 3 + 0 2       (2)
N02 +   N03 -- N205         (3)
                                         7

 [0031]     The reaction (1) is an order of magnitude faster compared to
 reaction (2). Reactions (1), (2) and (3) are somewhat consecutive reactions.
 N02 has finite solubility so unless the reaction is brought forward to form
oxides higher than N02 removal of nitrogen oxides in a wet scrubber is
limited. In order to form higher oxides without adding excess ozone, it is
essential to mix ozone well and provide the necessary reaction time while
minimizing back mixing. In order to achieve good nitrogen oxides removal, a
number of principles can be applied. The ozone for example can be
introduced in the gas phase by a distributor which uniformly distributes ozone
in the entire cross section of the flue gas flow. The flow path can be selected
for mixing oxygen where the gas flow is turbulent. The velocity of the ozone
containing gas stream's injection into the flue gas can be maintained at least
two times and preferably three times or more than the flow velocity of the flue
gas stream.
[0032]      Modern tools such as Computational Fluid Dynamic (CFD)
modeling can be employed to ensure through mixing of ozone in the flue gas
stream in minimum time.
[0033]      Conical or diverging nozzles in the distributor can quickly disperse
ozone into the cross section of the flowing flue gas stream. Ozone can be
mixed with large quantities of a diluent gas and introduced into the distributor
for mixing with the gas stream containing the nitrogen oxides. The ozone too
may be introduced in a co-current or counter-current direction.
[0034]      When oxidized, the nitrogen oxides are transformed into their
pentavalent form. The gas stream exiting the nitrogen oxides treatment zone
is saturated with vapor. The dinitrogen pentoxide will react with the moisture
in the gas phase forming nitric acid in the gas phase:
N205 + H20 -* 2 HNO3 (g)             (4)
                                          8

 HNO3 (g) being soluble in all proportions with liquid water will instantaneously
 dissolve in the condensing or coalescing water droplets.
 HNO3 (g) -- + HNO3 (1)                  (5)
 Some N205 since it is extremely soluble will directly dissolve in the
 condensing or coalescing water droplets
 N205   + H20 (1)-> 2 HNO3 (l)           (6)
 [0035]      If there is alkali or alkaline earth metal hydroxide, carbonates or
 bicarbonates present in the coalescing droplets, they will neutralize the nitric
acid and form nitrates. If it is condensing water vapor, then it will remain as
 nitric acid. In the instant invention, nitrogen oxides can be removed using
ozone in a gas stream without intermingling nitrates/nitric acid with the rest of
contaminants without using dual scrubbers.
[0036]       Turning to figure 1, a scrubber assembly is shown. Flue gas which
contains contaminants selected from the group consisting of particulates,
sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides and acid gases is fed through line 1 into
scrubber assembly 10. The flue gas containing the contaminants will rise
through the scrubber assembly 10 first contacting seawater which is first fed
through line 3 into a cooling coil or mist eliminator A. The seawater will exit
the cooling coil or mist eliminator A through line 5 and be fed down to join with
the flue gas as it enters the scrubber assembly 10 through line 1. Line 6 will
redirect the seawater through a number of distributors C so that the flue gas
will contact the seawater and be quenched by this contact.
[0037]       The flue gas which has been moistened by the seawater will
continue to rise through the scrubber assembly 10 and will contact ozone that
is fed through line 2 into the scrubber assembly 10. The ozone will have
sufficient space based on the size of the scrubber assembly 10 to react with
                                             9

the nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides present in the flue gas stream. This will
allow for the requisite contact time during which the ozone and nitrogen
oxides and sulfur oxides will react. Part of the reaction product will be nitric
acid which will condense or coalesce on a tray device D and will be removed
from the scrubber assembly 10 through line 9 for neutralization and either
reused as may be allowed or disposed of in an environmentally friendly
manner.
[0038]      The treated gas stream will continue to rise through the scrubber
assembly 10 and will exit as exhaust through line 4. The seawater which is
used as the scrubbing medium in the scrubber assembly 10 can be used as a
once through or recycled depending upon the operator's preferences. The
used scrubbing agent is captured at the bottom of the scrubbing assembly 10
and can be withdrawn through line 7 with the aid of a pump B and purged
from the scrubber assembly 10 through line 8.
[0039]      In a different embodiment of the invention, the ozone adding device
is a separate device from the scrubbing assembly. In figure 2, scrubbing
assembly 20 is attached to a droplet separator F. In the top of the droplet
separator F ozone is injected through line 13. Flue gas is fed through line 11
and will rise through the scrubber assembly 20 where it will contact the
seawater fed through line 12 to a distribution assembly E. The moist
scrubbed flue gas will exit scrubber assembly 20 and enter droplet separator
F.
[0040]      At the top of the droplet separator F the flue gas will contact the
ozone where the nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides present in the flue gas
stream will oxidize and their reaction products of nitrates and nitric acid will be
collected and purged through line 15. This stream can be treated and
neutralized and either used or disposed of in an environmentally friendly
manner. The treated flue gas stream will exit the droplet separator F through
line 14 and be evacuated to the atmosphere. The seawater that is employed
                                         10

 as the scrubbing medium can be used in a once through manner or be
 recycled and used for several cycles of treating the flue gas. The used
 seawater will leave the bottom of the scrubber assembly 20 through line 16
 and is assisted in its removal through line 17 by pump G.
 [0041]      Alternatively, a wet electro static precipitator (ESP) can be
 employed instead of a cooling coil or mist elimination device at the top of the
 scrubbing assembly shown in figures 1 and 2. The wet ESP condenses the
 nitric acid/nitrate over plates. Sulfur oxides and acid gas scrubbing are
 accomplished by quenching or wetting zones of the wet ESP and a small
 section downstream between the wetting zone and the charged plates is an
oxidizer for nitrogen oxides. The seawater used in the wetting zone removes
sulfur oxides, hydrochloric acid and other contaminants whereas the charged
 plates mainly capture the particulates, droplets and nitrogen oxides.
 [0042]      In other embodiments, the invention can employ using an aqueous
medium instead of sea water in the wet scrubber with once through or
recirculation of aqueous medium through spray nozzles, or flowing through
packed, bubble or plate column. The flow of liquid and gas can be counter
current or co-current. Spray may be projected to the walls of the scrubbers
as is done in the EDV scrubbers.
[0043]       Mercury or other heavy metals when present in the flue gas are
oxidized along with the nitrogen oxides and can also be removed on the
condensing/coalescing surfaces along with the nitric acid/nitrate.
Using dry adsorbents in a fluidized form or in a fixed bed can be used
downstream of the wet scrubber to adsorb moisture and oxidized nitrogen
oxides/nitric acid.
[0044]      The invention oxidizes nitrogen oxides with the addition of ozone
downstream of a wet scrubbing stage thereby separating nitrogen oxides
removal products such as nitric acid and/or nitrates from the scrubbing of
                                          11

 other contaminants present in the gas stream being treated. The scrubbing is
 preferably performed with seawater such as those industrial installations on
 sea coasts and aboard ships in a once through mode in the scrubber and
where nitrate discharge is to be avoided.
 [0045]      The invention effectively scrubs sulfur oxides, hydrochloric acid and
other gases using seawater. A method of oxidizing nitrogen oxides with
ozone in the flue gas as described in US Pat No 5,206,002. Condensing
surfaces, droplet/mist separators or wet electrostatic precipitators (ESPs) to
capture oxidized nitrogen oxides are described in US Pat No 6,162,409.
[0046]       The method of the invention eliminates contamination of
nitrate/nitric acid in the particulate scrubber or the wet scrubber for acid gas
removal but also removes the need for a separate scrubbing device for
nitrogen oxides removal and minimizes purge stream containing nitrate/nitric
acid that could be neutralized and disposed of in an environmentally
responsible manner.
[0047]       The small stream of liquid that is collected in the droplet separation
device or the cooler/condenser with nitric acid can be neutralized, processed
and disposed of in an environmentally safe manner or sold/used as a by
product.
[0048]       The separation of other contaminants in the wet scrubber leaves
nitrate/nitric acid in a less contaminated form which limits the biological
methods that can be used in digesting nitrate/nitric acid to nitrogen.
[0049]      The invention is not limited to purely sea water scrubbing but could
be employed in conjunction with any industrial wet scrubber meant for
particulate and/or acid gas scrubbing.
                                          12

[0050]      The use of a single wet scrubber that provides for nitrogen oxides
removal without intermingling nitrate/nitric acid with other contaminants is less
expensive both in terms of capital and operating expenses than prior
processes requiring multiple scrubbers.
[0051]      The volume of nitrate/nitric acid formed by the inventive process is
also minimized and the absence of other contaminants in the aqueous
effluent stream makes this stream a useful by-product such as a fertilizer.
While this invention has been described with respect to particular
embodiments thereof, it is apparent that numerous other forms and
modifications of the invention will be obvious to those skilled in the art. The
appended claims in this invention generally should be construed to cover all
such obvious forms and modifications which are within the true spirit and
scope of the invention.
                                         13

 Having thus described the invention, what I claim is:
 1.     A method for removing contaminants from a gas stream comprising the
 steps of:
 a)     Feeding the gas stream containing contaminants into a scrubber;
 b)     Contacting the gas stream containing contaminants with a scrubbing
 medium comprising seawater;
 c)     Contacting the gas stream containing contaminants with ozone; and
d)      Recovering a gas stream free of contaminants.
2.     The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein said gas stream is a flue
gas from combustion and chemical processes.
3.     The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the contaminants are
selected from the group consisting of particulates, sulfur oxides, nitrogen
oxides, acid gases and heavy metals.
4.     The method as claimed in claim I wherein the contaminants react with
the ozone.
5.     The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the scrubber is selected
from the group consisting of spray type, venturi type, rod, packed bed and
plate column.
6.     The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein ozone is mixed with the flue
gas stream for a sufficient time for the contaminants to be oxidized.
7.     The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the ozone is fed in an
                                        14

amount of greater stoichiometry than the amount of nitrogen oxides present in
the gas stream.
8.     The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the gas stream containing
oxidized nitrogen oxides contacts a droplet separator.
9.     The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising a device selected
from the group consisting of a cooling coil, mist eliminator and electro static
precipitator being present in the scrubber.
10.    The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the seawater is fed into the
scrubber through one or more distributors.
11.    The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein there is sufficient time for
contact between the ozone and the gas stream.
12.    The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein nitrates and nitric acid are
produced by contacting the gas stream containing contaminants and ozone.
13.    The method as claimed in claim 12 wherein the nitrates and nitric acid
are recovered and reused or disposed of.
14.    The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein the seawater is used on a
once through basis or is recycled.
15.    A method for removing contaminants from a gas stream comprising the
steps of:
a)     Feeding the gas stream containing contaminants into a scrubber;
b)     Contacting the gas stream containing contaminants with a scrubbing
medium comprising seawater;
                                       15

 c)       Feeding the gas stream containing contaminants to a droplet separator
 in fluid communication with the scrubber;
d)        Contacting the gas stream containing contaminants with ozone; and
 e)       Recovering a gas stream free of contaminants.
 16.      The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein said gas stream is a flue
gas from combustion and chemical processes.
 17.     The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the contaminants are
selected from the group consisting of particulates, sulfur oxides, nitrogen
oxides, acid gases and heavy metals.
 18.     The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the contaminants react
with the ozone.
19.      The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the scrubber is selected
from the group consisting of spray type, venturi type, rod, packed bed and
plate column.
20.      The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein ozone is mixed with the
flue gas stream for a sufficient time for the contaminants to be oxidized.
21.      The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the ozone is fed in an
amount of greater stoichiometry than the amount of nitrogen oxides present in
the gas stream.
22.      The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the gas stream containing
oxidized nitrogen oxides contacts a droplet separator.
23.      The method as claimed in claim 15 further comprising a device
                                        16

 selected from the group consisting of a cooling coil, mist eliminator and
 electro static precipitator being present in the scrubber.
24.     The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the seawater is fed into the
 scrubber through one or more distributors.
25.     The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein there is sufficient time for
contact between the ozone and the gas stream.
26.     The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the seawater is used on a
once through basis or is recycled.
27.     The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein the ozone is injected into
the droplet separator.
28.     The method as claimed in claim 15 wherein nitrates and nitric acid are
produced by contacting the gas stream containing contaminants and ozone.
                                         17

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
