ABSTRACT
A system and method may allow a person to rotate a skin care product based on the current
climate to help skin transition to and react to changes in temperature and humidity the air. For
example, each moisturizer may be formulated to support skin needs for a specific climate,
such as tropical climate (i.e., humid and hot air), a desert climate (i.e., dry and hot air), a
temperature climate (i.e., normal and mild air), and/or a polar climate (i.e., cold and dry air).

   TITLE
   SKINCARE SYSTEM
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   [0001] This application claims the benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent
 5 Application No. 61/933,154, tied SKINCARE SYSTEM, filed January 29, 2014, and U.S.
   Non-Provisional Application No. 14/609,400, titled SKINCARE SYSTEM, filed January
   29, 2015, the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their
   entirety.
10 BACKGROUND
            1.      Field of the Disclosure
   [0002] The present invention generally relates to a skincare system and, more particularly,
   to a three step skincare system to help a person's skin adapt to changes in climate and
   environment.
15          2.      Introduction
   [0003] Every three to six months, climate changes everywhere in the world and the change
   of temperature and humidity in the air not only cause the weather to change, but also cause
   changes in a person's skin. For instance, when the climate changes, the amount of
   humidity in the air changes, and increased or decreased humidity causes more or less
20 moisture to be drawn from the air into skin. For example, when the humidity in the air
   decreases due to a fall in temperature and the reduced capacity for air to hold moisture, for
   example, a person's skin dries out and stresses.
   [0004] Eventually, the skin adjusts by initiating multiple chemical reactions. For instance,
   the skin may try to stay warm or cool and deal with the moisture loss caused by decreased
25 humidity (e.g., dry skin) or excessive humidity in the air (e.g., sweating). Many negative
                                              1

   skin problems can occur due to this adjustment. For example, the appearance of fine lines,
   wrinkles, irritations, breakouts, etc., may be caused or accelerated.
   [0005] Because climate affects a person's skin in significant ways, the skin may look and
   feel its best in the summer and in different seasons, the skin may have different needs and
 5 may not have the desired appearance. The same is true for different locations. For
   example, the skin experiences a dry climate (e.g., in the desert) differently than it
   experiences a humid climate (e.g., in the tropics).
   [0006] The skin's ability to absorb and benefit from skincare products varies with the
   changing temperature and humidity, often making products less effective when the air
10 around the person changes in temperature and humidity. Furthermore, many people travel
   for work and pleasure, frequently exposing their skin to different climates. Because the
   face is not protected by cloth, the impact of the changing climate may cause the skin to
   struggle, and stress the skin, when it adjusts to climate changes.
15 SUMMARY
   [0007] Certain embodiments of the present invention may provide solutions to the
   problems and needs in the art that have not yet been fully identified, appreciated, or solved
   by current skin care systems. Some embodiments of the present invention provide a novel
   system and method that allows a person to rotate a skin care product based on the current
20 climate to help skin transition and react to changes in the temperature and moisture of the
   air. For example, each moisturizer may be formulated to support skin needs for a specific
   climate, such as tropical climate (i.e., humid and hot air), a desert climate (i.e., dry and hot
   air), a temperate climate (i.e., normal and mild air), and polar climate (i.e., cold and dry air).
   Furthermore, specific moisturizer types may be used based on the season in areas where
25 the temperature and/or humidity changes during the year.
   [0008] The method of changing moisturizers as climate changes of some embodiments
   helps the skin to stay moisturized and hydrated. Because the body is mostly made of
                                                2

   water, the body's ability to stay hydrated and maintain water is important. As with the
   body generally, skin tries to stay moisturized. However, due to the direct exposure to air,
   the skin has more of a challenge in maintaining hydration levels. With the system and
   method discussed herein with respect to some embodiments, the hydration of the skin may
 5 be improved.
    [0009] In one embodiment, a three-step skincare system is provided. The first two steps
   include moisturizing products containing a proprietary blend of moisturizing and anti-aging
   properties to help skin maintain hydration and youthful appearance. These products are
   not necessarily formulated for a specific climate, but instead focus on delivering the active
10 ingredients deep into the skin. However, the third step includes multiple moisturizers,
   where each product is specially formulated for a specific climate to help skin protect
   against dry air or help skin to benefit more from humidity in the air.
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
15  [0010] In order that the advantages of certain embodiments of the invention will be
   readily understood, a more particular description of the invention briefly described above
   will be rendered by reference to specific embodiments that are illustrated in the appended
   drawings. While it should be understood that these drawings depict only typical
   embodiments of the invention and are not therefore to be considered to be limiting of its
20 scope, the invention will be described and explained with additional specificity and detail
   through the use of the accompanying drawings, in which:
    [0011] FIG. 1 is a flow diagram illustrating a process for a skin care application, according
   to an embodiment of the present invention.
25 DETAILED DESCRIPTION
    [0012] Some embodiments of the present invention pertain to a three-step skin care
   system.
                                               3

    [0013] FIG. 1 is a flow diagram 100 illustrating a process for a skin care application,
   according to an embodiment of the present invention. The process begins at 105 with
   applying a hydrating liquefier to rejuvenate and balance a person's skin. At 110, a
   hydrating gel is applied to the person's skin to repair and renew the skin. At 115, based on
 5 the climate, an appropriate hydrating cream is applied to the skin for protection. The
   cream may be rotated according to the climate, e.g., a polar formulation for winter climates,
   a temperate formulation for fall and spring climates, a desert formulation for summer
   and/or dry climates, and a tropical formulation for summer and/or humid climates.
    [0014] Each step may include one or more of the following ingredients, with benefits
10 listed below:
           A Techno-Blend: an advanced blend of multiple hyaluronic acids of different
   molecular weights with purest white truffle extract rich in amino acids, minerals and
   valuable sugar ingredients. The blend is moisturizing and rich in anti-aging properties for a
   global, climate sensitive, anti-aging strategy.
15         Palmitoyl tripeptide-38: a powerful anti-wrinkle peptide, which stimulates the
   synthesis of six major constituents of the skin matrix and dermalepidermal junction
   (collagen I, III, IV, fibronectin, hyaluronic acid and laminin 5). This ingredient also evens
   out skin relief and smoothens wrinkles from the inside by rebuilding the skin.
           Ethylene/Acrylic acid copolymer: soft-focus benefit with immediate optical effect
20 by reflecting the light to minimize the appearance of fine wrinkles and other skin defaults.
           Methyl methacrylate crosspolymer: polymeric powder made up of hollow hemi
   spheres with smooth surface, it brings soft and powdery feel. This has a mattifying effect
   due to lipid absorption and the suppression of specular reflexion (immediate optical effect).
           Vitamins A, C, E complex (ascorbyl palmitate, tocopherol, retinyl palmitate):
25 vitamin A promotes the enzyme activity of the skin and increases its collagen content, and
   is thus able to regenerate skin. Vitamins E and C represent an effective combination to act
                                                4

   as antioxidants, free radical scavengers and peroxide neutralizers, in this way helping to
   prevent skin ageing as a result of UV radiation.
            Glycerin: high moisturizing agent, traps the water molecules thanks to its
   hygroscopic properties.
 5          D-Panthenol: also named pro-vitamin B5, has moisturizing, barrier restructuring
   and soothing properties.
            Thiotaine (Ergothioneine): skin brightener, and powerful antioxidant, which traps
   the free radicals responsible of premature ageing.
            Polysaccharide extracted from oat (Avena Sativa Kernel Extract): immediate
10 tensing effect.
            Purified oat extract: very high molecular weight, immediate tightening effect for
   lifting action.
            Shea butter: nourishing properties.
            Fomes Officinalis extract: pore refiner.
15          Seaweed extract (Chlorella vulgaris extract): prevents the appearance of dark circles
   by stimulating peri-ocular cutaneous microcirculation. Acts in synergy with hyaluronic acids
   complex and boosts cutaneous tonicity and firmness by stimulating the synthesis of dermal
   proteins.
            Myrtle extract: limits the appearance of signs ageing by favoring the synthesis of
20 SIRT-1 (longevity proteins) and inhibiting the glycation of collagen, an irreversible reaction
   responsible for tissue regeneration.
            Diamond sparkles: made of two marine polymers and containing diamond powder.
            Natural sucroesters: for a gelified and transparent O/W emulsion, characterized by
   a rich feel touch and a slow spread, ideal for massage. In contact with water, this gel
25 transforms into a milky emulsion easy to rinse off.
            Sugar: exfoliating, gives soapless cleanser & peel the honey color to the product.
            Silica: transparent exfoliating particles.
                                                 5

   It should be appreciated that each step may also include a unique technology blend
   Response du Climat*. This blend constructs a harmonic microenvironment within the skin
   that is sensitive to all different climates. This unique delivery system places and activates
   powerful, scientifically proven to work moisturizing and anti-aging ingredients throughout
 5 the skin layers while protecting the skin against water loss known as TEWL (Trans
   Epidermal Water Loss) and shields the skin against pollution, environmental aggressions,
   and dry air.
    [0015] This blend may also be loaded with precious, pure white truffles, rich in amino
   acids, minerals and valuable sugars and multiple hyaluronic acids of different molecule
10 weights for a sophisticated skin hydration strategy. The blend may be enhanced with the
   recommended amounts of key peptides, anti-oxidants and vitamins to firm and lift skin,
   reduce fine lines and wrinkles, tighten skin, even out skin complexion, and brighten skin
   for a gentle effective anti-aging strategy.
    [0016] It should be further appreciated that the blend may support skin cell ability to trap
15 water molecules while at the same time preventing additional water loss stimulated by
   humid air, dry air, cold air, or hot air, leaving skin looking firm, plump, hydrated, and stress
   free. The blend also acts as an accelerated carrier and delivery system to other key
   ingredients such as anti-oxidants, vitamins, and peptides, which are scientifically proven to
   work for younger, vibrant, and healthier looking skin. The blend further integrates and
20 synergizes with the changing air/climate surrounding the skin for a beautiful, luxurious
   skin complexion.
    [0017] It should be noted that skincare products generally do not work well unless the
   skincare product changes with the climate. The skin care system described herein with
   respect to some embodiments allows a person to change or rotate Day Cream as the
25 climate change/rotates so skin may be optimally cared for and look and feel its best. Each
   Day Cream may be formulated to harmonize and synergize with the liquidized lotion of the
   Hydrating Balancer, step 105, and the Gelified Serum, step 110, to maximize the
                                                 6

   moisturizing and anti-aging property distribution within the skin. By using the three step
   skincare system daily, a person can achieve excellent beauty results and prevent irritations
   and breakouts while providing optimal care and protection for skin in all climates and
   conditions.
 5 [0018] The skincare system of some embodiments not only accounts for ongoing climate
   challenges for the skin, but also solves the problem by creating a techno-blend and using a
   three step process that uniquely rotates the day creams as climate changes either when a
   person travels, the season changes, or for any other reason.
   [0019] It will be readily understood that the components of various embodiments of the
10 present invention, as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein, may be
   arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus, the detailed
   description of the embodiments of the present invention, as represented in the attached
   figures, is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed, but is merely
   representative of selected embodiments of the invention.
15 [0020] The features, structures, or characteristics of the invention described throughout
   this specification may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.
   For example, reference throughout this specification to "certain embodiments," "some
   embodiments," or similar language means that a particular feature, structure, or
   characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one
20 embodiment of the present invention. Thus, appearances of the phrases "in certain
   embodiments," "in some embodiment," "in other embodiments," or similar language
   throughout this specification do not necessarily all refer to the same group of
   embodiments and the described features, structures, or characteristics may be combined in
   any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.
25 [0021] It should be noted that reference throughout this specification to features,
   advantages, or similar language does not imply that all of the features and advantages that
   may be realized with the present invention should be or are in any single embodiment of
                                               7

    the invention. Rather, language referring to the features and advantages is understood to
    mean that a specific feature, advantage, or characteristic described in connection with an
    embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus, discussion
    of the features and advantages, and similar language, throughout this specification may, but
  5 do not necessarily, refer to the same embodiment.
    [0022] Furthermore, the described features, advantages, and characteristics of the invention
    may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. One skilled in the
    relevant art will recognize that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the
    specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances, additional
 .0 features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in
    all embodiments of the invention.
    [0023] One having ordinary skill in the art will readily understand that the invention as
    discussed above may be practiced with steps in a different order, and/ or with elements in
    configurations different than those that are disclosed. Therefore, although the invention has
 .5 been described based upon these preferred embodiments, it would be apparent to those of
    skill in the art that certain modifications, variations, and alternative constructions would be
    apparent, while remaining within the spirit and scope of the invention. In order to determine
    the metes and bounds of the invention, therefore, reference should be made to the appended
    claims.
20  [0024] Mere reference to background art herein should not be construed as an admission that
    such art constitutes common general knowledge in relation to the invention.
    [0025] Throughout this specification, including the claims, where the context permits, the
    term "comprise" and variants thereof such as "comprises" or "comprising" are to be
    interpreted as including the stated integer or integers without necessarily excluding any other
25  integers.
                                                       8

        CLAIMS
        What is claimed is:
        1.       A daily process for skin care, comprising:
        firstly, applying a hydrating liquefier to skin, the hydrating liquefier configured to
rejuvenate and balance the skin;
        secondly, applying a hydrating gel to the skin, the hydrating gel configured to repair and
renew the skin; and
        thirdly, selecting and applying a hydrating cream based on temperature and humidity in a
specific climate, wherein the hydrating cream comprises a climate-specific formulation
configured to protect the skin.
        2.       The process of claim 1, wherein the selected hydrating cream comprising the
climate-specific formulation is selected from the group of formulations comprising a polar
formulation for winter climates, a temperate formulation for fall and spring climates, a desert
formulation for summer and dry climates, and a tropical formulation for summer and humid
climates.
        3.       The process of claim 2, wherein the selected hydrating cream is formulated and
configured to mix with the hydrating liquefier to synergistically enhance effects of the hydrating
cream and the hydrating liquefier on the skin.
                                                   9

        4.       The process of claim 2, wherein the selected hydrating cream is formulated and
configured mix with the hydrating gel to synergistically enhance effects of the hydrating gel and
the hydrating liquefier on the skin.
        5.       A daily process for skin care, comprising:
        firstly, applying a hydrating liquefier to skin, the hydrating liquefier configured to
rejuvenate and balance the skin;
        secondly, applying a hydrating gel to the skin, the hydrating gel configured to repair and
renew the skin; and
        thirdly, rotating between a plurality of hydrating creams based on temperature and
humidity in a specific climate, wherein each of the plurality of hydrating creams comprises a
climate-specific formulation and are configured to protect the skin.
        6.       The process of claim 5, wherein each of the plurality of hydrating creams
comprising the climate-specific formulation is selected from the group of formulations
comprising a polar formulation for winter climates, a temperate formulation for fall and spring
climates, a desert formulation for summer and dry climates, and a tropical formulation for
summer and humid climates.
        7.       The process of claim 6, wherein each of the plurality of hydrating creams is
formulated and configured to mix with the hydrating liquefier to synergistically enhance effects
of the hydrating cream and the hydrating liquefier on the skin.
                                                  10

        8.     The process of claim 6, wherein each of the plurality of hydrating creams is
formulated and configured mix with the hydrating gel to synergistically enhance effects of the
hydrating gel and the hydrating liquefier on the skin.
                                                 11

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
