                            Abstract
  The present invention provides a water-in-oil emulsion
  comprising less than 60% water, and wherein said emulsion
5 comprises an oil phase and a water phase, and wherein the
  water phase comprises a matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor
  (MMPi) and a skin conditioning agent.
                                           10296051_1 (GHMatters) P104498.AU.1 22/05/18

                                      WATER-IN-OIL EMULSION FOR SKIN CARE
    The present application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2014393627, the entirety of
    which is incorporated herein by reference.
    Technical Field
    The present invention relates to the area of cosmetic beauty emulsion compositions and methods of
  5 using for cosmetic treatment of the skin.
    Background to the Invention
    Beauty regimes and cosmetic treatment of the skin, especially the face and neck are becoming more
    common and more desirable. Such products are often directed primarily to improving the health
    and/or physical appearance of the skin. Among these skin care products, many are directed to
 10 delaying, minimizing or even eliminating skin wrinkling and other histological changes typically
    associated with the aging of skin or environmental damage to human skin, such as photodamage.
    A large number of skin care actives are known in the art and used to improve the health and/or
    physical appearance of the skin. For example, salicylic acid and benzoyl peroxide are used in skin
    care compositions to treat acne. Retinoids, are another example of skin care, and are used in skin
 15  care compositions to reduce signs of aging skin. Although formulating skin care compositions with
    such actives provide skin care benefits, there are also challenges in formulating such compositions.
    Skin care products should be provided in a form suitable for application to the skin, hence semi-
    viscous creams are preferably over lotions and highly viscous creams. The Applicants have also
    discovered that t he feel of the product on t heir skin is also highly significant in the perception
    of efficacy and product experience.
20
    There is therefore a continuing need to formulate skin care compositions which improve t he health
    and/or physical appearance of the skin. which are for example, aesthetically pleasing, stable, and
    effective in treating the appearance of wrinkles, fine lines and skin tone.
    Many preferred components of beauty composition are water soluble and thus, skin care
25  compositions are water based in order to solubilise and/or stabilise said ingredients. However, the
    Applicants have found that whilst this might be an effective means by which to formulate the
    composition, the efficacy is reduced since the actives are essentially diluted by the presence of high
    levels of water. Oily components can provide an aesthetic benefit in the feel of the product or the
    delivery of the product to the skin. However, fewer skin care actives are soluble in an oily base
30  formulation.    The Applicants have surprisingly found that the above challenges can be addressed
    by the preparation of a skin care composition in the form of a water-in-oil emulsion.

   Summary of the Invention
   According to the present invention there is provided a water-in-oil emulsion comprising less than
   60% water, and wherein said emulsion comprises an oil phase and a water phase, and wherein the
   water phase comprises a metalloproteinase inhibitor (MMPi) and a skin conditioning agent.
 5 Detailed description of the Invention
   The Applicants have importantly found that the water soluble actives of the present invention
   provide superior benefits when delivered in a less diluted environment, as a component of the water
   phase in a water-in-oil emulsion. The term emulsion is understood to mean a mixture of two or
   more, normally immiscible liquids. Emulsions can be of different types, oil-in-water, where oil is
10 in the dispersed phase, and water is the dispersion medium, or water-in-oil, where the reverse is
   true. The present invention is concerned with water-in-oil emulsions, where water is the dispersed
   phase and oil is the dispersion medium.
   Although not wishing to be bound by theory, it is believed that by being a component of the minor
15 water phase, water soluble actives matrix metalloproteinases inhibitor (MMPi) and skin
   conditioning agents are more concentrated. Moreover, when applied to the skin, the water phase of
   the emulsion will preferentially align with the skin of the user. Since said water phase is more
   concentrated, a greater proportion of the actives have access to the skin and thus a greater
   percentage of the actives can be absorbed into the skin before the product is washed off, rubbed off
20 or otherwise removed from the surface of the skin.
   Furthermore, the oil phase of the emulsion provides a number of benefits, including providing an
   improvement in skin wettability, improved spreadability and thus delivery of product across the
   skin surface, and providing improved skin feel aesthetics. Moreover, the oil phase acts as a partial
25 occlusive which potentiate the penetration of actives into the skin. Moreover, because the oil phase
   of the emulsion, when applied to the skin, will sit atop the water phase, it effectively locks the
   actives in the water phase close to the surface of the skin for a longer period of time. A further
   benefit of the water-in-oil emulsion is that the oil phase provides a moisturisation benefit and a
   reduction in trans-epidermal water loss.
30
   Water-in-oil Emulsion
   The present invention relates to a skin care composition in the form of a water-in-oil emulsion.
   Water is present at a level of less than 60%, more preferably less than 50%, more preferably less
   than 45% by weight of the emulsion. Water is preferably present in said emulsion at a level of
                                                       2

   greater than 10%, more preferably greater than 15%, most preferably greater than 20%. Most
   preferably water is present in a range of from 35% to 45% of the emulsion composition.
   The oil phase of the emulsion can be provided by any suitable oily component. Suitable oils for the
 5 oil phase may comprise for example: a) hydrocarbon oils, such as paraffin or mineral oils; b)
   waxes, such as beeswax or paraffin wax; c) natural oils, such as sunflower oil, apricot kernel oil,
   shea butter or jojoba oil; d) silicone oils, such as dimethicone, silicone elastomer, cyclomethicone
   or cetylidimethicone; e) fatty acid esters and ethers, such as isopropyl palmitate or isopropyl
   myristate and polypropylene glycol-15 stearyl ether; f) fatty alcohols, such as cetyl alcohol or
10 stearyl alcohol; or g) mixtures thereof, for example, the blend of waxes available commercially
   under the trade name Cutina (BASF). Preferably, the emulsion comprises 0.1% to 55%, more
   preferably from 15% to 50%, most preferably from 30% to 45% by weight of the emulsion, of oil
   phase. Preferably the oil phase of the emulsion comprises oil at a level between 50% and 99.9% by
   weight of the oil phase. More preferably the oil phase comprises oil at a level of from 60% to
15 99.9%, more preferably from 70% to 99.9%, and even more preferably from 80% to 99.9% by
   weight of the oil phase.
   Preferably the oil phase of the water-in-oil emulsion comprises a silicone oil. Where present, the
   silicone-containing oil phase preferably comprises an organo polysiloxane oil. The
20 organopolysiloxane oil for use in the composition may be volatile, non-volatile, or a mixture of
   volatile and non-volatile silicones. The term "nonvolatile" as used in this context refers to those
   silicones that are liquid or gel under ambient conditions and have a flash point (under one
   atmospheric of pressure) of greater than 100 0 C. The term "volatile" as used in this context refers to
   all other silicone oils. Suitable organopolysiloxanes can be selected from a wide variety of silicones
25 spanning a broad range of volatilities and viscosities. Examples of suitable organopolysiloxane oils
   include polyalkylsiloxanes, cyclic polyalkylsiloxanes, and polyalkylarylsiloxanes.
   Polyalkylsiloxanes can be represented by the general chemical formula
30 R 3SiO [R2 SiO]  xSiR 3
   wherein R is an alkyl group having from 1 to 30 carbon atoms (preferably R is methyl or ethyl,
   more preferably methyl; also mixed alkyl groups can be used in the same molecule), and x is an
   integer from 0 to 10,000, chosen to achieve the desired molecular weight which can range to over
35 10,000,000. Commercially available polyalkylsiloxanes include the polydimethylsiloxanes, which
   are also known as dimethicones, examples of which include those sold by ShinEtsu, Momentive,
   Wacker and the Dow Coming 200 series sold by Dow Corning Corporation. Specific examples of
                                                        3

   suitable polydimethylsiloxanes include Dow Corning 2, 20, 100, 200, 225, 300 and mixtures
   thereof. Suitable dimethicones include those represented by the chemical formula
   (CH3 ) 3 SiO [(CH 3 ) 2 SiO] , [CH 3 RSiO]ySi(CH 3) 3
 5 wherein R is straight or branched chain alkyl having from 2 to 30 carbon atoms and x and y are
   each integers of 1 or greater selected to achieve the desired molecular weight which can range to
   over 10,000,000. Examples of these alkyl-substituted dimethicones include cetyl dimethicone and
   lauryl dimethicone.
10 Cyclic polyalkylsiloxanes suitable for use in the composition include those represented by the
   chemical formula [SiR 2-O]n wherein R is an alkyl group, preferably R is methyl or ethyl, more
   preferably methyl, and n is an integer from 3 to 8, more preferably n is an integer from 3 to 7, and
   still more preferably n is an integer from 4 to 6.
15 When R is methyl, these materials are typically referred to as cyclomethicones. Commercially
   available cyclomethicones include Dow Corning 244 fluid having a viscosity of 2.5 centistokes,
   and a boiling point of 172 0 C, which primarily comprises the cyclomethicone tetramer (i. e. n=4),
   Dow Corning) 344 fluid having a viscosity of 2.5 centistokes and a boiling point of 178 0C, which
   primarily comprises the cyclomethicone pentamer (i. e. n=5), Dow Corning 245 fluid having a
20 viscosity of 4.2 centistokes and a boiling point of 205 0C, which primarily comprises a mixture of
   the cyclomethicone tetramer and pentamer (i. e. n=4 and 5), and Dow Corning's 345 fluid having a
   viscosity of 4.5 centistokes and a boiling point of 217 0 C, which primarily comprises a mixture of
   the cyclomethicone tetramer, pentamer, and hexamer (i. e. n=4, 5, and 6).
25 Also useful are materials such as commercially available trimethylsiloxysilicate, which is sold as a
   mixture with dimethicone, as Dow Corning 593 fluid.
   Dimethiconols are also suitable for use in the composition. These compounds can be represented
   by the chemical formula
30
   R 3SiO [R2 SiO] xSiR 20H and HOR 2SiO [R2 SiO] xSiR 2OH
   wherein R is an alkyl group (preferably R is methyl or ethyl, more preferably methyl) and x is an
   integer from 0 to 500, chosen to achieve the desired molecular weight. Commercially available
35 dimethiconols are typically sold as mixtures with dimethicone or cyclomethicone (e. g. Dow
   Coming 1401, 1402, and 1403 fluids). Polyalkylaryl siloxanes are also suitable for use in the
   composition.
                                                         4

   Preferred for use herein are organopolysiloxanes selected from polyalkylsiloxanes, alkyl
   substituted dimethicones, cyclomethicones, trimethylsiloxysilicates. dimethiconols, polyalkylaryl
   siloxanes, and mixtures thereof. More preferred for use herein are polyalkylsiloxanes and
 5 cyclomethicones. Preferred among the polyalkylsiloxanes are
   dimethicones.
   Optionally, although preferably, the silicone is a silicone elastomer. Suitable for use herein are
   silicone elastomers which can be emulsifying or non-emulsifying crosslinked siloxane elastomers
10 or mixtures thereof. No specific restriction exists as to the type of curable organopolysiloxane
   composition that can serve as starting material for the crosslinked organopolysiloxane elastomer.
   Examples in this respect are addition reaction-curing organopolysiloxane compositions which cure
   under platinum metal catalysis by the addition reaction between SiH-containing
   diorganopolysiloxane and organopolysiloxane having silicon- bonded vinyl groups; condensation
15 curing organopolysiloxane compositions which cure in the presence of an organotin compound by
   a dehydrogenation reaction between hydroxyl-terminated diorganopolysiloxane and SiH-containing
   diorganopolysiloxane and condensation-curing organopolysiloxane compositions which cure in the
   presence of an organotin compound or a titanate ester.
20 Addition reaction-curing organopolysiloxane compositions are preferred for their rapid curing rates
   and excellent uniformity of curing. A particularly preferred addition reaction-curing
   organopolysiloxane composition is prepared from: a) an organopolysiloxane having at least 2 lower
   alkenyl groups in each molecule; b) an organopolysiloxane having at least 2 silicon-bonded
   hydrogen atoms in each molecule; and c) a platinum-type catalyst.
25
   The compositions of the present invention may include an emulsifying crosslinked
   organopolysiloxane elastomer, a non-emulsifying crosslinked organopolysiloxane elastomer, or a
   mixture thereof. The term "non-emulsifying," as used herein, defines crosslinked
   organopolysiloxane elastomers from which polyoxyalkylene units are absent. The
30 term"emulsifying," as used herein, means crosslinked organopolysiloxane elastomers having at
   least one polyoxyalkylene (e.g., polyoxyethylene or polyoxypropylene) unit. Preferred emulsifying
   elastomers herein include polyoxyalkylene modified elastomers formed from divinyl compounds,
   particularly siloxane polymers with at least two free vinyl groups, reacting with Si-H linkages on a
   polysiloxane backbone. Preferably, the elastomers are dimethyl polysiloxanes crosslinked by Si-H
35 sites on a molecularly spherical MQ resin. Emulsifying crosslinked organopolysiloxane elastomers
   can notably be chosen from the crosslinked polymers described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,412,004,
   5,837,793 and 5,811,487. In addition, an emulsifying elastomer comprised of dimethicone copolyol
                                                      5

   crosspolymer (and) dimethicone is available from Shin Etsu under the tradename KSG-21.
   Advantageously, the non-emulsifying elastomers are dimethicone crosspolymers. Such
   dimethicone crosspolymers are supplied by a variety of suppliers including Dow Corning
 5 (EL9240). Other dimethicones corsspolymers are available from General Electric (SFE 839), Shin
   Etsu (KSG-15, 16, 18 [dimethicone/phenyl vinyl dimethicone crosspolymer]), and Grant Industries
   (GRANSIL(TM) line of elastomers). Cross-linked organopolysiloxane elastomers useful in the
   present invention and processes for making them are further described in U.S. Pat. No.4,970,252,
   U.S. Pat. No.5,760,116 and U.S. Pat. No.5,654,362. Commercially available elastomers preferred
10 for use herein are Dow Coming's 9040 silicone elastomer blend, Shin Etsu's KSG-21, and mixtures
   thereof.
   Preferably the oil phase comprises silicone, and most preferably, a silicone elastomer. Preferably,
   the emulsion composition includes from 20% to 35%, by weight of the emulsion composition, of
15 the silicone elastomer raw material.
   The water-in-oil emulsions of the present invention preferably comprise an emulsifier. In a
   preferred embodiment, the composition comprises from 0.1% to 10% emulsifier, more preferably
   from 0.25% to 7.5%, still more preferably from 0.5% to 5%, emulsifier by weight of the
20 composition. The emulsifier helps disperse and suspend the aqueous water phase within the
   preferred silicone oil phase.
   Emulsifiers
   Suitable emulsifiers include all those suitable for the purpose and known by those skilled in the art
25 for use in skin care products. Preferably these emulsifiers have an HLB value of or less than 14,
   more preferably from 2 to 14, and still more preferably from 4 to 14.
   Silicone emulsifiers are preferred. A wide variety of silicone emulsifiers are useful herein. These
   silicone emulsifiers are typically organically modified organopolysiloxanes, also known to those
30 skilled in the art as silicone surfactants. Useful silicone emulsifiers include dimethicone copolyols.
   These materials are polydimethyl siloxanes which have been modified to include polyether side
   chains such as polyethylene oxide chains, polypropylene oxide chains, mixtures of these chains,
   and chains comprising moieties derived from both ethylene oxide and propylene oxide. Other
   examples include alkyl-modified dimethicone copolyols, i. e., compounds which comprise C2-C30
35 pendant side chains. Still other useful dimethicone copolyols include materials having various
   cationic, anionic, amphoteric and zwitterionic pendant moieties.
                                                        6

   The dimethicone copolyol emulsifiers useful herein can be described by the following general
   structure:
   Si(CH 3) 30[Si(CH 3) 2O]h[Si(CH 3R)O]y[Si(CH 3R 2)OLSi(CH 3) 3
 5 wherein R is C1-C30 straight, branched, or cyclic alkyl and R2 is selected from the group
   consisting of -(CH 2) a-O-(CH 2CHR 30) m-H, and -(CH 2 )n -O-(CH 2CHR 30)m-(CH 2CHR 4 0)c-H,
   wherein n is an integer from 3 to 10; R3 and R4 are selected from the group consisting of
   H and C1-C6 straight or branched chain alkyl such that R3 and R4 are not simultaneously the
   same; and m, o, x, and y are selected such that the molecule has an overall molecular weight
10 from 200 to 10,000,000, with m, o, x, and y being independently selected from integers of zero or
   greater such that m and o are not both simultaneously zero, and z being independently selected
   from integers of 1 or greater. It is recognized that positional isomers of these copolyols can be
   achieved. The chemical representations depicted above for the R2 moieties comprising the R3 and
   R4 groups are not meant to be limiting but are shown as such for convenience.
15
   Also useful herein, although not strictly classified as dimethicone copolyols, are silicone
   surfactants as depicted in the structures in the previous paragraph wherein R2 is: - (CH 2)n-O-R 5,
   wherein R5 is a cationic, anionic, amphoteric, or zwitterionic moiety.
20 Nonlimiting examples of dimethicone copolyols and other silicone surfactants useful as emulsifiers
   herein include polydimethylsiloxane polyether copolymers with pendant polyethylene oxide side
   chains, polydimethylsiloxane polyether copolymers with pendant polypropylene oxide side chains,
   polydimethylsiloxane polyether copolymers with pendant mixed polyethylene oxide and
   polypropylene oxide side chains, polydimethylsiloxane polyether copolymers with pendant mixed
25 poly (ethylene) (propylene) oxide side chains, polydimethylsiloxane polyether copolymers with
   pendant organobetaine side chains, polydimethylsiloxane polyether copolymers with pendant
   carboxylate side chains, polydimethylsiloxane polyether copolymers with pendant quaternary
   ammonium side chains; and also further modifications of the preceding copolymers comprising
   pendant C2-C30 straight, branched, or cyclic alkyl moieties. A particularly preferred emulsifier is
30 PEG/PPG-18/18 dimethicone.
   Suitable, cetyl dimethicone copolyol is commercially available as a mixture with polyglyceryl-4
   isostearate (and) hexyl laurate or as a mixture with hexyl laurate and polyglyceryl-3 oleate. Other
   nonlimiting examples of dimethicone copolyols also include lauryl dimethicone copolyol,
35 dimethicone copolyol acetate, diemethicone copolyol adipate, dimethicone copolyolamine,
   dimethicone copolyol behenate, dimethicone copolyol butyl ether, dimethicone copolyol hydroxy
                                                       7

   stearate, dimethicone copolyol isostearate, dimethicone copolyol laurate, dimethicone copolyol
   methyl ether, dimethicone copolyol phosphate, and dimethicone copolyol stearate.
   Among the non-silicone-comprising emulsifiers useful herein are various non-ionic and anionic
 5 emulsifying agents such as sugar esters and polyesters, alkoxylated sugar esters and polyesters, Cl
   C30 fatty acid esters of Cl-C30 fatty alcohols, alkoxylated derivatives of Cl-C30 fatty acid esters
   of C1 -C30 fatty alcools, alkoxylated ethers of C1 -C30 fatty alcohols, polyglyceryl esters of CI-C30
   fatty acids, C1 -C30 esters of polyols, CI-C30 ethers of polyols, alkyl phosphates, polyoxyalkylene
   fatty ether phosphates, fatty acid amides, acyl lactylates, soaps, and mixtures thereof. Nonlimiting
10 preferred examples of these non-silicon-comprising emulsifiers include: polyethylene glycol 20
   sorbitan monolaurate (Polysorbate 20), polyethylene glycol 5 soya sterol, Steareth-20, Ceteareth
   20, PPG-2 methyl glucose ether distearate, Ceteth-10, Polysorbate 80, cetyl phosphate, potassium
   cetyl phosphate, diethanolamine cetyl phosphate, Polysorbate 60, glyceryl stearate, PEG-100
   stearate, polyoxyethylene 20 sorbitan trioleate (Polysorbate 85), sorbitan monolaurate,
15 polyoxyethylene 4 lauryl ether sodium stearate, polyglyceryl-4 isostearate, hexyl laurate, steareth
   20, ceteareth-20, PPG-2 methyl glucose ether distearate, ceteth-10, diethanolamine cetyl phosphate,
   glyceryl stearate, PEG-100 stearate, and mixtures thereof.
   Matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors (MMPi)
20 The term "matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor" relates to all molecule and/or plant or bacterial
   extracts having an inhibitory activity on at least one of the matrix metalloproteinases expressed or
   synthetized by or in the skin. The family of the matrix metalloproteinases is formed of several well
   defined groups on the basis of their resemblance regarding structure and substrate specificity
   (Woessner J. F., Faseb Journal, vol. 5,1991, 2145). Among these groups, there are collagenases
25 able to degrade fibrillar collagens (MMP-1 or interstitial collagenase, MMP-8 or neutrophil
   collagenase, MMP- 13 or collagenase 3, MMP-18 or collagenase 4), gelatinases degrading type IV
   collagen or other denatured collagen form (MMP-2 or A gelatinase (72 kDa), MMP-9 or B
   gelatinase (92 kDa)), stromelysins (MMP-3 or stromelysin 1, MMP- 10 or stromelysin 2, MMP-11
   or stromelysin 3) whose broad spectrum of activity targets proteins of the extracellular matrix such
30 as glycoproteins (fibronectin, laminin), proteoglycanes etc., matrilysin (MMP-7), metalloelastase
   (MMP- 12) or metalloproteinases (MMP- 14, MMP- 15, MMP- 16 and MMP- 17).
   Metalloproteinases (MMPs) are proteases that use a metal, (mostly zinc) coordinated to 3 cystein
   residues and to a methionine in their active site , that degrade macromolecular components of the
   extracellular matrix and of basal layers at neutral pH (collagen, elastin, etc ...). This group of
35 enzymes is inactivated by metal chelators. The principal activity regulators of MMPs are the tissue
   inhibitors of metalloproteinases or TIMPs such TIMP-I, TIMP-2, TIMP-3 and TIMP-4 (Woessner
   J. F., Faseb Journal, 1991). Furthermore, the MMPs expression is also regulated by growth factors,
                                                        8

   cytokins, oncogens products (ras, jun), or also matrix constituents.
   The term "matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors " according to the present invention means all
   molecules able to reduce the MMPs activity regarding the gene expression (transcription and
   translation) or regarding the activation of the zymogen form of MMPs, or else regarding the local
 5 control of active forms. Furthermore, the metalloproteinase inhibitors according to the present
   invention can also be MMP-1 inhibitors of natural or synthetic origin. The terms "natural origin" or
   "synthetic origin" mean both a metalloproteinase inhibitor at a pure state or in solution at different
   concentrations, but natural origin termed inhibitors are obtained by different extraction methods
   from a natural element (for example lycopene from a tomato) whereas the inhibitors of synthetic
10 origin are all obtained via chemical synthesis
   Preferred MMPi are selected from the group consisting of retinoid, N-acetyl cysteine, glutathione,
   2-furildioxime, vitamin C, flavones, isoflavones, hydrolysed rice protein, alfalfa extract, white
   lupin, zizyphus jujube extract, dihydroxy methyl chromone, kudzu extract, vitis vinifera extract,
15 Oenothera biennis extract Anogeissus leiocarpus extract and mixtures thereof.
   Preferably said MMPi comprises at least alfalfa extract. Preferably said MMPi comprises alfalfa
   extract and hydrolysed rice protein and/or vitamin C and/or mixtures thereof.
20 MMPi are preferably present at a level of from 0.01% to 10%, more preferably 0.1% to 5% and
   most preferably from 1% to 2.5% by weight of the emulsion.
   Skin Conditioning Agent
   The emulsion of the present invention may optionally comprise a skin conditioning agent. Said
25 skin conditioning agents may preferably be selected from the group consisting of humectants,
   emollients, moisturisers, or mixtures thereof. The skin conditioning agent is preferably present at a
   level of from 0.01% to 20%, more preferably from 0.1% to 10%, most preferably from 0.5% to 7%
   by weight of the emulsion.
30 Preferred skin conditioning agents are selected from the group consisting of guanidine, urea,
   glycolic acid and glycolate salts, salicylic acid, lactic acid and lactate salts, aloe vera, shea butter,
   polyhydroxy alcohols, such as sorbitol, mannitol, xylitol, erythritol, glycerol, hexanetriol,
   butanitriol, (di) propylene glycol, butylene glycol, hexylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, sugars
   (e.g. fructose, glucose, xylose, honey, mannose, xylose), gluconodeltalactone, and starches and
35 their derivatives, pyrrolidone, carboxylic acid, hyaluronic acid and salts thereof, lactamide
   monoethanolamine, acetamide monoethanolamine, panthenol, allantoin and mixtures thereof.
                                                        9

   More preferably said skin conditioning agent is selected from the group consisting of glycerine,
   arabinoglactan, butylene glycol, hyaluronic acid, shea butter, propylene glycol, ethylhexyl glycerin
   and hyaluronate.
 5 Peptides
   An optional although preferred component of the present emulsion is a peptide, more preferably
   more than one type of peptide. Peptides are defined as compounds comprising an uninterrupted
   sequence of amino acids. Peptides are preferably selected from the group consisting of dipeptides,
   tripeptides, tetrapeptides, pentapeptides and mixtures thereof. By dipeptide, it is meant a
10 compound comprisin an uninterrupted sequence of two amino acids. By tripeptides, it is meant
   compound comprising an uninterrupted sequence of three amino acids. By tetrapeptides, it is
   meant a compound comprising an uninterrupted sequence of four amino acids. By pentapeptide it
   is meant a compound comprising an uninterrupted sequence of five amino acids. Amino acids, as
   employed herein, include and encompass all of the naturally occurring amino acids, either in D or L
15 configuration. Amino acids are commonly indicated with reference to the conventional three letter
   code and the sequence is read from left to right
   Dipeptide
   Peptides are defined as compounds comprising an uninterrupted sequence of amino acids. A
20 dipeptide comprises an uninterrupted sequence of two amino acids. Amino acids, as employed
   herein, include and encompass all of the naturally occurring amino acids, either in D or L
   configuration. Amino acids are commonly indicated with reference to the conventional three letter
   code and the sequence is read from left to right. The emulsions of the present invention comprise a
   dipeptide selected from the group consisting of acetyl dipeptide 1 cetyl ester, acetyl dipeptide 3
25 aminohexanoate, azelaoyl bisdipeptide 10, coumaroyl dipeptide 3, dicetyl dipeptide 9, dipeptide
   diamino butyroyl benzylamide diacetate, dipeptide 1, dipeptide 10, dipeptide 11, dipeptide 12,
   dipeptide 15, dipeptide 16, dipeptide 17, dipeptide 18, dipeptide 19, dipeptide 2, dipeptide 20,
   dipeptide 3, dipeptide 4, dipeptide 5, dipeptide 6, dipeptide 7, dipeptide 8, dipeptide 8 HCL,
   dipeptide 9, hexanoyl dipeptide 3 norleucine acetate, methyl undecylenoyl dipeptide 16, nicotinoyl
30 dipeptide 22, nicotinoyl dipeptide 23, nicotinoyl dipeptide 24, nicotinoyl dipeptide 26, oleoyl
   dipeptide 15, palmitoyl dipeptide 10, palmitoyl dipeptide 13, palmitoyl dipeptide 17, palmitoyl
   dipeptide 5 diaminobutyroyl hydroxythreonine, palmitoyl dipeptide 5 diaminohydroxybutyrate,
   palmitoyl dipeptide 7 and mixtures thereof.
35 More preferably, the emulsions of the present invention comprise a dipeptide wherein said amino
   acid sequences of said dipeptide are selected from the group consisting of Tyr-Arg, Tyr-Val, Ala
   Glu, Val-Trp, Asn-Phe, Asp-Phe and mixtures thereof. More preferably said dipeptide is selected
                                                      10

   from the group consisting of Trp-Val (tryptophan-valine), Ala-Glu (alanine-glutamine), Tyr-Arg
   peptide (tyrosine-argenine) and mixtures thereof. Most preferably said dipeptide is N-Acetyl Tyr
   Arg -1 cetyl ester.
 5 Dipeptides are preferably incorporated into the emulsion of the present invention at a level of from
   0.1 to 50000ppm, more preferably from 1 to 5000 ppm, most preferably from 10 to 500ppm.
   Tripeptides:
   The emulsions of the present invention preferably comprise a tripeptide. Said tripeptide may be
10 naturally occurring or of synthetic origin. Suitable tripeptides include tripeptide 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7,
   8, 9, 10,11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28 ,29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34,
   35, 36 ,37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, derivatives thereof and mixtures thereof.
   Particularly preferred tripeptides comprise one or more His-based tripeptides. However another
15 suitable tripeptide may be Arg-Lys-Arg. Particularly preferred tripeptides are based on the
   structure Gly-His-Lys and its analogs and derivatives thereof. These are collectively known herein
   as GHK-tripeptides. Indeed, the preferred tripeptide in accordance with this aspect of the invention
   has this exact sequence of amino acids. Analogs of the preferred tripeptide useful herein include
   those in which one or more of the three amino acids are reorganized or rearranged within the
20 sequence (e.g., Gly-Lys-His) and/or where no more than two amino acids are substituted (e.g., His
   Ala-Orn). However, most preferably, amino acids substituted for Gly include an aliphatic side
   chain such as, without limitation, beta-Ala, Ala, Val, Leu, Pro, Sarcosine (Sar) and Ile. Most
   preferred are Ala, Leu and Ile. The most preferable amino acid substituted for Lys or His include
   those having a side chain that includes, predominantly, a charged nitrogen at a pH of 6, such as,
25 without limitation, Pro, Lys, Arg, His, Desmosine and Isodesmosine. Most preferably, Lys is
   replaced with Orn, Arg, or Citrulline.
   Derivatives are also considered to be encompassed by the term GHK-tripeptides in accordance with
   the present invention, (and therefore also the more generic term tripeptides). Derivatives of GHK
30 tripeptides in accordance with the present invention include derivatives of the substituted and
   rearranged tripeptides described herein. These derivatives include, inter alia, acyl-derivatives,
   which are tripeptides substituted with one or more straight-chain or branched-chain, long or short
   chain, saturated or unsaturated, substituted with a hydroxy, amino, acyl amino, sulfate or sulfide
   group, or unsubstituted, which can be derived from acetic acid, capric acid, lauric acid, myristic
35 acid, octanoic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, behenic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, lipoic
   acid, oleic acid, isostearic acid, elaidoic acid, 2-ethylhexaneic acid, coconut oil fatty acid, tallow
   fatty acid, hardened tallow fatty acid, palm kernel oil fatty acid, lanolin fatty acid and the like.
                                                        11

   Preferable examples of the acyl group include an acetyl group, a palmitoyl group, an elaidoyl
   group, a myristyl group, a biotinyl group and an octanoyl group. These may be substituted or
   unsubstituted. When substituted, they are preferably substituted with hydroxyl or sulphur
   compriseing groups such as, without limitation SQ 3 H, SH or S-S.
 5
   His-based tripeptides include at least one Histadine amine acid. The other two amino acids in the
   sequence may be the same or different. Thus, contemplated are, without limitation, His-Xaa-Xaa,
   His-Xaa-Xbb, His-Xbb-Xaa, Xbb-His-Xbb, Xbb-His-Xaa, Xaa-His-Xbb, Xaa-Xaa-His, Xaa-Xbb
   His, Xbb-Xaa-His and Xbb-Xbb-His, where Xaa and Xbb are two different amino acids, although
10 either can be His. Preferably, at least one of the other amino acids is Gly, beta-Ala, Ala, Val, Leu,
   Pro, Sarcosine (Sar) or Ile. Preferably, at least one of the other amino acids is Pro, Lys, Arg, His,
   Desmosine and Isodesmosine. Most preferably, Lys is replaced with Orn, Arg, or Citrulline.
   Derivatives are also considered to be encompassed by the term His-based tripeptides in accordance
   with the present invention, (and therefore also the more generic term tripeptides). These derivatives
15 include, inter alia, acyl-derivatives, which are tripeptides substituted with one or more straight
   chain or branched-chain, long or short chain, saturated or unsaturated substituted or unsubstituted
   acyl group(s) having from 1 to 29 carbon atoms. The acyl groups which can be used are the same
   as those described for the GHK-tripeptides.
20 Particularly preferred embodiments of tripeptides in accordance with the present invention include
   N-Acyl-Gly-His-Lys and most preferably, N-Palmitoyl-Gly-His-Lys. Preferred commercially
   available tripeptide and tripeptide derivative comprising compositions include Biopeptide-CL
   from SEDERMA, Maxilip(R) from SEDERMA, Biobustyl(R) from SEDERMA.
   The tripeptides of the present invention are preferably used in amounts that can be as little as
25 0. l0ppm to 10,000ppm, preferably between 0.50ppm to 5,000ppm, more preferably from lppm to
   1000ppm, and most preferably from lppm to 500ppm. These are again based on a % w/w basis.
   Thus l00,000ppm is 10% by weight of the emulsion.
   Tetrapeptides:
30 The emulsions of the present invention preferably comprise a tetrapeptide. These may be one or
   more rigin-based tetrapeptides, one or more ALAMCAT-tetrapeptides or mixtures thereof. These
   tetrapeptides may be naturally occurring or of synthetic origin. Suitable tetrapeptides for use in the
   present composition include those selected from the group consisting of tetrapeptide 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,
   7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19 ,20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25,26 , 27, 28, 29, 30, 34, 35,
35 derivatives thereof and mixtures thereof.
                                                        12

   Rigin-based tetrapeptides in accordance with the present invention are based on the structure Gly
   Gln-Pro-Arg (Rigin) and include its analogs and derivatives thereof. Rigin is a preferred
   tetrapeptide. Analogs of the tetrapeptide rigin useful in accordance with the present invention
   include those in which one or more of the four amino acids are reorganized or rearranged within
 5 the sequence and/or where no more than two of the amino acids are substituted (e.g., Ala-Gln-Thr
   Arg. More preferably, at least one of the amino acids within the sequence is Pro or Arg and most
   preferably the tetrapeptide includes both Pro and Arg although their order and position may vary.
   The amino acid substitutions can be from amongst any amino acid as defined herein. Particularly
   preferred rigin-based tetrapeptides include Xaa-Xbb-Arg-Xcc, Xaa-Xbb-Xcc-Pro, Xaa-Xbb-Pro
10 Arg, wherein Xaa-Xbb-Pro-Xcc, Xaa-Xbb-Xcc-Arg, Xaa, Xbb and Xcc may be the same or
   different and selected from the following Xaa is Gly or the amino acids that may be substituted
   therefore, Xbb is Gin or the amino acids that may be substituted therefore and Xcc may be Pro or
   Arg or the amino acids substituted therefore. The most preferable amino acids substituted for Gly
   include an aliphatic side chain such as, without limitation, beta-Ala, Ala, Val, Leu, Pro, Sarcosine
15 (Sar) and Ile. The most preferable amino acids substituted for Gln include a side chain that includes
   an amine group that is predominantly uncharged at neutral pH (pH 6-7) such as, without limitation,
   Asn, Lys, Orn, 5-hydroxyproline, Citrulline and Canavanine. When Arg is substituted, it is
   preferably replaced with an amino acid having a side chain that includes, predominantly, a charged
   nitrogen at a pH of 6, such as, without limitation, Pro, Lys, His, Desmosine and Isodesmosine.
20
   Derivatives are also considered to be encompassed by the term rigin-base tetrapeptides in
   accordance with the present invention, (and therefore also the more generic term tetrapeptides).
   Derivatives include derivatives of the substituted and rearranged rigin-based tetrapeptides
   described herein. These derivatives include, inter alia, acyl-derivatives, which are tetrapeptides
25 substituted with one or more straight-chain or branched-chain, long or short chain, saturated or
   unsaturated, substituted with a hydroxy, amino, amino acyl, sulfate or sulfide group or
   unsubstituted having from 1 to 29 carbon atoms. N-acyl-derivatives include those acyl groups
   which can be derived from acetic acid, capric acid, lauric acid, myristic acid, octanoic acid,
   palmitic acid, stearic acid, behenic acid, linoleic acid, linolenic acid, lipoic acid, oleic acid,
30 isostearic acid, elaidoic acid, 2-ethylhexaneic acid, coconut oil fatty acid, tallow fatty acid,
   hardened tallow fatty acid, palm kernel oil fatty acid, lanolin fatty acid and the like. Preferable
   examples of the acyl group include an acetyl group, a palmitoyl group, an elaidoyl group, a
   myristyl group, a biotinyl group and an octanoyl group. These may be substituted or unsubstituted.
   When substituted, they are preferably substituted with hydroxyl or sulphur comprising groups such
35 as, without limitation SO3H, SH or S-S.
                                                       13

   ALAMCAT tetrapeptides are tetrapeptides which include at least one amino acid including an
   aliphatic group comprising side chain. These amino acids include, without limitation, Gly, beta
   Ala, Ala, Val, Leu, Sarcosine (Sar) and Ile. These tetrapeptides also include at least one amino acid
   including at least one NH2 comprising side chain. These amino acids include a side chain that has
 5 an amine group that is predominantly uncharged at neutral pH (pH 6-7) such as, without limitation,
   GIn, Asn, Lys, Orn, 5-hydroxyproline, Citrulline and Canavanine. The ALAMCAT-tetrapeptides
   also include at least one amino acid having at least one side chain including at least one cationic
   amine (predominant species is charged such as NH3+ , NH2+ , etc.-basic amino acids which are
   positively charged at pH 6.0). These amino acids include, without limitation, Pro, Arg, Lys, His,
10 Desmosine and Isodesmosine. The remaining amino acid can be any amino acid, but is preferably
   one comprising an alphatic group, pendant amino group or pendant cationic group. Derivatives are
   also considered to be encompassed by the term ALAMCAT-tetrapeptides in accordance with the
   present invention, (and therefore also the more generic term tetrapeptides). These derivatives
   include, inter alia, acyl-derivatives, which are tetrapeptides substituted with one or more straight
15 chain or branched-chain, substituted or unsubstituted long or short chain, saturated or unsaturated
   acyl group(s) having from 1 to 29 carbon atoms. The acyl groups which can be used are the same
   as those described for the rigin-based tetrapeptides.
   Preferred embodiments include Peptide E, arg-ser-arg-lys, N-acyl-Gly-Gln-Pro-Arg peptides, most
20 preferably N-palmitoyl-Gly-Gln-Pro-Arg.
   Preferred commercially available sources of tetrapeptides include RIGIN, EYELISS, Haloxyl, and
   MATRIXYL 3000, which comprise between 50 to 500 ppm of palmitoyl-Gly-Gln-Pro-Arg, and
   other ingredients, such as peptides, chalcones and an excipient, commercially available from
25 SEDERMA, France. Tego Pep 417 available from Evonik.These may be used to produce
   compositions of the present invention by adding thereto at least one tripeptide as described herein.
   The tetrapeptides of the present invention are preferably used in amounts from 0.1 ppm (0.00001%
   w/w also referred to herein as "weight percent", "weight    %"  or simply by weight) to 10,000 ppm
30 (0.5% w/w), preferably from 0.5 ppm to 1000 ppm (0.05% w/w), and most preferably from 1 ppm
   to 500ppm by weight of the composition.
   The combination of tripeptides and tetrapeptides, is particularly preferred. The preferred ratio of
   tetrapeptide to tripeptide, or indeed the ratio of molecules having four amino acids to those having
35 three amino acids can range from 100:1 to 1:100; more preferably from 50:1 to 1:50, even more
   preferably from 30:1 to 1:30 and even more preferably between 10:1 to 1:10. Most preferably,
   the ratio of tetrapeptide to tripeptide ranges from between 3:1 to 1:3. These ratios are on a weight
                                                       14

   basis (% w/w-e.g. mg of pure peptide per Kilogram in the final formulation). In a particularly
   preferred embodiment, the amount of tripeptide used is greater than the amount of tetrapeptide used
   when considered in terms of their amounts in parts per million, again based on overall weight of the
   composition. In a particularly preferred embodiment, the emulsion of the present invention
 5 comprise a tetrapeptide of the sequence Gly-Gln-Pro-Arg, its analogs and derivatives in
   combination with one or more tripeptide of the sequences Gly-His-Lys, its analogs and derivatives.
   Pentapeptides
   The compositions of the present invention may optionally comprise a pentapeptide, derivatives of
10 pentapeptides, and mixtures thereof. As used herein, "pentapeptides" refers to both the naturally
   occurring pentapeptides and synthesized pentapeptides. Also useful herein are naturally occurring
   and commercially available compositions that comprise pentapeptides. Suitable pentapeptides are
   those selected from the group consisting of pentapeptidel, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16,
   17, 18, 19, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 36, 38, 39, derivatives thereof and
15 mixtures thereof.
   Suitable pentapeptides for use herein are the pentapeptide, lys-thr-thr-lys-ser, Arg-asp-lys-tyr-val
   (pentapeptide -1) and derivatives thereof. A preferred commercially available pentapeptide
   derivative-comprising composition is Matrixyl which comprises 100 ppm of palmitoyl-lys-thr-thr
20 lys-ser and is commercially available from Sederma, France.
   The pentapeptides and/or pentapeptide derivatives where present are preferably included in
   emulsion at amounts of from 0.01% to 20%, more preferably from 0.05% to 15%, and even more
   preferably from 0.1% to 10%, by weight of the emulsion composition.
25
   Antioxidant Agent
   The emulsion of the present invention may optionally comprise an antioxidant agent. Suitable
   antioxidant agents may include: a) ascorbic acid its salts, esters, glucosides and glucosamines,
   particularly sodium ascorbyl phosphate, magnesium ascorbyl phosphate and ascorbyl palmitate b)
30 vitamin E (tocopherol) and its esters, particularly tocopheryl acetate, as well as Dimethyl methoxy
   chromanol which is a synthetic analogue of gamma tocopherol, available from Lipotec S.A.
   polygon Industrial Camri Ral, under the tradename Lipochroman-6 c) herbal extracts, particularly
   gingko biloba, such as that available under the trade name "Gingko Biloba Leaf Powder" from
   Univar PLC, morus alba, such as that available under the trade name "Mulberry Concentrate" from
35 Solabia, origanum vulgare, such as that available under the trade name "Pronalen Origanum HSC"
   from S Black Ltd, panax ginseng, such as that available under the trade name "Panax ginseng 1.1
   extract 4294"from S Black Ltd or "Phytexcell Panax ginseng" available from Croda Chemicals Ltd,
                                                       15

   birch extract such as those available from Cosmetochem (U. K.) Ltd under the trade names "Super
   Herbasol Extract Birch" and "HP Herbasol Betula" and those available from Blagden Chemicals
   under the tradenames "Phytelene of Birch" and "Aqueous Spray Dried Birch", camellia sinensis,
   such as that available under the trade name "Herbal Extract Green Tea 75% Solids" from Nichimen
 5 Europe, rosmarrinus officinalis, such as that available under the trade name "Pronalen Rosemary"
   from S. Black, Acerola cherry powder, such as that available as Acerola PE from Gee Lawson,
   Emlica extract sold under the tradename Emblica m by Merck Speciality chemicals, and Grape
   Seed oil, such as that available from Chesham Chemicals Limited.
10 The source of the antioxidant activity in some of these agents is often not fully understood; for
   example, it is believed that the antioxidant activity of ginkgo biloba extract arises from the
   presence of flavonglycocides and/or terpenelactones which may be free-radical inhibitors. Birch
   extract may be produced by extracting the dried leaves of Betula alba with a suitable solvent. It is
   believed that the anti-free radical activity of birch extract arises due to the presence of flavonoids
15 such as hyperosid, quencitrosid and/or myricetol-3digalactosid which may be free-radical
   inhibitors. Such products are then often sold as mixtures or solutions.
   Thus the antioxidant agent may consist of a number of active ingredients which are free-radical
   inhibitors or may also comprise suitable diluents and/or carriers (such as when the anti-free radical
20 agent is some of the products mentioned herein). Thus there may be some confusion as to the actual
   level of agent within a commercially available product. Accordingly, the amounts of antioxidant
   agents used in the present invention are expressed as dry weights, as understood by a man skilled in
   the art. The total amount of antioxidant agents present in the composition may range from 0.005%
   to 10% by weight, preferably 0.5% to 5%, most preferably 1% to 3.5% by weight of the
25 composition.
   Particularly preferred synergistic combinations of antioxidant agents suitable for inclusion in a skin
   care composition of the present invention are: panax ginseng, morus alba and magnesium ascorbyl
   phosphate; panax ginseng, morus alba and sodium ascorbyl phosphate; panax ginseng, morus alba
30 and rosmarinus officinalis; panax ginseng, morus alba and origanum vulgare.
   In these preferred combinations (a) the panax ginseng is preferably present in an amount of 0.005%
   to 0.1%, more preferably 0.01% to 0.05% by weight of the composition; (b) the morus alba is
   preferably present in an amount of 0.0005% to 0.01%, more preferably 0.001% to 0.005% by
35 weight of the composition; (c) the sodium or magnesium ascorbyl phosphate is preferably present
   in an amount of 0.05% to 2.5%, preferably 0.1% to 2%, most preferably 0.15% to 1.5% by weight
                                                       16

   of the composition and (d) the rosmarinus officinalis or origanum vulgare is preferably present in
   an amount of 0.01% to 0.5%, more preferably 0.05% to 0.2% by weight of the composition.
   Vitamins
 5 The compositions of the present invention may comprise one or more vitamins. The emulsion
   compositions may comprise ascorbates, for example vitamin C, vitamin C derivatives, ascorbic
   acid, ascorbyl glucoside, ascorbyl palmitate, magnesium ascorbyl phosphate, sodium ascorbyl
   phosphate. The emulsion may comprise vitamin B, vitamin B derivatives, vitamin BI to vitamin
   B12 and theirs derivatives, vitamin K, vitamin K derivatives, vitamin H vitamin D, vitamin D
10 derivatives, vitamin E, vitamin E derivatives such as tocopherol and tocopheryl acetate, and
   provitamins thereof, such as panthenol and mixtures thereof. The vitamin compounds may be
   included as the substantially pure material, or as an extract obtained by suitable physical and/or
   chemical isolation from natural (e. g., plant) sources. In one embodiment, when vitamin
   compounds are present in the compositions of the instant invention, the emulsion compositions
15 comprise from about 0.0001% to 50%, more preferably from 0.001% to 10%, still more preferably
   from 0.01% to 8%, and still more preferably from 0.1% to 5%, by weight of the composition, of the
   vitamin compound.
   Salicylic Acid Compound
20 The emulsion compositions of the present invention may comprise a salicylic acid compound, its
   esters, its salts, or combinations thereof. In one embodiment of the compositions of the present
   invention, the salicylic acid compound preferably comprises from 0.0001% to 25%, more
   preferably from 0.001% to 15%, even more preferably from 0.01% to 10%, still more preferably
   from 0.1% to 5%, and even more preferably from 0.01% to 2%, by weight of the composition, of
25 salicylic acid.
   Sunscreen
   The emulsions of the present invention may optionally comprise a sunscreen component. The
   sunscreen may comprise organic or inorganic sun filters or a combination of the two. Suitable
30 inorganic sunfilters include those selected from the group consisting of microfine titanium dioxide,
   microfine zinc oxide, boron nitride and mixtures therof.
   Suitable organic sunscreens include those selected from the group consisting of : a) p
   aminobenzoic acids, their esters and derivatives (for example, 2ethylhexyl p
   dimethylaminobenzoate), b) methoxycinnamate esters (for example, 2-ethylhexyl p
35 methoxycinnamate, 2-ethoxyethyl p-methoxycinnamate or a, p-di- (p-methoxycinnamoyl)-a'
   (2ethylhexanoyl)-glycerin, c) benzophenones (for example oxybenzone), d) dibenzoylmethanes
   such as 4- (tert-butyl)-4'-methoxydibenzoylmethane, e) 2-phenylbenzimidazole-5 sulfonic acid and
                                                       17

   its salts, f) alkyl-ss, ss-diphenylacrylates for example alkyl a-cyano-ss, ss-diphenylacrylates such as
   octocrylene, g) triazines such as 2,4,6-trianilino- (p-carbo-2-ethyl-hexyl-1-oxi)-1, 3,5 triazine, h)
   camphor derivatives such as methylbenzylidene camphor and i) mixtures thereof. Other preferred
   sunscreen ingredients include those selected from the group consisting of homosalate, Ethylhexyl
 5 salicylate, Diethylhexylbutamido triazone, Bis-ethylhexyloxyphenol methoxyphenyl triazine,
   Diethylamino hydroxybenzoyl hexyl benzoate, Butyl methoxydibenzoylmethane, Methylene his
   benzotriazoyl tetramethylbutylphenol, Polysilicone- 15 and mixtures thereof. A sunscreening agent
   is optionally present in an amount from 0.1 to 10% by weight of the composition.
10 Other Optional Ingredients
   The emulsions of the present invention may also optionally comprise one or more of the following
   optional ingredients. Preservatives may be added to the emulsion such as 2-bromo2-nitropropane
   1,3-diol (bronopol, which is available commercially under the trade name Myacide RTM), benzyl
   alcohol, diazolidinyl urea, imidazolidinyl urea, methyl paraben, phenoxy ethanol, ethyl paraben,
15 propyl paraben, sodium methyl paraben, sodium dehydroacetate, polyhexamethylenebiguanide
   hydrochloride, isothiazolone and sodium propyl paraben, suitably in an amount of from 0.0 1% to
   10% by weight of the emulsion.
   Thickeners, viscosity modifying agents and/or gelling agents may be added to the emulsion
20 composition, such as acrylic acid polymers e. g. available commercially under the trade name
   Carbopol or Ultrez (Lubrizol) or modified cellloses e. g. hydroxyethylcellulose available
   commercially under the trade name Natrosol (Hercules) or hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose, amine
   oxides, block polymers of ethylene oxide and propylene oxide (for example, those available from
   BASF Wyandotte under the trade name"Pluronic"RTM), PVM, MA, or a decadiene crosspolymer
25 (available under the trade name Stabilez 60), ethoxylated fatty alcohols, salt (magnesium chloride,
   sodium chloride), Aristoflex AVC (Clariant), phthalic acid amide, xanthan gum, sodium
   polyacrylate, polyvinyl alcools, fatty alcools and alkyl galactmanans available under the trade name
   N-Hance from Hercules, suitably in an amount of from 0.5% to 10% by weight of the
   composition.
30
   Sequestering agents may be added to the emulsion composition, such as ethylenediamine
   tetraacetic acid and salts thereof, suitably in an amount of from 0.005% to 0.5% by weight of the
   composition.
35 The emulsion composition may also include waxes such as cocoa butter suitably in an amount of
   from 1% to 99% by weight of the composition.
                                                       18

   The emulsion composition may also comprise suitable, cosmetically acceptable diluents, carriers
   and/or propellants such as dimethyl ether.
   The emulsion composition may also include pearlising agents such as stearic monoethanolamide
 5 and/or mica, suitably in an amount of from 0.01% to 10% by weight of the composition.
   Perfumes may be added suitably in an amount of from 0.01% to 2% by weight of the composition,
   as may water soluble dyes such as tartrazine, suitably in an amount of from a trace amount (such
   as 1 x 10-5 %) to 0.1 % by weight of the composition.
10
   The emulsion composition may also include pH adjusting agents such as sodium hydroxide,
   aminomethyl propanol, triethanolamine, suitably in an amount of from 0.01 %to 10% by weight of
   the composition. The composition may be buffered by means well known in the art, for example
   by use of buffer systems comprising succinic acid, citric acid, lactic acid, and acceptable salts
15 thereof, phosphoric acid, mono-or disodium phosphate and sodium carbonate. Suitably, the
   composition may have a pH between 3 and 10, preferably between 4 and 8.
   Examples
   The present represent non-binding example of water-in-oil emulsions of the present invention.
20 Water-in-oil emulsion 1
   Dimethicone                                         23.744
   Aqua                                                  35
   Dimethicone crosspolymer and                          25
   Dimethicone
   Glycerin                                               5
   PEG/PPG-18/18 dimethicone                              3
   Cetyl PEG/PPG-10/1 dimethicone                         2
   Magnesium sulfate                                    0.75
   Phenoxyethanol                                        0.7
   Methylparaben                                         0.2
   Ethylparaben                                          0.1
   Aceyl dipeptide-1 cetyl ester                        0.005
   Palmitoyl oligopeptide and Palmitoyl                 0.001
   tetrapeptide-7
   Sodium hyaluronate                                    0.5
                                                     19

   Hydrolyzed rice protein                                   2
   Alfalfa extract                                           2
   Method of manufacture
   1.       In the main vessel combine Dimethicone, Dimethicone crosspolymer, PEG/PPG-18/18
            dimethicone and Cetyl PEG/PPG-10/1 dimethicone to prepare the oil phase.
 5 2.       Separately weigh out water, magnesium sulphate, glycerin, Aceyl dipeptide-1 cetyl ester,
            Palmitoyl oligopeptide and Palmitoyl tetrapeptide-7, Sodium hyaluronate, Hydrolyzed rice
            protein and Alfalfa extract, stir until solids are dissolved, preparing the water phase.
   3.       Separately mix together phenoxyethanol, methylparaben and ethylparaben. Heat until
            dissolved and add to the water phase (of step 2)
10 4.       Add the water phase to the oil phase slowly with constant stirring at high speed (creating a
            vortex). Continue stirring for 5 minutes.
   5.       Homogenise the product for 5 minutes at 3500 rpm using a Silverson mixer or equivalent.
   Water-in-oil emulsion 2
   Dimethicone                                            38.744
   Aqua                                                     20
   Dimethicone crosspolymer and                             25
   Dimethicone
   Glycerin                                                   5
   PEG/PPG-18/18 dimethicone                                  3
   Cetyl PEG/PPG-10/1 dimethicone                            2
   Magnesium sulfate                                       0.75
   Phenoxyethanol                                           0.7
   Methylparaben                                            0.2
   Ethylparaben                                             0.1
   Aceyl dipeptide- 1 cetyl ester                          0.005
   Palmitoyl oligopeptide and Palmitoyl                    0.001
   tetrapeptide-7
   Sodium hyaluronate                                       0.5
   Hydrolyzed rice protein                                   2
   Alfalfa extract                                           2
15
   Method of manufacture
                                                        20

   1.       In the main vessel add Dimethicone, Dimethicone crosspolymer, PEG/PPG- 18/18
            dimethicone and Cetyl PEG/PPG-10/1 dimethicone to make the oil phase.
   2.       Separately weigh out water, magnesium sulphate, glycerin, Aceyl dipeptide-1 cetyl ester,
            Palmitoyl oligopeptide and Palmitoyl tetrapeptide-7, Sodium hyaluronate, Hydrolyzed rice
 5          protein and Alfalfa extract, stir until solids are dissolved to make the water phase.
   3.       Separately mix together phenoxyethanol, methylparaben and ethylparaben. Heat until
            dissolved and add to the water phase (of step 2)
   4.       Add the water phase to the oil phase slowly with constant stirring at high speed (creating a
            vortex). Continue stirring for 5 minutes.
10 5.       Homogenise the product for 5 minutes at 3500 rpm using a Silverson mixer or equivalent.
   Water-in-oil emulsion 3
   Dimethicone                                             8.744
   Aqua                                                     50
   Dimethicone crosspolymer and                             25
   Dimethicone
   Glycerin                                                   5
   PEG/PPG-18/18 dimethicone                                  3
   Cetyl PEG/PPG-10/1 dimethicone                            2
   Magnesium sulfate                                       0.75
   Phenoxyethanol                                           0.7
   Methylparaben                                            0.2
   Ethylparaben                                             0.1
   Aceyl dipeptide- 1 cetyl ester                          0.005
   Palmitoyl oligopeptide and Palmitoyl                    0.001
   tetrapeptide-7
   Sodium hyaluronate                                       0.5
   Hydrolyzed rice protein                                   2
   Alfalfa extract                                           2
   Method of manufacture
15 1.       In the main vessel add Dimethicone, Dimethicone crosspolymer, PEG/PPG-18/18
            dimethicone and Cetyl PEG/PPG-10/1 dimethicone to make the oil phase.
   2.       Separately weigh out water, magnesium sulphate, glycerin, Aceyl dipeptide-1 cetyl ester,
            Palmitoyl oligopeptide and Palmitoyl tetrapeptide-7, Sodium hyaluronate, Hydrolyzed rice
            protein and Alfalfa extract, stir until solids are dissolved and the water phase is prepared.
                                                        21

   3.       Separately mix together phenoxyethanol, methylparaben and ethylparaben. Heat until
            dissolved and add to the water phase (of step 2)
   4.       Add the water phase to the oil phase slowly with constant stirring at high speed (creating a
            vortex) Continue stirring for 5 minutes.
 5 5.       Homogenise the product for 5 minutes at 3500 rpm using a Silverson mixer or equivalent.
   Water-in-oil emulsion 4
   Dimethicone                                            23.744
   Aqua                                                     33.5
   Dimethicone crosspolymer and                              25
   Dimethicone
   Glycerin                                                   5
   PEG/PPG-18/18 dimethicone                                  3
   Cetyl PEG/PPG-10/1 dimethicone                             2
   Magnesium sulphate                                      0.75
   Phenoxyethanol                                           0.7
   Methylparaben                                            0.2
   Ethylparaben                                             0.1
   Aceyl dipeptide- 1 cetyl ester                          0.005
   Palmitoyl oligopeptide and Palmitoyl                    0.001
   tetrapeptide-7
   Butylene glycol                                            2
   Hydrolyzed rice protein                                    2
   Alfalfa extract                                            2
   Method of manufacture
10 1.       In the main vessel add Dimethicone, Dimethicone crosspolymer, PEG/PPG-18/18
            dimethicone and Cetyl PEG/PPG-10/1 dimethicone to make the oil phase.
   2.       Separately weigh out water, magnesium sulphate, glycerin, Aceyl dipeptide-1 cetyl ester,
            Palmitoyl oligopeptide and Palmitoyl tetrapeptide-7, Butylene glycol, Hydrolyzed rice
            protein and Alfalfa extract, stir until solids are dissolved to make the water phase.
15 3.       Separately mix together phenoxyethanol, methylparaben and ethylparaben. Heat until
            dissolved and add to the water phase (of step 2)
   4.       Add the water phase to the oil phase slowly with constant stirring at high speed (creating a
            vortex). Continue stirring for 5 minutes.
   5.       Homogenise the product for 5 minutes at 3500 rpm using a Silverson mixer or equivalent.
                                                        22

   Water-in-oil emulsion 5
   Dimethicone                                          27.744
   Aqua                                                   40
   Dimethicone crosspolymer and                           20
   Dimethicone
   Glycerin                                                5
   PEG/PPG-18/18 dimethicone                               3
   Cetyl PEG/PPG-10/1 dimethicone                          2
   Magnesium sulphate                                    0.75
   Phenoxyethanol                                         0.7
   Methylparaben                                          0.2
   Ethylparaben                                           0.1
   Aceyl dipeptide-1 cetyl ester                         0.005
   Palmitoyl oligopeptide and Palmitoyl                  0.001
   tetrapeptide-7
   Sodium hyaluronate                                     0.5
   Method of manufacture
 5 1.       In the main vessel add Dimethicone, Dimethicone crosspolymer, PEG/PPG- 18/18
            dimethicone and Cetyl PEG/PPG-10/1 dimethicone to make the oil phase.
   2.       Separately weigh out water, magnesium sulphate, glycerin, Aceyl dipeptide-1 cetyl ester,
            Palmitoyl oligopeptide and Palmitoyl tetrapeptide-7 and Sodium hyaluronate, stir until
            solids are dissolved to make the water phase.
10 3.       Separately mix together phenoxyethanol, methylparaben and ethylparaben. Heat until
            dissolved and add to the water phase ( of step 2)
   4.       Add the water phase to the oil phase slowly with constant stirring at high speed (creating a
            vortex). Continue stirring for 5 minutes.
   5.       Homogenise the product for 5 minutes at 3500 rpm using a Silverson mixer or equivalent.
15
                                                      23

Described herein are the following items I to 10:
   1. A water-in-oil emulsion comprising less than 60% water and wherein said emulsion
        comprises an oil phase and a water phase, and wherein the water phase comprises a matrix
        metalloproteinase inhibitor (MMPi) and a skin conditioning agent.
   2.   An emulsion according to the preceding item wherein the MMPi is selected from the group
        consisting of N-acetyl cysteine, glutathione, 2-furildioxime, vitamin C, flavones, isoflavones,
        hydrolysed rice protein, alfalfa extract, white lupin, zizyphus jujube extract, dihydroxy
        methyl chromone, kudzu extract, vitis vinifera extract, Oenothera biennis extract Anogeissus
        leiocarpus extract and mixtures thereof
   3.   An emulsion according to the preceding item wherein the MMPi comprises at least alfalfa
        extract, and optionally vitamin C and/or hydrolysed rice protein and/or mixtures thereof.
   4.   An emulsion according to any preceding item wherein the skin conditioning agent is selected
        from the groups consisting of guanidine, urea, glycolic acid and glycolate salts, salicylic acid,
        lactic acid and lactate salts, aloe vera, shea butter, polyhydroxy alcohols, such as sorbitol,
        mannitol, xylitol, erythritol, glycerol, hexanetriol, butanitriol, (di) propylene glycol, butylene
        glycol, hexylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, sugars (e.g. fructose, glucose, xylose, honey,
        mannose, xylose), gluconodeltalactone, and starches and their derivatives, pyrrolidone,
        carboxylic acid, hyaluronic acid and salts thereof, lactamide monoethanolamine, acetamide
        monoethanolamine, panthenol, allantoin and mixtures thereof
   5. An emulsion according to item 3 wherein the skin conditioning agent is selected from the
        group consisting of glycerine, arabinoglactan, butylene glycol, hyaluronic acid, shea butter
        and hyaluronate and mixtures thereof
   6.   An emulsion according to any preceding item wherein the water phase comprises a dipeptide
        selected from the group consisting of Tyr-Arg, Tyr-Val, Ala-Glu, Val-Trp, Asn-Phe, Asp-Phe
        and mixtures thereof.
   7.   An emulsion according to the preceding item wherein the dipepetide is present at a level of
        from 0.1 to 10000ppm, more preferably I to 1000ppm of the emulsion
   8.   An emulsion according to any preceding item further comprising a further peptide selected
        from the group consisting of tripeptide, tetrapeptide and mixtures thereof
                                                     23a

9.  An emulsion according to any preceding item wherein the oil phase comprises a silicone
    comprising compound, more preferably a silicone elastomer.
10. Use of a skin care emulsion according to any of the preceding items in the manufacture of a
    medicament for regulating the condition of mammalian skin by topical application to the skin
    of a mammal in need of treatment.
                                            23b

   Claims
       1. A water-in-oil emulsion comprising from 10% to 45% water and wherein said emulsion
          comprises an oil phase and a water phase, and wherein the water phase comprises a matrix
          metalloproteinase inhibitor (MMPi) selected from the group consisting of N-acetyl
 5        cysteine, glutathione, 2-furildioxime, vitamin C, flavones, isoflavones, hydrolysed rice
          protein, alfalfa extract, white lupin, zizyphus jujube extract, dihydroxy methyl chromone,
          kudzu extract, vitis vinifera extract, Oenothera biennis extract, Anogeissus leiocarpus
          extract and mixtures thereof, and a skin conditioning agent.
10
       2. An emulsion according to the preceding claim wherein the MMPi comprises alfalfa extract,
          and optionally hydrolysed rice protein.
       3. An emulsion according to any preceding claim wherein the skin conditioning agent is
15        selected from the groups consisting of guanidine, urea, glycolic acid and glycolate salts,
          salicylic acid, lactic acid and lactate salts, aloe vera, shea butter, polyhydroxy alcohols,
          such as sorbitol, mannitol, xylitol, erythritol, glycerol, hexanetriol, butanitriol, (di)
          propylene glycol, butylene glycol, hexylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, sugars (e.g.
          fructose, glucose, xylose, honey, mannose, xylose), gluconodeltalactone, and starches and
20        their derivatives, pyrrolidone, carboxylic acid, hyaluronic acid and salts thereof, lactamide
          monoethanolamine, acetamide monoethanolamine, panthenol, allantoin and mixtures
          thereof.
       4. An emulsion according to claim 2 wherein the skin conditioning agent is selected from the
25        group consisting of glycerine, arabinoglactan, butylene glycol, hyaluronic acid, shea butter
          and hyaluronate and mixtures thereof.
       5. An emulsion according to any preceding claim wherein the water phase comprises a
          dipeptide selected from the group consisting of Tyr-Arg, Tyr-Val, Ala-Glu, Val-Trp, Asn
30        Phe, Asp-Phe and mixtures thereof.
       6. An emulsion according to the preceding claim wherein the dipepetide is present at a level
          of from 0.1 to 10000ppm, more preferably I to 1000ppm of the emulsion
35     7. An emulsion according to any preceding claim further comprising a further peptide
          selected from the group consisting of tripeptide, tetrapeptide and mixtures thereof.
                                                       24

  8. An emulsion according to any preceding claim wherein the oil phase comprises a silicone
     comprising compound, more preferably a silicone elastomer.
  9. Use of a skin care emulsion according to any of the preceding claims in the manufacture of
5    a medicament for regulating the condition of mammalian skin by topical application to the
     skin of a mammal in need of treatment.
                                             25

