ABSTRACT
An audio-video distribution system with infra-red transmitters for control of connected
devices is described herein.     The audio-video distribution system includes a base
station 12 having inputs and outputs for connection of audio-video sources and
display screens respectively. In most embodiments, any audio-video source will be
selectable for viewing on any display screen.      Infra-red transmitters 14a,b,c,d are
provided for controlling connected source devices and connected display screens.
An application running on a mobile computer 16 can cause the infra-red transmitters
14a,b,c,d to transmit infra-red commands in response to user input. This is achieved
with very low latency by loading machine code instructions into a secondary
computer, and causing the second computer to execute those instructions in
response to user input on the mobile computer 16. The machine code instructions
can be stored on the mobile computer.
                                           16

     CI
            I
            I
   a
              I
        Eli   diWi
-a
                   C>

    AUDIO-VIDEO DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
    The present invention relates to an audio-video distribution system with the facility to
    control devices which respond to IR remote control commands.
    BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
  5 For many years, infra-red remote controls have been used to control home
    entertainment appliances such as televisions, DVD players, satellite / cable
    receivers, audio systems, and so on.
    More recently, the ubiquitous use of smartphones has meant that there is
    considerable demand for controlling these entertainment appliances using a mobile
 Lo app, rather than a special-purpose remote control. Apart from reducing the number
    of remote control devices required, control by a mobile app allows devices to be
    controlled from anywhere where the smartphone is in range of a WiFi network,
    whereas infra-red remote controls generally require line-of-sight communication.
    Control of an appliance in a different room is particularly useful in the context of
 L5 video distribution systems, where the signal from (for example) a single central DVD
    player or satellite decoder may be selectably sent to any one of multiple connected
    display screens. A user watching satellite television in one room may therefore wish
    to control a central satellite receiver which is in another part of the building.
    Some entertainment appliances are now designed to be connected to a home
 )o TCP/IP network for control with a smartphone app.           However, the provision of IR
    receivers on this type of appliance is still ubiquitous, and there is a need for a means
    of controlling an IR-controlled device connected to a video distribution system, via a
    smartphone app.
    Some systems have been made available which use a TCP/IP connected device to
25  transmit IR commands, in response to user controls in the form of a smartphone or
    tablet app. However, such systems often suffer from high latency, i.e. a time delay
    between the user selecting a function on the smartphone and the infra-red being
    transmitted to the entertainment appliance. This results in a poor user experience
    and considerable frustration. Also, existing systems are not highly integrated into
30  video distribution systems.      It is currently possible to control a video distribution
    system with a smartphone app to select which sources route to which display
                                                  1

    screens, and separately to control the sources and display screens with a
    smartphone app which sends IR commands to the sources and display screens, but
    these two functions use different devices and separate communication channels.
    It is an object of the invention to provide low-latency app control of an appliance
 5  having an infra-red receiver.
    SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
    According to the present invention, there is provided an audio-video distribution
    system for sending an audio and video signal from at least one audio-video source to
    any of a plurality of connected display screens, the system comprising:
 Lo         at least one audio-video input port for connecting an audio-video source;
            a plurality of audio-video output ports for connecting display screens;
            at least one infra-red transmitter for transmitting infra-red remote control
            commands to at least one of the audio-video source(s) or at least one of the
            display screens;
 Ls         a first computer having a network interface for connection to a packet
            switched network;
            a second computer, the infra-red transmitter(s) being connected to output
            interface(s) of the second computer, and the first computer being in
            communication with the second computer to allow the first computer to load
20          machine code instructions into the second computer and to cause the
            execution by the second computer of said machine code instructions;
            storage configured to contain a plurality of machine             code programs
            executable by the second computer, each program when executed on the
            second computer causing the or a selected one of the infra-red transmitter(s)
25          to transmit a selected infra-red remote control command; and
            a mobile computer having a network interface for connection to the same
            packet-switched network as the first computer, the mobile computer including
            application software configured to transmit a selection of one of the stored
            machine code programs via the packet-switched network to the first computer,
30          in response to user input,
                                                 2

    the first computer being adapted to receive the selection from the mobile computer,
    and to cause the execution on the second computer of the selected machine code
    program.
    The architecture of the system according to the invention allows very low-latency
  5 control, in other words a very short time delay between the user selecting a function
    on the mobile computer, and an infra-red remote control signal being transmitted by
    the IR transmitter. This is because the amount of processing required in response to
    user input is minimised. It is simply a matter of choosing the correct machine code
    program according to user input, and causing execution of that machine code
 Lo program by the second computer, which has the effect of transmitting the required IR
    command.       Where multiple IR transmitters are connected to different output
    interfaces of the second computer, the machine code program selected will specify
    not only the IR command to be transmitted, but also which one of the plurality of IR
    transmitters should transmit the command.
 L5  In one embodiment, the storage containing the machine code programs may be
    storage of the mobile computer.      In this case, the machine code program to be
    executed will be selected according to user input, and transmitted from the mobile
    computer to the first computer, over the packet switched network. The first computer
    will then load the program into the second computer and cause the second computer
 )O to execute the loaded program.        As an alternative, the storage containing the
    machine code programs may be storage of the first computer. In this case, only a
    reference or pointer to the particular selected program needs to be transmitted from
    the mobile computer to the first computer. The first computer then retrieves the
    selected program from its storage and causes execution of the selected program on
25  the second computer. Preferably, the storage is high-speed random access memory
    (primary storage) of the first computer. Preferably, on initialization / power-up of the
    first computer, all of the machine code programs are retrieved from secondary
    storage and held in RAM for high-speed selection and transfer to the second
    computer for execution, when selected by a user.
30  For each discrete control function selectable by the user in the application software
    on the mobile computer, there is a stored machine code program which is executed
    unaltered on the second processor. This results in very low-latency control from a
                                                3

    smartphone app, practically indistinguishable from direct use of the original infra-red
    remote control within line-of-sight of the device being controlled.
    In a simplest embodiment, the video distribution system has just one audio-video
    input, which is distributed to all display screens. However, most embodiments will
  5 include a plurality of audio-video sources, and will allow each of the display screens
    to be independently switched to a chosen source, that is, any source can be viewed
    on any screen. The routing of audio-visual signals from sources to display screens
    is in this case controlled by a series of switches, which in turn are connected to
    output interfaces of the second computer. User selection of which source is to be
 Lo displayed on a particular screen may then be effected by sending a stored machine
    code program (or a pointer or reference to a stored machine code program) from the
    mobile computer to the first computer, for execution on the second computer, in
    exactly the same way as the IR transmitters connected to output interfaces of the
    second computer are controlled. Preferably, machine code programs may be stored
 L5 which, when executed on the second computer, cause a combination of a switching
    operation and transmission of an IR command.            For example, a function in the
    application software on the mobile device could allow a user to press a button to
    switch a particular display to a satellite receiver source and select channel 1. When
    this function is selected, a machine code program is retrieved from storage which,
 )o when executed on the second computer, causes the audio-video signal from a
    particular audio-video source port to be routed to a particular display screen, and
    also causes an IR transmitter associated with a satellite receiver connected to the
    selected source port to transmit a command causing the satellite receiver to show
    channel 1.
25  The first computer and second computer are typically integrated into a single
    hardware base station, which also includes the input ports and output ports, and
    where provided switches to control routing of audio-video signals from input ports to
    output ports. Typically, infra-red transmitters will be provided as external devices,
    connectable by plug and socket to the base station, since the infra-red transmitters
30  need to be positioned for line-of-sight communication with controlled devices,
    whether they are audio-video source devices or display screens.
                                                 4

    The output ports may be in the form of HDBaseT outputs, for connection of display
    screens at remote locations via relatively long lengths of CAT6 twisted-pair cable.
    The HDBaseT standard allows for Ethernet to be carried over the same cable as HD
    video and audio, and so a wireless network access point may be provided adjacent
  5 the display screen, allowing the packet-switched network to be accessed wirelessly
    from the area around the display screen, without having to provide separate wireless
    network infrastructure in a large building. The HDBaseT standard also allows control
    signals for an infra-red transmitter to be carried over the same cable, and so an IR
    transmitter, in particular one associated with a display screen, may be connected to
 Lo an output port of the second computer via the same CAT6 twisted-pair cable as
    carries the HD video from an audio-video output port of the system to the associated
    display screen.
    Preferably, a HDBaseT input, HDMI output, infra-red output connection, and wireless
    network access point, or any combination of those, are integrated into a single
 L5 hardware receiver device. Typically, one receiver device would be provided for each
    HDBaseT audio-video output port provided on the base station.
    A hardware receiver device may integrate a wireless network access point, or
    alternatively the hardware receiver device may integrate an Ethernet port for
    connection of an external wireless network access point.
 )o The first computer in most embodiments will be in most respects similar to a general
    purpose computer, running a common operating system suitable for embedded
    systems and adapted to run application software written in high-level languages.
    The second computer may be in the form of a single-chip microcontroller, and
    generally is not provided with an operating system as such.       Rather, the second
25  computer is designed to run discrete machine code programs which are loaded into
    it by the first computer, and each of which has a particular hardware effect such as
    causing the transmission of an infra-red command or causing a particular audio
    video output port to be switched to carry the signal from a particular audio-video
    input port, or a combination of those things. The second computer may well have a
30  fundamentally different architecture from the first computer, for example in some
    embodiments the second computer may have separate program and data memory,
    whereas the first computer will almost always use the same memory for storage of
                                                5

    data and program instructions, albeit this is not essential to the invention.     The
    mobile computer is typically a smartphone or tablet device, running a mobile
    operating system for example Android (RTM) or iOS (RTM).
     It is evident that the machine code programs stored on the mobile computer or the
  5 first computer will need to be selected depending on the particular devices which are
    connected to the particular audio-video input and output ports.       To allow a wide
    variety of devices to be used with the system without taking up a large amount of
    storage space on the mobile computer or first computer, it is envisaged that the
    mobile computer and/or the first computer will be preconfigured by storing only
 Lo programs which are needed to control the currently-connected set of audio-video
    devices.     The configuration process may be handled by the first computer.         In
    particular, application software running on the first computer may accept user input
    as to which devices are connected to which ports, or alternatively may be able to
    automatically detect devices in some cases. The first computer will then obtain infra
 L5 red commands relating to connected devices from a library, which will typically be a
    remote library accessible via the internet. The first computer will then automatically
    generate a machine code program for each infra red command of each connected
    device, and then either store the generated machine code in storage associated with
    the first computer, and transmit references to the mobile computer for storage on the
 )o mobile computer, or directly send the generated machine code programs to the
    mobile computer for storage.
    Typically, multiple mobile computers may be connected to a single system, for
    example one smartphone belonging to each member of a family. Each mobile
    computer can be provided with the same set of machine code programs or
25  references for storage, and transmission to the base station in response to a user
    command.
    At the same time, other configuration information for the application software running
    on the mobile computer can be distributed. For example, the layout of buttons on
    the screen which when pressed cause transmission of associated infra-red
30  commands (by sending a machine code program for execution on the second
    computer).
                                               6

    Preferably, the transmission of either machine code programs or references to
    machine code programs from the mobile computer to the first computer is via an
    HTTP API. In many embodiments, machine code programs may be transmitted over
    HTTP or another protocol in the form of hexadecimal strings.
 5  DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    For a better understanding of the invention, and to show more clearly how it may be
    carried into effect, a specific embodiment will now be described with reference to the
    accompanying drawings, in which:
    Figure 1 is a schematic of an embodiment of the system of the invention;
 Lo Figure 2 illustrates a method of configuring the system of Figure 1; and
    Figure 3 illustrates another aspect of configuring the system of Figure 1.
    DESCRIPTION OF AN EXAMPLE EMBODIMENT
    Referring firstly to Figure 1, an audio-video distribution system comprises a base
    station 12, a plurality of infra-red transmitters 14a,b,c,d, and a mobile device 16. The
 L5 mobile device is connected to the base station via a packet-switched network 18.
    The base station 12 includes a first computer and a second computer. The first
    computer includes a network interface and is connected to the packet-switched
    network 18. The first computer runs a conventional operating system for embedded
    systems, and runs a web server for managing and configuring the base station,
20  among other things. The second computer is a single-chip microcontroller.            The
    purpose of the second computer is to directly control hardware, including the infra
    red transmitters 14a,b,c,d. The first computer is in communication with the first
    computer such that the first computer can load machine code instructions into the
    second computer, and can cause the second computer to execute those instructions.
25  The mobile computer 16 is a conventional mobile "smartphone", for example an
    iPhone (RTM) or Android (RTM) device.
    The packet-switched network is typically an internal home TCP/IP network, which
    includes wired and wireless physical parts. In most embodiments, the mobile device
    16 will connect wirelessly to the network 18, but the base station 12 may be provided
30  with a wired network connection.         In practical terms, it may be convenient to co
                                                   7

    locate the base station 12 with home networking equipment, for example a modem
    router.
    For clarity, Figure 1 does not show any display screens or audio-video input / output
    ports.    However, these would be provided on the base station.         Ideally, a video
  5 distribution system will provide multiple audio-video source inputs and multiple
    audio-video display outputs, with the ability to view any source on any screen. The
    audio-video inputs and outputs are therefore connected to each other via a switching
    matrix, which in turn is controlled by the second computer. A typical system might
    include for example four audio-video inputs (e.g. for a satellite receiver, blu-ray
 Lo player, CCTV device and home computer) and four audio-video outputs (e.g. for
    display screens in the living room, two bedrooms and a kitchen).       Ideally, infra-red
    transmitters are provided for each input and each output, so that both sources and
    display screens are controllable via the system.
     In Figure 1, a single blu-ray player 20 is shown as an example source device.
 L5 Typically, source devices would be located close to the base station 12 and
    connected to input ports on the base station 12 via HDMI ports. Display screens are
    likely to be more widely distributed, and some display screens may well be located at
    some distance from the base station 12.          Therefore, the video signal may be
    transmitted from the base station to the display screen via HDBaseT over, for
 )o example, CAT6 cable. In this case, a small receiver unit will be provided near each
    display screen.
     In this embodiment, the mobile device 16 has been configured with application
    software for controlling, among other devices, the blu-ray player 20. Specifically, the
    application software is configured to store machine code programs corresponding to
25  remote control functions of the blu-ray player 20.      For example, a machine code
    program would be provided for the play function, another program for the fast
    forward function, another for rewind and so on.       The application software on the
    mobile device 16 presents the user with simple buttons to activate each function,
    similar to the infra-red remote control originally supplied with the blu-ray player 20.
30  Each button on the user interface is associated with one of the stored machine code
    programs, in the sense that when the button is pressed the associated machine code
    program is received from storage and sent to the first computer of the base station
                                                8

    12 via the packet-switched network 18. The first computer then loads the machine
    code program into the second computer, and causes the second computer to
    execute that program. This has the effect of causing the infra-red transmitter 14b
    which is associated with the blu-ray player 20 to transmit the infra-red control
  5 command to the blu-ray player 20.
    Referring now to Figure 2, a method of configuring the system of Figure 1 will be
    described. The configuration is handled primarily by the base station 12, specifically
    the first computer, although may be controlled by a remote user interface, for
    example a web-based interface or by application software running on one of the
 Lo mobile devices 16a,b,c,d and communicating with the base station via a packet
    switched network.
    The method firstly involves establishing which devices are connected to which audio
    video input ports and audio-video output ports.           More precisely, it involves
    establishing which device is associated with each infra-red transmitter, although in
 L5 this embodiment and in most embodiments each infra-red transmitter has a fixed
    association with an       audio-video  input port or an      audio-video output port.
    Establishing which devices are connected may be a simple case of asking the user
    via a user interface, or it may be possible in some embodiments to automatically
    detect which devices are plugged into which audio-video input/output ports (and
 )O therefore which devices are associated with which infra-red transmitters). Typically,
    the manufacturer and model of each device is the required information, since this is
    what determines the infra-red commands which will control the device.
    The first computer of the base station 12 will then contact a remote control command
    library 22. The remote control command library 22 is typically on a remote server on
25  the internet.   In Figure 2, all of the devices shown are connected via a packet
    switched network. However, the house-shaped boundary shows the extent of the
    home network, the remote control command library 22 is a "cloud service" on the
    wider internet. There is an authentication step for the base station 12 to gain access
    to the remote control command library. After authentication, the base station 12 can
30  retrieve details of the remote control commands for each device which is connected
    to the system.
                                                9

    Machine code programs suitable for execution on the second computer are then
    generated on the first computer. A machine code program needs to be generated
    for each function of each device which is to be controlled.       The machine code
    program needs to be generated to take account of not only the specific function of
  5 the specific device (and therefore the specific infra-red command which needs to be
    sent) but also the port which that device is plugged in to, and therefore the infra-red
    transmitter associated with the device. The generated machine code program, when
    executed on the second computer, will cause a specific infra-red command to be
    output by a specific infra-red transmitter.
 Lo  In this embodiment, the machine code programs are sent to individual mobile
    devices 16a,b,c,d for storage on the mobile devices. Once the base station has
    been configured with details of the devices plugged in to each port and has retrieved
    the necessary details from the remote control command library 22, any number of
    mobile devices 16 can connect to the base station and synchronize their
 L5 configuration with that stored on the base station. The authentication step with the
    remote control command library 22 does not need to be repeated, unless new
    devices are plugged in which require the retrieval of new remote control commands.
    Figure 3 shows another aspect of configuration of mobile devices 16, and also
    illustrates the user interface which is presented to a user of the system. For each
 )O device which can be controlled, each remote control function has a button provided
    within the application software on the mobile computer 16.       Each remote control
    function   is associated with a machine code program            as described above.
    Additionally, the configuration can determine the layout of the buttons on the screen,
    for example to replicate the original infra-red remote control supplied with each
25  device.    Preferably, such screen layout information is downloaded by the base
    station from the remote control command library 22, at the same time as the remote
    control command information is downloaded.          Screen layout configuration could
    alternatively be user-configurable, but the base station 12 can still serve to act as a
    central synchronization point so that each mobile computer 16 does not need to be
30  configured separately. Preferably, configuration information for the location of each
    button on the screen is given in the form of grid co-ordinates, so that each button is
    positioned in a defined location on a grid (which is visible in Figure 3 but in most
                                                10

   embodiments the grid would not be visible to the user), depending on the
   configuration.
   The video distribution system according to the invention allows very low latency
   control of both the video distribution system itself (i.e. control of the switching matrix
5  - which source is displayed on which screen) and also the connected source devices
   and display screens, via the infra-red transmitters. Storing machine code programs
   for retrieval and execution on the second computer in response to user input ensures
   that the response speed of connected devices to the smartphone app control is
   comparable to the response speed when using a conventional infra-red remote
Lo control.
   The invention according to the claims is not limited to the description given above,
   but changes and modifications will be apparent to the skilled person, including
   different combinations of the described features.
                                               11

CLAIMS
   1. An audio-video distribution system for sending an audio-video signal from at
      least one audio-video source to any of a plurality of connected display
      screens, the system comprising:
              at least one audio-video input port for connecting an audio-video
              source;
              a plurality of audio-video output ports for connecting display screens;
              at least one infra-red transmitter for transmitting infra-red remote
              control commands to at least one of the audio-video source(s) or at
              least one of the display screens;
              a first computer having a network interface for connection to a packet
              switched network;
              a second computer, the infra-red transmitter(s) being connected to
              output interface(s) of the second computer, and the first computer
              being in communication with the second computer to allow the first
              computer to load machine code instructions into the second computer
              and to cause the execution by the second computer of said machine
              code instructions;
              storage configured to contain a plurality of machine code programs
              executable by the second computer, each program when executed on
              the second computer causing the or a selected one of the infra-red
              transmitter(s) to transmit a selected infra-red remote control command;
              and
              a mobile computer having a network interface for connection to the
              same packet-switched network as the first computer, the mobile
              computer including application software configured to transmit a
              selection of one of the stored machine code programs via the packet
              switched network to the first computer, in response to user input,
      the first computer being adapted to receive the selection from the mobile
      computer, and to cause the execution on the second computer of the selected
      machine code program.
                                            12

2. An audio-video distribution system according to claim 1, in which the storage
   containing the machine code programs is storage of the mobile computer.
3. An audio-video distribution system according to claim 1, in which the storage
   containing the machine code programs is storage of the first computer.
4. An audio-video distribution system according to claim 2 or claim 3, in which
   the storage is high-speed random access memory.
5. An audio-video distribution system according to any of the preceding claims,
   in which a plurality of audio-video inputs are provided, and the routing of
   audio-visual signals from audio-video inputs to audio-video outputs is
   controlled by a switching matrix, the switching matrix being connected to an
   output interface of and controllable by the second computer.
6. An audio-video distribution system according to claim 5, in which at least one
   machine code program is stored which, when executed on the second
   processor, causes a combination of a switching operation of the switching
   matrix and also transmission of an infra-red remote control command by one
   of the infra-red transmitters.
7. An audio-video distribution system according to any of the preceding claims,
   in which the first computer, second computer and audio-video input and
   output ports are integrated into a single hardware base station.
8. An audio-video distribution system as claimed in claim 7 when dependent on
   claim 5 or claim 6, in which the base station further integrates the switching
   matrix.
9. An audio-video distribution system as claimed in any of the preceding claims,
   in which at least one of the audio-video output ports is in the form of a
   HDBaseT output port for connection of a remote display screen.
1O.An audio-video distribution system as claimed in claim 9, in which a HDBaseT
   audio-video receiver is provided for deployment proximal to the remote
   display screen.
                                        13

11.An audio-video distribution system as claimed in claim 10 when dependent on
   claim 7, in which a wireless network access point is provided in the same unit
   as the HDBaseT receiver, the wireless network access point being connected
   to the base station via the same cable which carries the HDBaseT signal, and
   the wireless network access point being connected to the same packet
   switched network as the network interface of the first computer via that cable.
12.A method of configuring an audio-video distribution system according to any
   of the preceding claims, comprising the steps of:
          identifying the device(s) connected to the audio-video input and/or
          output ports, by means of application software running on the first
          computer;
          obtaining from a remote control command library and storing on the
          first computer, definitions of infra-red remote commands relating to the
          identified device(s);
          generating, on the first computer, a machine code program for each
          obtained definition of each identified device, the machine code program
          when executed on the second computer causing transmission of a
          respective infra-red remote command on an infra-red transmitter
          associated with the audio-video input or output port to which the
          respective identified device is connected;
          storing each generated machine code program.
13.A method as claimed in claim 12, in which each generated machine code
   program is stored on the first computer, and a reference to each program is
   transmitted to the mobile computer(s) and stored on the mobile computer(s).
14.A method as claimed in claim 12, in which each generated machine code
   program is transmitted to the mobile computer(s), for storage on the mobile
   computer(s).
                                        14

15.An audio-video distribution system substantially as described herein, with
   reference to and as illustrated in Figures 1 to 3 of the accompanying
   drawings.
16.A method of configuring an audio-video distribution system substantially as
   described herein, with reference to and as illustrated in Figures 1 to 3 of the
   accompanying drawings.
                                      15

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
