Abstract
An online ecommerce website that sells goods through a draw that works like online lottery.
Users register on the website as sellers or buyers. When a seller lists an item, he sets a retail price
which gets approved by an admin on the website. After the approval, the item is available on the
website for the buyers to start bidding. When a buyer places a bid, he receives an email with a code
which works like lottery numbers at the end of the draw. When the total of the bids reach the retail
price, the item is marked as sold. After selling the item, the website randomly picks a code and sends
an email to the buyer/winner to arrange pick up or delivery. Delivery fees are calculated and approved
by an admin.

    Editorial Note
      <removed-apn>
There is one page of description only

Introduction
Introducing an online ecommerce website that sells goods through a draw that works like online
lottery.
Users can register on the website as sellers or buyers.
When a seller lists an item, he sets a retail price which gets approved by an admin on the website.
After the approval, the item will be available on the website for the buyers to start bidding.
When a buyer places a bid, he receives an email with a code which works like lottery numbers at the
end of the draw.
When the total of the bids reach the retail price, the item will be marked as sold.
After selling the item, the website randomly picks a code and sends an email to the buyer/winner to
arrange pick up or delivery.
Delivery fees will be calculated and approved by an admin.
Key points
     e   Confirmation email for bidding + random code.
     "   Draw on random codes.
     "   Sold when reaching agreed price.
     "   A fees applies to seller account who wants to remove an item prior to selling + automatic
         refund to all bidders.
     e   This fee to be paid with their invoice at the end of the month.
     "   Bid winner will need to pay postage agreed on the listing and approved by admin.
     *   Product payment needs to be approved by admin before sending it to seller.
     "   Buyer pays for deliver fees.
    e    Buyer/Sellers must 16+ or 18+ depending on what Australian law advised.
     e   Potential to expand to real estate and selling cars.
     e   Prohibited items, credit cards, animal products, lottery tickets, weapons, drugs, dangerous
         goods, personal information, items supporting illegal acts or behaviour, brand replicas
         cannot be listed or sold on the website.

 Editorial Note
   <removed-apn>
There is one page of claims only

Patent goal and requirements
After doing some researches, this idea is new and never been introduced in any form. The project
will follow Australian laws and regulation.
The protection will need cover competitors creating websites that operate in the same way.
Competitors cannot sell goods through a draw.

