                                             - 32
ABSTRACT
A pressurised gases source is provided, the source comprising a centrifugal impeller
driven by a motor within a housing, the housing having a gases inlet, a gases outlet and
a partition to define first and second interior regions. The first region is defined by the
housing and the partition and comprises the gases inlet and the impeller, and the second
region is defined by the housing and the partition and comprises the gases outlet. The
first and second regions are fluidly connected by an opening formed in or by the
partition. The opening has a shape with a gradual opening and a gradual closing relative
to a plane of rotation of the impeller

   0
00

                                                 - 1
                               "A PRESSURISED GASES SOURCE"
    BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
    Field of the Invention
 5 This invention relates to a gases supply and gases humidification apparatus, particularly
    but not solely for providing respiratory assistance to patients or users who require a
   supply of gas for the treatment of diseases such as Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA),
   snoring, or Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and the like.         In particular,
   this invention relates to a compressor or blower for use in a gases supply apparatus.
10
    Description of the Related Art
    Devices or systems for providing a humidified gases flow to a patient for therapeutic
    purposes are well known in the art.       Systems for providing therapy of this type, for
   example CPAP therapy, have a structure where gases at the required pressure are
15 delivered from a blower (also known as a compressor, an assisted breathing unit, a fan
   unit, a flow generator or a pressure generator) to a humidifier chamber downstream from
   the blower. As the gases are passed through the heated, humidified air in the humidifier
   chamber, they become saturated with water vapour. The gases are then delivered to a
   user or patient downstream from the humidifier, via a gases conduit.
20
    Humidified gases can be delivered to a user from a modular system that has been
   assembled from separate units (that is, a system where the humidifier chamber/heater
   and the breathing unit/blower are separate items) connected in series via conduits.        A
   schematic view of a user 1 receiving air from a modular assisted breathing unit and
25  humidifier system (together or separately a "breathing assistance apparatus") is shown
   in Figure 1.    Pressurised air is provided from an assisted breathing unit or blower 2a via
   a connector conduit 10 to a humidifier chamber 4a. Humidified, heated and pressurised
   gases exit the humidifier chamber 4a via a user conduit 3, and are provided to the
    patient or user 1 via a user interface 5.
30
   It is becoming more common for integrated blower/humidifier systems to be used.            A
   typical integrated system ("breathing assistance apparatus") consists of a main blower or
   assisted breathing unit which provides a pressurised gases flow, and a humidifier unit
   that mates with or is otherwise rigidly connected to the blower unit. This mating occurs
35 for example by a slide-on or push connection, so that the humidifier is held firmly in
    place on the main blower unit.      A schematic view of the user 1 receiving air from an
   integrated blower/humidifier unit 6 is shown in Figure 2.      The system operates in the

                                                 - 2
   same manner as the modular system shown in Figure 1, except that humidifier chamber
   4b has been integrated with the blower unit to form the integrated unit 6.
   The user interface 5 shown in Figures 1 and 2 is a nasal mask, covering the nose of the
   user 1. However, it should be noted that in systems of these types, a mask that covers
 5 the mouth and nose, a full face mask, a nasal cannula, or any other suitable user
   interface could be substituted for the nasal mask shown. A mouth-only interface or oral
   mask could also be used. Also, the patient or user end of the conduit can be connected
   to a tracheostomy fitting, or an endotracheal intubation.
10 US 7,111,624 includes a detailed description of an integrated system. A 'slide-on' water
   chamber is connected to a blower unit in use.       A variation of this design is a slide-on or
   clip-on design where the chamber is enclosed inside a portion of the integrated unit in
   use. An example of this type of design is shown in WO 2004/112873, which describes a
   blower, or flow generator 50, and an associated humidifier 150.
15
   For these systems, the most common mode of operation is as follows: air is drawn by the
   blower through an inlet into the casing which surrounds and encloses at least the blower
   portion of the system.     The blower (controlled by a microcontroller, microprocessor or
   similar) pressurises the air stream from the flow generator outlet and passes this into the
20 humidifier chamber. The air stream is heated and humidified in the humidifier chamber,
   and exits the humidifier chamber via an outlet. A flexible hose or conduit is connected
   either directly or indirectly to the humidifier outlet, and the heated, humidified gases are
   passed to a user via the conduit. This is shown schematically in Figure 2.
25 Impeller type fans or blowers are most commonly used in breathing systems of this type.
   An impeller blade unit is contained within an impeller housing. The impeller blade unit is
   connected to a drive of some form by a central spindle.         A typical impeller housing is
   shown in Figures 3 and 4.          A typical rotating impeller unit 54, having a plurality of
   blades 151 and a shroud 152, which in use is located inside the housing is shown in
30 Figures 5 and 6. Air is drawn into the centre of the impeller unit through an aperture,
   and is then forced outwards from the centre of the housing towards an exit passage
   (usually located to one side of the housing) by the blades of the rotating impeller unit.
   Generally, domestic users receive treatment for sleep apnea or similar.             It is most
   common for a nasal mask, or a mask that covers both the mouth and nose, to be used.
35 If a nasal mask is used, it is common to strap or tape the mouth closed, so that the use
   of the system is effective (mouth leak and the associated pressure drop are substantially
   reduced or eliminated). For the range of flows dictated by the user's breathing, the CPAP
   device pressure generator provides a flow of gases at a substantially constant pressure.

                                                 - 3
   The pressure can usually be adjusted before use, or during use, either by a user, or a
    medical professional who sets up the system.        Systems that provide variable pressure
   during use are also known - for example BiPAP machines that provide two levels of
    pressure: One for inhalation (IPAP) and a lower pressure during the exhalation phase
 5  (EPAP). Variable pressure or constant pressure systems are all "breathing assistance
   apparatus"
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   It   is  an  object of the     present invention    to   provide  an  improved   impeller   or
10  blower/compressor/pressurised      gases   source for    use with   a breathing   assistance
   apparatus or an improved breathing assistance apparatus.
   In one aspect the present invention consists in a pressurised gases source comprising:
             an impeller driven by a motor within a housing, the housing having a gases inlet,
15 a gases outlet and a partition to define first and second interior regions, wherein the first
    region is defined by the housing and the partition and comprises the gases inlet and the
   impeller, and the second region is defined by the housing and the partition and comprises
   the gases outlet,
             wherein the first and second regions are fluidly connected by an opening formed
20 in or by the partition, the opening having a shape with a gradual opening and a gradual
   closing relative to a plane of rotation of the impeller.
   In some embodiments, the impeller is a lightweight impeller that is shroudless or
   otherwise has reduced material.
25
   In some embodiments, the lightweight impeller is formed in one piece.
   In some embodiments, the impeller is a centrifugal impeller rotatable about a central
   axis.
30
   In some embodiments, the pressurised gases source comprises a volute in the second
   interior region.
   In some embodiments, the volute has a tongue at least partially defining a transition
35  between the volute and the gases outlet, the tongue located in the second interior
    region.

                                                -4
   In some embodiments, the outlet is connected to the volute via an aperture and the
   aperture and a wall of the volute define a tongue whereby gases circulating in the volute
   are diverged into the outlet.
 5 In some embodiments, the volute has a sealing inner wall defining a space internal to the
   housing to house a motor.
   In some embodiments, the outlet is an outlet passage and the outlet passage is
   tangential or radial to the impeller.
10
   In some embodiments, the housing comprises an upper housing and a lower housing, the
   partition being generally circular and dividing the upper housing from the lower housing
   thereby defining the first and second interior regions.
15 In some embodiments, the opening is located at or close to an outer edge of the
   partition.
   In some embodiments, the opening is formed by a cut-away in the partition or an
   arrangement of the partition and the housing to create the opening between the partition
20 and housing.
   In some embodiments, a curvature or centre of radius of the opening is offset from a
   centre of radius of the partition or otherwise has a curvature that differs from that of the
   circumference of the partition resulting in an eccentric or otherwise offset circumferential
25 opening around the circumference of the partition.
   In some embodiments, the opening comprises a crescent shaped opening.
   In some embodiments, the opening allows for a gradual supply of pressure and flow from
30 the first region to the second region.
   In some embodiments, an angle of the gradual opening and the gradual closing of the
   opening allows for reverse flow to return from the second region to the first region in a
   stable fashion.
35
   In some embodiments, the gradual opening and gradual closing of the opening is without
   a sharp break in geometry.

                                               - 5
   In another aspect the present invention consists in a CPAP machine comprising a
   pressurised gases source as described in any one or more of the above statements.
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a breathing assistance
 5 apparatus comprising: a pressurised gases source comprising: a gases inlet, a gases
   outlet adapted to emit pressurised gases to an outlet of the breathing assistance
   apparatus, and a lightweight impeller.
   Preferably lightweight impeller is shroudless or otherwise has reduced material.
10
   Preferably lightweight impeller is formed in one piece.
   Preferably the lightweight impeller has a radius of between 15 and 60 mm.
15 Preferably the lightweight impeller has a mass of less than 2 grams and preferably
   between 0.8 and 1.8 grams.
   Preferably the lightweight impeller has a pressure to inertia to radius ratio greater than
   50:1 Pa per gram*mm, and preferably greater than 80:1 Pa per gram*mm.
20
   Preferably the lightweight impeller has a moment of inertia to radius ratio less than 15
   g*mm and preferably within the range of 8 to 12 g*mm.
   Preferably the lightweight impeller has a blade sweep volume to a blade volume ratio of
25 16:1 or greater.
   Preferably the impeller is a centrifugal impeller rotatable about a central axis.
   Preferably the breathing assistance apparatus comprises a motor for driving the impeller
30 wherein the motor is operated using field oriented control.
   Preferably the gases source further comprises a housing having upper and lower internal
   surfaces that enclose the impeller, and wherein the impeller has a plurality of blades that
   are substantially open to the upper and lower internal surfaces of the housing by virtue
35 of being shroudless.
   Preferably the housing forms part of or is integrated with the breathing assistance
   apparatus.

                                                -6
   Preferably the gases source further comprises a partition to define first and second
   interior regions within the housing, wherein the first and second regions are fluidly
   connected by an opening formed in or by the partition.
 5
   Preferably the opening formed in or by the partition is at least partially circumferential.
   Preferably opening formed in or by the partition is crescent shaped.
10 Preferably the first region is defined by the housing and the partition and comprises the
   gases inlet.
   Preferably the second region is defined by the housing and the partition and comprises
   the gases outlet.
15
   Preferably the impeller has an axis of rotation, the partition extending radially from the
   axis of rotation.
   Preferably the housing further comprises a volute in the second region.
20
   Preferably the opening is proximate the periphery of the volute.
   Preferably the impeller is located within the first region.
25 Preferably a distal end of the impeller blades curve in the direction of blade rotation.
   Preferably the breathing assistance apparatus further comprises a motor, the motor
   comprising: a rotatable shaft located within a stator, and at least one bearing structure
   to support the rotatable shaft within the stator, the bearing structure having one or more
30 bearing mounts.
   Preferably the bearing mount provides compliant support to the rotatable shaft.
   Preferably an outer portion of the one or more bearing mounts engages the stator and/or
35 a stator frame and/or other structure.
   Preferably an outer portion of the one or more bearing mounts engages the stator and/or
   frame of the stator.

   Preferably the stator comprises a stator frame, an inner surface of the stator frame
   engages with the bearing structure.
 5 Preferably the bearing structure further comprises one or more bearings supported by
   the bearing mounts about the axis of the rotatable shaft.
   Preferably the pressurised gases source has a housing and the breathing apparatus
   further comprises a motor mount that couples the stator and the housing to provide
10 compliant support to the motor.
   Preferably the bearing mount and/or motor mount are flexible and/or resilient.
   Preferably the volute has a tongue at least partially defining a transition between the
15 volute and the gases outlet, the tongue located in the second interior region.
   Preferably the bearing mounts have a curved annular body and when engaged with the
   stator and/or stator frame and/or other structure the annular body is coerced into an
   engaged configuration that provides preload to the one or more bearings.
20
   Preferably the bearing mount is made from a material that provides resilience and/or
   flexibility to provide preload when in the engaged configuration.
   Preferably the bearing mounts are made from a material that provides damping.
25
   Preferably the motor is operated using field oriented control.
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a breath assistance
   apparatus comprising: a motor comprising a rotatable shaft located within a stator, a
30 bearing structure to support the rotatable shaft in the stator, the bearing structure
   having one or more bearing mounts.
   Preferably the bearing mounts provide compliant support to the rotatable shaft.
35 Preferably an outer portion of the one or more bearing mounts engages the stator and/or
   a stator frame and/or other structure.

                                                -8
   Preferably the stator comprises a stator frame, an inner surface of the stator frame
   engaging with the bearing structure.
   Preferably the bearing structure further comprises one or more bearings supported by
 5 the bearing mounts about the axis of the rotatable shaft.
   Preferably the bearing mount is flexible and/or resilient.
   Preferably the bearing mounts have a curved annular body and when engaged with the
10 stator and/or stator frame and/or other structure the annular body is coerced into an
   engaged configuration that provides preload to the one or more bearings.
   Preferably the bearing mount is made from a material that provides resilience and/or
   flexibility to provide preload when in the engaged configuration.
15
   Preferably the bearing mounts are made from a material that provides damping.
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a pressurised gases
   source comprising: a centrifugal impeller driven by a motor within a housing, the housing
20 having a gases inlet, a gases outlet and a partition to define first and second interior
   regions wherein the first and second regions are fluidly connected by an opening in the
   partition.
   Preferably the first region is defined by the housing and the partition and comprises the
25 gases inlet.
   Preferably the second region is defined by the housing and the partition and comprises
   the gases outlet.
30 A pressurised gases source according to any of the above used in a breathing assistance
   apparatus according to any of the above.
   In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a breathing assistance
   apparatus comprising: a pressurised gases source comprising: a housing a gases inlet,
35 a gases outlet adapted to emit pressurised gases to an outlet of the breathing assistance
   apparatus, a motor with a rotatable shaft and at least one bearing structure to support
   the rotatable shaft within a stator, the bearing structure having one or more flexible
   and/or resilient bearing mounts to provide compliance and/or preload and/or damping for

                                                -9
   the rotatable shaft, a lightweight impeller coupled to the rotatable shaft, a flexible and/or
   resilient motor mount that couples the stator and the housing to provide compliance
   and/or damping for the motor a partition to define first and second interior regions within
   the housing, wherein the first and second regions are fluidly connected by a crescent
 5 shaped opening formed in or by the partition.
   Preferably the lightweight impeller is shroudless or otherwise has reduced material.
   Preferably the lightweight impeller is formed in one piece.
10
   Preferably the lightweight impeller has a radius of between 15 and 60 mm.
   Preferably the lightweight impeller has a mass of less than 2 grams and preferably
   between 0.8 and 1.8 grams.
15
   Preferably the lightweight impeller has a pressure to inertia to radius ratio greater than
   50:1 Pa pergram*mm, and preferably greater than 80:1 Pa per gram*mm.
   Preferably the lightweight impeller has a moment of inertia to radius ratio less than 15
20 g*mm and preferably within the range of 8 to 12 g*mm.
   Preferably the lightweight impeller has a blade sweep volume to a blade volume ratio of
   16:1 or greater.
25 In another aspect the present invention may be said to consist in a pressurised gases
   source comprising: a gases inlet, a gases outlet, a motor with a shaft, and a lightweight
   impeller connected to the motor and rotatable to draw gases from the inlet and emit
   gases through the outlet, wherein the impeller is shroudless or otherwise has reduced
   material.
30
   Preferably the impeller is a centrifugal impeller rotatable about a central axis.
   Preferably the gases source further comprises a housing having upper and lower internal
   surfaces that enclose the impeller, and wherein the impeller has a plurality of blades that
35 are substantially open to the upper and lower internal surfaces of the housing by virtue
   of being shroudless.
   Preferably the housing forms part of or is integrated with a CPAP machine.

                                               - 10
   Preferably the gases source further comprises a partition to define first and second
   interior regions within the housing, wherein the first and second regions are fluidly
   connected by an opening formed in or by the partition.
 5
   Preferably the opening formed in or by the partition is at least partially circumferential.
   Preferably the first interior region is defined by the housing and the partition and
   comprises the gases inlet.
10
   Preferably the second interior region is defined by the housing and the partition and
   comprises the gases outlet.
   Preferably the impeller has an axis of rotation, the partition extending radially from the
15 axis of rotation.
   Preferably the housing further comprises a volute in the second region.
   Preferably the opening is proximate the periphery of the volute.
20
   Preferably the impeller is located within the first region.
   Preferably a distal end of the impeller blades curve in the direction of blade rotation.
25 Preferably the further comprising a motor, the motor comprising:            a rotatable shaft
   located within a stator, and at least one bearing structure to support the rotatable shaft,
   the bearing structure having one or more bearing mounts engaged and axially aligned
   with the stator to provide compliant support to the rotatable shaft.
30 Preferably an outer portion of the one or more bearing mounts engages the stator.
   Preferably the stator comprises a stator frame, an inner surface of the stator frame
   engaging with the bearing structure.
35 Preferably the bearing structure further comprises one or more bearings supported by
   the bearing mounts about the axis of the rotatable shaft.

                                                - 11
   Preferably the pressurised gases source further comprises a motor mount that couples
   the stator frame and the housing to provide compliant support to the motor.
   Preferably the bearing mount is flexible and/or resilient.
 5
   Preferably the volute has a tongue at least partially defining a transition between the
   volute and the gases outlet, the tongue located in the second interior region.
   Preferably the motor is vector controlled.
10
   In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications, other
   external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
   providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
   otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission
15 that such documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or
   form part of the common general knowledge in the art
   The term "comprising" as used in this specification means "consisting at least in part of".
   When     interpreting   each  statement    in this  specification that   includes the   term
20 "comprising", features other than that or those prefaced by the term may also be
   present. Related terms such as "comprise" and "comprises" are to be interpreted in the
   same manner.
   It is intended that reference to a range of numbers disclosed herein (for example, 1 to
25 10) also incorporates reference to all rational numbers within that range (for example, 1,
   1.1, 2, 3, 3.9, 4, 5, 6, 6.5, 7, 8, 9 and 10) and also any range of rational numbers within
   that range (for example, 2 to 8, 1.5 to 5.5 and 3.1 to 4.7).
   BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
30 A preferred form of the present invention will now be described with reference to the
   accompanying drawings.
   Figure 1 shows a schematic view of a modular assisted breathing unit and humidifier
   system.
35 Figure 2 shows a schematic view of a modular assisted breathing unit and humidifier
   system.
   Figure 3 shows a plan view of an example of a blower unit.
   Figure 4 shows a side view of the blower unit of figure 3.

                                              - 12
   Figure 5 shows a profile view of an impeller.
   Figure 6 shows another profile view of an impeller.
   Figure 7 shows a profiled view of a gases supply unit.
   Figure 8 shows an exploded view of the gases supply unit of figure 7.
 5 Figure 9 shows an internal view of a gases supply unit (viewed from underneath).
   Figure 10 shows a profiled view of the gases supply unit of figure 9.
   Figure 11 shows a plan view of the top side of a blower unit of one embodiment.
   Figure 12 shows a plan view of the bottom side of the blower unit of figure 11.
   Figure 13 shows a profile   view of the bottom side of the blower unit of figure 12
10 Figure 14A shows a plan view of the impeller with no shroud according to one
   embodiment.
   Figure 15A shows a profile view of the impeller of Figure 14a with no shroud.
   Figure 14B shows a plan view of the impeller with reduced shroud material according to
   one embodiment.
15 Figure 15B shows a profile view of the impeller of Figure 14b with reduced shroud
   material.
   Figure 14C shows a plan view of the impeller with a web structure.
   Figure 15C shows a profile view of the impeller of Figure 14c with a web structure.
   Figure 16 shows an exploded view of the preferred housings and impeller of one
20 embodiment.
   Figure 17 shows a plan view of the lower housing, partition and impeller of one
   embodiment.
   Figure 18 shows a profile view of the components of figure 17.
   Figure 19 shows a cross sectional view of the motor and impeller of one embodiment.
25 Figure 20 shows a motor mounting structure one embodiment.
   Figure 21 shows the motor mounting structure with a motor and impeller of one
   embodiment.
   Figure 22A is a graph of average sound pressure levels of an earlier blower unit.
   Figure 22B is a graph of average sound pressure levels of the blower unit of the present
30 invention.
   Figure 23 shows the motor mounting structure with a motor and impeller of a second
   embodiment.
   Figure 24 shows a stator lamination of the second embodiment.
   Figure 25 shows a pole face of the second embodiment.
35 Figure 26 shows a bearing mount of the second embodiment.
   Figure 27 shows a cross sectional view of the motor and impeller of the second
   embodiment.
   Figure 28 shows a motor mounting structure of the second embodiment.

                                                - 13
   Figure 29A is a pressure response graph of an earlier blower unit.
   Figure 29B is a pressure response graph of the blower unit of the present invention.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
 5 The present invention will be described with reference to a breathing assistance
   apparatus/system where the humidifier chamber is integrated with the gases supply unit
   (also referred to as a respirator unit or blower unit).      However, it should be noted that
   the system is equally applicable to a modular system.
10 The present invention relates to a lightweight/low inertia impeller.          The lightweight
   nature of the impeller provides low inertia.
   An example of an integrated gases supply unit 7 with which embodies the present
   invention is shown in Figure 7 - this is one example and should not be limiting.          The
15 integrated unit 7 comprises two main parts: a gases supply unit or blower unit 8 and a
   humidifier unit 9.   Humidification unit 9 is partially enclosed within the external shell 80
   of the blower unit 8 in use, except for the top of the humidification unit 9.          It also
   comprises an internal controller 14 such as a microcontroller, microprocessor or similar
   for controlling the blower unit and other operations, such as that shown schematically in
20 dotted lines.     It is not necessary to describe the structure and operation of the
   humidification unit 9 in detail in order to fully describe the present invention.
   The body of the gases supply unit 8 has the form of a generally rectangular block with
   substantially vertical side and rear walls, and a front face that is angled slightly
25 rearwards (all the walls can be angled inwards slightly if required).        In the preferred
   embodiment, the walls, base and top surface are all manufactured and connected as far
   as possible to minimise the occurrence of seams, and any necessary seams are sealed.
   As shown in Figure 7, the gases supply unit 8 includes a control knob 11, located on the
   lower section of the front face of the gases supply unit 8, with a control display 12
30 located directly above the knob 11. A patient outlet 30 is shown passing out of the rear
   wall of the gases supply unit 8. In the preferred embodiment, the free end of the outlet
   30 faces upwards for ease of connection. The patient outlet 30 is adapted to allow both
   pneumatic and electrical connection to one end of a conduit - e.g. conduit 3 - running
   between the integrated unit 7 and a patient interface - e.g. interface 5. An example of
35 the type of connector that can be used and the type of dual connection that can be made
   is described in US 6,953,354. It should be noted that for the purposes of reading this
   specification, the patient interface can be thought of as including both the interface 5 and
   the conduit 3 where it would be appropriate to read it in this manner.

                                               - 14
   The internal structure and components of the gases supply unit 8 will now be described
   with reference to Figures 8, 9 and 10.      The gases supply unit 8 includes an enclosing
   external shell 80 which forms part of, and encloses, the gases supply unit 8. The shell
 5 80 includes internal air passages for ducting air passing through the gases supply unit 8,
   and also internal recesses, cavities or slots into which components of the gases supply
   unit 8 is located in use.    The shell 80 of the gases supply unit 8 is further adapted to
   include an open-topped compartment 13. In use, humidifier chamber 9 is located within
   the compartment 13. Blower unit 8 includes a heater base or heater plate, located at the
10  bottom of the compartment 13.         A humidifier inlet aperture 15 and humidifier outlet
   aperture 16 are located on the wall of the compartment 13, towards the top of the
   compartment 13. In the preferred embodiment, the inlet and outlet apertures 15, 16 are
   aligned so as to mate with inlet and outlet humidifier ports 17, 18 located on the
    humidifier chamber 9, when the system is in use. It should be noted that other forms of
15  humidifier inlet are possible.   For example, a conduit running between the gases supply
   unit 8 and e.g. the lid of the humidifier chamber 9.     Also, if the humidifier chamber is a
   separate item (that is, not rigidly connected to the gases supply unit in use), the
    humidifier inlet aperture 15 will not be connected directly to the humidifier chamber, but
   will be connected instead to one end of a conduit or similar leading from the humidifier
20 inlet aperture on the gases supply unit, to the humidifier chamber.
   Air from atmosphere is drawn into the shell of the gases supply unit 8 through an
   atmospheric inlet vent 19.      This vent 19 can be located wherever is convenient on the
   external surface of the shell of the gases supply unit 8. In the preferred embodiment, as
25 shown in Figure 9 (viewing the housing from underneath), the inlet vent 19 is located on
   the rear face of the shell of the gases supply unit 8, on the right hand side of the rear
   face (right hand side when looking forwards). In the preferred embodiment, air is drawn
   in through the inlet vent 19 by means of a fan unit 20 which forms part of the gases
   supply unit 8, and which is located inside the enclosing external shell of the gases supply
30 unit 8.   The fan unit 20 provides a pressurised gases stream for the gases supply unit
   and therefore the assisted breathing system. The fan unit 20 will be described in more
   detail below. The air is drawn into the fan unit 20 indirectly, via a curved inlet path 22
   formed through the shell of the gases supply unit 8.      Path C runs from the inlet vent 19
   up over the power supply cavity and though the venturi (shown in dotted lines) past into
35 curved path 22 (including absorber foam channel and through a thermistor flow sensor)
   to an aperture 23 formed in the gases supply unit shell 80, the aperture 23 passing into
   a recess/plenum 21 which is formed in the gases supply unit shell 80, in which the fan
   unit 20 is located. The air then passes into the inlet 27.

                                               - 15
   The gases stream passes through the fan unit 20 to the humidifier inlet aperture 15 as
   follows: the shell of the gases supply unit 8 includes a chamber or outlet duct 26 which
   forms at least part of an outlet air path to allow gaseous communication between the fan
 5 unit 20 and the humidifier inlet aperture 15.      In the preferred embodiment, the outlet
   duct 26 runs up between the right hand side wall of the gases supply unit 8 (from behind
   looking forwards) and the front wall, up to the humidifier inlet aperture 15. As shown in
   Figures 9 and 10, air exiting the fan unit 20 enters the duct 26.
10 In use, air exits the shell of the gases supply unit or blower 8 via the humidifier inlet
   aperture 15 and enters the humidifier chamber 9. In the preferred form, the humidifier
   inlet aperture 15 forms an outlet at the end of the duct 26.       The gases are humidified
   and heated in the chamber 9, before passing out of the chamber 9 through the humidifier
   outlet aperture 16, which is directly or indirectly connected to the patient outlet 30 (it
15 should be noted that the outlet of the humidifier chamber 9 could also be completely
   separate from the gases supply unit 8). The heated humidified gas is then passed to the
   user 1 via conduit 3. The patient outlet 30 is adapted to enable pneumatic attachment of
   the patient conduit 3, and in the preferred embodiment, outlet 30 is also adapted to
   enable electrical connection via an electrical connector.        A combined electrical and
20 pneumatic connection can be useful for example if the conduit 3 is to be heated.
   Electrical heating of a conduit such as conduit 3 can prevent or minimise the occurrence
   of condensation within the conduit 3.    It should also be noted that the outlet connection
   does not have to be via the shell of the integrated unit 7.   If required, the connection for
   the conduit 3 could be located directly on an outlet from humidifier chamber 9.
25
   The blower unit 8 in use is set to a user-specified pressure level and/or the pressure level
   can be automatically controlled.     The flow rate for the preferred embodiment will vary
   during use, depending on the users breathing. The power to fan unit 20 can be altered,
   to change the speed at which the impeller 24 is rotating, and therefore the pressure.
30
   The structure of the fan unit 20 according to one embodiment shall now be described,
   with particular reference to Figures 11, 12 and 13. The fan unit 20 is located in recess 21
   of the shell of the gases supply unit 8 in use, as described above with reference to
   Figures 9 and 10. In the preferred form, the fan unit 20 comprises a rotating impeller
35 located inside a casing having the form of a snail or scroll casing 25.
   It can be seen that the fan unit 20 appears generally circular in plan view, as shown in
   Figures 11 and 12. The fan casing 25 includes an inlet aperture 27. In the preferred

                                                - 16
   form, inlet aperture 27 is a circular hole located in approximately the centre of the casing
   25 and passing from the outside of the casing to the inside. Air from the inlet path 22
   (see Figure 10) enters the fan casing 25 via the inlet aperture 27. It should be noted that
   where it would be appropriate to include the aperture 23 and at least part of the recess
 5 21 as part of the air inlet path, the specification should be read as including these
   elements. The preferred form of the casing 25 of the fan unit 20 also includes an outlet
   passage 28.
   In the preferred form, the outlet passage 28 is a short passage formed as an integral
10 part of the casing 25 and aligned substantially tangentially to the circumference to the
   remainder of the generally circular casing 25. A fan casing outlet aperture or exit
   aperture 29 (see e.g. Figure 13) is located at the outer end of the passage 28. It should
   be noted that the fan casing exit aperture 29 could be located wherever is convenient on
   the passage 28 (i.e. it does not have to be at the end of the passage, it could be through
15 the passage wall partway along its length, for example). Exit aperture 29 opens into the
   duct 26. The outlet passage 28 forms part of the air path from the fan to the humidifier
   inlet aperture 15.
   The fan casing 25 encloses the fan in use, except for the inlet aperture 27 and the exit
20 aperture 29 of the passage 28. In the preferred embodiment, rotation of the fan unit 20
   is driven by a motor, the fan or impeller unit being adapted for connection to the motor.
   Air or gases are drawn through inlet aperture 27 in the centre of the casing 25, into the
   centre of the impeller unit 24, and are then forced outwards as a gases stream through
   the exit aperture 29 of the outlet passage 28 by the impeller blades 31 as the impeller
25 unit 24 rotates.
   In the preferred form, the fan outlet passage or exit passage 28 has a generally
   rectangular cross-section, and the exit passage 28 is aligned substantially tangentially to
   the casing 25. However, the cross-section of the fan outlet passage 28 could be any
30 suitable shape, such as oval, rectangular or circular. The fan outlet passage 28 could also
   be arranged at any suitable angle to the impeller unit, for example facing radially
   outwards, or at any suitable angle between tangential and radial. The fan outlet passage
   28 causes the gases forced outwards by the impeller unit 24 to coalesce as a fluidic
   gases stream, and dictates the direction in which the gases stream flows. The overall
35 path or overall direction of the gases flow will be along the passage from the fan towards
   the fan casing exit aperture 29.

                                               - 17
   The preferred form of the impeller is shown in Figures 14 and 15. The impeller 24 has a
   plurality of blades 31 extending outward from a central hub 32. The impeller is a
   centrifugal impeller. The hub 32 defines the axis about which the impeller rotates.
   Preferably the hub 32 has an aperture or recess on the underside to allow engagement
 5 with a motor shaft which facilitates impeller rotation.       However, other engagement
   mechanisms, such as over moulding of the hub with a shaft, could be used. When the
   impeller is rotated, air enters the impeller blades in the region proximate the hub 32,
   travels radially outward and exits the blades proximate the blade tips 33. The impeller is
   preferably made in one piece ("one piece construction"), as opposed to moulded in
10 multiple parts and joined.    This is possible when there is no shroud - or at most one
   shroud. This reduces misalignment of components that might lead to imbalance or other
   disadvantages.     In the preferred embodiment there is no shroud (in contrast with for
   example the shroud 152 shown in Figures 5 and 6.)
15 The blades 31 preferably provide a substantially flat surface, from the hub 32 to the
   blade tip, and incident the direction of rotation to thereby centrifuge gases.    Preferably
   the tips of the impeller blade tips 33 partially curve in the direction of impeller rotation
   ("arrow "A"). That is, the blade tips 33 are forward swept. Forward swept blade tips help
   to impart stronger rotational forces on the gases flowing through the impeller than
20 straight or backswept blades. The forward swept blade tips help to produce a high
   pressure annulus between beyond tip of each blade. The inner portion 31 of the impeller
   blade may be somewhat backswept. A backswept blade allows for some recirculation of
   gases on the blade surface itself. The backswept inner blade portion may be beneficial to
   increase pressure generation and allow for stable low and reverse gases flow.
25
   The impeller is constructed to be lightweight.   Preferably, this is by making the impeller
   shroudless, or at least partially shroudless, thereby removing weight.        To achieve a
   lightweight impeller, as shown in Figure 14a and 15a, each of the blades 31 of the
   preferred impeller 24 are open between the blades (that is, the upper and lower "faces"
30 or "planes" of the impeller are open to the internal surfaces of the housing of the fan unit
   20) thereby defining a shroudless centrifugal impeller. By omitting a shroud on both the
   upper and/or lower faces of the impeller blades, the weight of the impeller 24 can be
   substantially reduced. The weight of the impeller can also be reduced in other ways, in
   addition to or alternatively to omitting the shroud.   For example, a lightweight material
35 can be used.     Also, thin blades with minimal material and large gaps between blades
   could be implemented to reduce weight. Alternatively, a shroud 35 with some of the
   material removed, such as shown in Figures 14b, 15b could be used. A scalloped shaped
   36 shroud is provided whereby some of the material between blades 31 is removed.         Any

                                               - 18
   suitable amount of material could be removed. A shroud channels air from the impellers.
   Where significant material is removed, the resulting structure may in fact no longer carry
   out this function of a shroud but rather just provide support for impeller blades 31.     In
   this case, the impeller 24 may still be considered shroudless, despite having some
 5 structure between impeller blades 31.       In yet a further embodiment shown in Figures
   14c, 15c the structure between the impeller blades is a webbing that is disposed centrally
   between impellers.      Such as structure does not function as a shroud.        The reduced
   material structure or webbing 36 can be of any shape (not just scalloped) or extent, of
   which Figures 14b, 15b, 14c, 15c show two examples. A lightweight impeller 24 provides
10 benefits such as manufacturing cost, low rotational inertia and is balanced or requires
   little effort to rotationally balance once manufactured. An impeller with low rotational
   inertia can be quickly accelerated and decelerated. A lightweight, shroudless impeller is
   therefore suited for quickly responding to fluctuating pressure requirements, such as the
   normal inhalation and exhalation cycle of a patient connected to the breathing assistance
15 device in which the impeller operates.
   For example, a conventional shrouded impeller commonly used on a breathing assistance
   device, weighing approximately 17 grams and having inertia of 6 kg.mm2, can respond
   to pressure fluctuations of 10 cmH20 in approximately 2 seconds. By contrast, the
20 preferred impeller, weighing approximately        1.7 grams and inertia of 0.5 kg.mm2,
   responds pressure fluctuations of 10cmH20 in approximately 100ms. Figure 29A shows
   a graph of pressure verses time for the earlier impeller weighing 17 grams. The impeller
   is operated to attempt to maintain a constant pressure of 4cmH20 during the normal
   inhalation and exhalation cycle of a patient. In comparison, Figure 29B shows a graph of
25 pressure verses time for the preferred impeller 24. It can be seen that the decrease in
   mass and rotational inertia over the earlier impeller exhibits much            less pressure
   fluctuation that the impeller of Figure 29A. The reduced pressure fluctuation is less
   disruptive to a patient's breathing process, and therefore advantageously increases
   patient comfort.
30
   As mentioned, the lightweight can be achieved by omitting a shroud.       However, it is not
   necessary to omit the entire shroud - rather just sufficient shroud to bring the weight of
   the impeller to a suitable level - such as shown in Figures 14B, 15B,              14C, 15C.
   Therefore, lightweight can be achieved by having as much open space (area or volume)
35 between the blades as possible.      The open space can be defined in terms of the blade
   volume to blade sweep volume ratio/percentage. That is, the blades sweep a volume X
   when rotating and the blades themselves have a combined volume Y (which is the
   volume of each blade combined).      Alternatively, from a plan perspective, the open space

                                                - 19
   can be defined in terms of the blade area to the blade sweep area. The ratios should be
   kept as low as possible.         In one embodiment, for example the swept volume of the
   impeller is approximately         19,000mm3, where the blades constitute a volume of
   approximately 1,200mm3. The ratio of swept volume to blade volume is therefore
 5 approximately 16:1, thereby defining an impeller that is lightweight compared to the
   smaller, more densely designed and heavier impellers used earlier.
   The lightweight impeller can have a weight for example of less than 2 grams and
   preferably between 0.8 and 1.8 grams, or more preferably, between 1.2 and 1.7 grams,
10 or even more preferably 1.7 grams. These are just examples or a preferred embodiment
   and the impeller need not be this weight, but some other weight that renders it
   lightweight.
   Alternatively, a lightweight impeller can be designed to remove as much of the shroud as
15 necessary to bring the moment of inertia to radius ratio down to preferably less than 15
   gram*mm,      and   more    preferably   between    8-12  gram*mm     and   in one   possible
   embodiment approximately 11 gram*mm.             For example, in one possible embodiment,
   such an impeller can have a radius of 35mm, a circumference of 219 mm, and at 15,000
   rpm a moment of inertia of 344.22, a tip speed of 54.98 m/s, a pressure of 1,800 Pa and
20 a tip speed to inertia to radius ratio of 3.5 or more and for example 5.59.             More
   generally, a lightweight impeller could have dimensions/parameters within the following
   ranges (note these ranges are indicative - not limiting):
   Radius: 15mm-60mm
   Weight: less than 2 grams
25
   A pressure ratio to inertia to radius ratio of greater than 50:1 Pascals per gram*mm and
   preferably 80:1 Pa per gram*mm or more at 1,00OPa.
   Lightweight impellers enable larger radius impellers to be used.           Yet larger radius
30 impellers can be used than those mentioned above.            Larger radius impellers provide
   greater tip speed and pressure. The construction of the impeller allows for greater radius
   impellers because the lightweight nature of the impeller is such that even with larger
   impellers, the inertia is still low enough to provide the required response and pressures.
35 The lightweight nature of the impeller can be achieved through removing mass through
   any suitable means, such as removing the shroud and/or material from the impeller
   and/or using lighter materials. One possible manner in which to reduce impeller mass is
   to reduce the number of blades.

                                               - 20
   The impeller generates a high pressure annulus between the tip and inner face of the
   housing.    The backward facing impeller with a forward sweep at the tip also allows for
   recirculation on the blade itself, which helps with increased pressure generation and
 5 stable flow and reverse flows.
   The fan unit 20 as shown in Figures 11 and 12 and described above is shown in exploded
   form in Figure 16. The blower has an upper housing layer 50 and a lower housing layer
   51 that assemble to encapsulate a partitioning layer 52 and the impeller 24. The blades
10 of the impeller are open to the internal surfaces of the upper and lower housing layers.
   The partition layer 52 and the inner surface of the upper layer 50 are profiled to
   substantially enclose the impeller blades when the layers are assembled. This forms a
   first interior region ("upper region").  The upper housing layer 50 has the aperture 27
   that defines the gases entry into the blower. The lower housing layer defines a volute 53
15 where gases are collected before emission from the blower. Preferably the volute 53 also
   has a sealing inner wall 56. The wall 56 defines a space internal to the lower housing that
   may be used to house a motor. The lower housing layer 51 and the partition 52 form a
   second interior region ("lower region").
20 The outlet passage 28 of the fan unit 20 is connected to the volute 53 via an aperture 54.
   The aperture 54 and the volute wall 53 define a tongue 55 whereby gases circulating in
   the volute 53 are diverged into the outlet passage 28.
   The partition layer 52 is generally circular and substantially divides the upper housing 50
25 from the lower housing 51 thereby defining the upper and lower gases flow (interior)
   regions of the blower. To allow gases to flow from the upper region to the lower region
   an aperture (opening) 57 is located at, or close to the outer edge of the partition. The
   aperture 57 is shown more clearly in Figures 17 and 18. The aperture 57 is most
   preferably an opening formed by a cut-away in the partition layer 52, or some other
30 configuration/shape of the housing 51 such that the combination/arrangement of the
   partition layer 52 and the housing 51 creates an aperture/opening between the two.
   However, the aperture 57 may also comprise a flow path formed separately to the
   partition layer, such as a bulge or fluid channel formed in the walls of the upper 50 and
   lower housings 51. The cut-away could form a circumferential aperture 57 between the
35 housing 51 and partition 52, for example.         The curvature/centre of radius of the
   circumferential aperture 57 is preferable offset from the centre of radius of the partition
   52 or otherwise has a curvature that differs from that of the circumference of the
   partition 52 resulting in an eccentric or otherwise offset circumferential aperture 57

                                               - 21
   around the circumference of the partition 52 as shown in the Figures. This produces an
   aperture 57 with a crescent ("smile") shaped opening that spans a leading edge 58 to a
   trailing edge 59. However, the aperture may be of any shape with a gradual opening and
   closing relative to the plane of impeller rotation. The aperture allows for gradual supply
 5 of pressure and flow from the high static pressure source at the top of the blower. The
   angle of the aperture opening and closing is tuned to allow for reverse flow to return
   through the system in a stable fashion.        It also contributes to the blade pass noise
   reduction by not having a sharp break in geometry.           The aperture provides addition
   tongues, as well as that on the outlet. The gradual opening and closing of the aperture
10 ("tapers") provides tongues.     The maximum velocity at the outlet (e.g. 10m/s) is less
   than that at the tapers (e.g. 60m/s).       The gradual opening and closing with blades
   passing at that speed manages blade pass noise.        The width and length of the aperture
   57 controls the velocity in the lower (volute) section of the housing.   A wider and longer
   aperture increases velocity in the volute, for example.
15
   During operation of the blower, the impeller 24 is rotated in direction A - see Figure 17.
   The rotation of the impeller 24 draws gases through the inlet 27 and through the blades
   31 toward the outer wall of the upper housing layer 50. During operation, air B can also
   be drawn through the stator/rotor from the other side of the housing - see e.g. Figure
20 13. The air B drawn through can cool the motor. The shroudless impeller 24 enables air
   to be drawn through the motor in this manner thus providing cooling. The forward swept
   blade tips 31 impart strong rotational forces to the gases circulating in the upper region
   of the blower housing to thereby create high circulating gas speeds. Gases in the upper
   region will naturally flow through the aperture 57 to the lower region due to pressure
25 differential between regions. When the gases in the upper region, having a high velocity
   and low pressure, enter the lower region, specifically the volute 53, the gas velocity
   drops and the pressure increases. Typically the volute 53 has a greater volume than the
   upper region to help facilitate a gases pressure increase.
30 By dividing the blower internal space into two separate regions a number of advantages
   can be realised. In a conventional blower, high velocity gases leaving the impeller are
   incident to the edge, or tongue, that defines a physical boundary where gases are split
   from the volute to enter the outlet passage. High velocity gas flow at incident the tongue
   is turbulent and inefficient to blower performance. The turbulence caused by the tongue
35 reduces also introduces a source of noise. In contrast, dividing the housing of the
   preferred blower into the upper and lower regions reduces the impact caused by the
   tongue. The upper region allows the gases to circulate at a high speed. The gradual radial
   opening and closing of the preferred partition 57 provides a fluid path to the lower region

                                               - 22
   that is free from (or has reduced) aerodynamically turbulent edges. When circulating
   gases have entered the lower region, the enlarged volume of the volute encourages the
   gases to slow and increase pressure. The reduced gases velocity reduces the impact of
   turbulence normally caused by the tongue 55 to a low or negligible level. The blower unit
 5 is therefore able to operate across a wide pressure and flow range with substantially
   reduced noise output when compared to other blowers. A wider and longer aperture 57
   increases the flow rate of the lower region relative to the upper region. Therefore, the
   size of the aperture is selected according to the desired flow rate and pressure range of
   the blower unit.
10
   The motor used to drive the impeller 24 is shown in cross section in Figure 19. Preferably
   the motor is a brushless DC motor operated using sensorless vector control (also termed
   "field oriented control") controlled by a microcontroller,      microprocessor or similar
   controller 14 (such as shown in Figure 7) , for example, via the connector 131 mounted
15 to a PCB 130. The control can be tuned to suit a low inertia impeller.The central hub 32
   of the impeller 31 is engaged with a shaft 60 that extends from the motor 61. Mounted
   to the shaft is a plurality of, preferably small, magnetic segments to form a rotor 62. In
   one embodiment the magnet is 20mm in diameter, but more generally the diameter
   could be less than 20mm and preferably between 10mm to 15mm.           The magnet volume
20 is less than 1600mm3 and can be between 500mm3 and 1600mm3.                 Surrounding the
   rotor 62 is a laminated stator having a plurality of poles 63 and windings 68. The stator
   is mounted to the PCB or other substrate 130 and the windings coupled to the connector
   131. The windings are selectively energised by the microcontroller 14 via the connector
   131 to facilitate rotation of the rotor, and therefore the shaft 60 and impeller 31, about
25 the central axis defined by the centreline of the shaft 60.
   The shaft 60 is held within the motor by a bearing structure. Preferably the bearing
   structure has one or more bearings 64 and one or more bearing mounts 65. The bearing
   mounts 65 as shown engage with the bearings on an inner surface and with the stator on
30 an outer surface. The preferred engagement of the mount to the bearings and the stator
   is frictional. To promote a frictional engagement, the bearing mounts 65 are made of a
   soft, yet resilient and/or flexible material such as silicone rubber or other elastomeric
   material. The material can be low creep, temperature stable, low compression set with a
   high tan delta (highly viscous), highly damped.    Examples comprise:
35            0    Dough Moulding Rubbers like - NBR, Nitrile and Flouro silicone.
              *    Thermo Plastic Elastomers (TPE's) like Santoprene by Exxon
              *    Thermo Plastic Urethanes like Dynaplast by GLS Corporation
              e    Heat Cured Casting Urethanes like 10T90 by National Urethanes

                                                - 23
                   Multiple other cold cast rubbery compounds like RTV (Room Temperature
                   curing Vulcanites) by Dow Corning, Whacker and others.
   Such materials allow the mounts 65 to compress when installed, then expand into their
 5 chosen    location to be held in place by engagement expanded dimension with a
   restriction. The mounts 65 are optionally restrained by an overhang 66 formed as part of
   an electrical insulator/isolator or other frame structure ("stator frame") on the stator.
   Similarly, the bearings may be restrained by an overhang 67 formed as part of the
   bearing mount. Either or both of the overhangs may be discretely positioned about the
10 inner and outer annulus of the bearing mounts, or alternatively, extends around the
   circumference of the mount to define a recess in which the mount is located.
   The bearing mounts provide compliance to the rotatable shaft 60. As rotatable objects,
   such as the rotor 62, shaft 60 and impeller 31 usually suffer from some degree of
15 rotational imbalance, the bearing mounts are able to isolate inherent rotation induced
   vibration from the motor rotor. It has been found that combination of the lightweight,
   shroudless impeller having a low rotational inertia, as described above, together with the
   given compliance of the bearing mounts enables the rotor 62, shaft 60 and impeller 31 to
   be manufactured       and any     post manufacture    balancing process for the   rotating
20 components entirely omitted. These advantages benefit manufacturing costs and time.
   The lightweight nature of the impeller allows any imbalances to be compensated by the
   bearing mounts. A lightweight impeller also allows faster speed response of the impeller
   to changing conditions. Any unwanted fluctuations in pressure due the lack of shroud
   can be compensated for by quickly changing the impeller speed to return pressure to the
25 desired level.
   It should be noted that while Figure 19 shows the bearing mounts 65 mounted within the
   motor stator, they may equally be housed externally to the motor. For example, the
   mounts 65 may instead be mounted within journals formed within the blower housings,
30 or the gases supply unit 7. In such circumstances where the bearing mounts are located
   within the gases supply unit 7, it may also be advantageous to omit discrete structures
   for the blower housing 50, 51, instead mounding the inner surfaces of the housings
   directly to the internal structure of the gases supply unit 7.
35 To provide further vibration damping of the rotational components of the blower, the
   motor and impeller, can optionally be mounted on a compliant mounting device. Figure
   20 shows one embodiment of such a mounting device 70. In accordance with the
   preferred embodiment of the invention the mount is most preferably made from a soft,

                                               - 24
   flexible yet resilient material such as silicone rubber. The mounting device 70 has an
   internal recess 71 in which the stator is relieved. Preferably the internal recess is smaller
   than the outer surface of the motor to encourage an interference fit between these
   components. Figure 21 shows the motor 61 positioned within the mounting recess 71.
 5
   A plurality of projections 72 encircles the upper and lower surfaces of the mount 70. Each
   projection 72 preferably has a base recessed into the body of the mount to effectively
   increase the length whereby the projections are free to bend. The end of projection
   extends past the upper and lower surfaces of the mount to provide supporting leverage
10 to the mount and motor assembly. During operation of the motor, vibration caused by
   any imbalance of the rotational components is absorbed by each of the projections by
   allowing the body of the mount 70 to move relative to the surface on which the
   projections 72 are supported.
15 Figure 22A is a graph of the sound pressure level of a conventional fan unit tested in an
   anechoic chamber. Figure 22B is a graph of the sound pressure lever of a fan unit
   according to the present invention. It can be seen that the lightweight and shroudless
   impeller 24, the flexible bearing mounts 65 and flexible motor mount 70 contribute to a
   significantly reduced noise output across the tested spectral range of 50Hz to 10kHz.
20
   A further embodiment of the motor and impeller assembly is shown in Figures 23 to 28.
   Many aspects of this embodiment are the same as those in the previous embodiment.
   Features described in relation to the previous embodiment not described in this
   embodiment can be assumed to exist in this embodiment where appropriate.                 Like
25 features will use the same reference numerals as the previous embodiment. The motor
   used to drive the impeller 24 is shown in cross-section in Figure 27. Preferably the motor
   is a brushless DC       motor operated using sensorless vector control ("field oriented
   control") controlled by a microcontroller, microprocessor or similar controller 14 (such as
   shown in Figure 7), for example, via a connector 231 mounted to a PCB/substrate 230
30 (such as shown in Figure 23).      The control can be tuned to suit a low inertia impeller.
   Referring to Figures 23, 24 and 27, the central hub 32 of the impeller 24 is engaged with
   a shaft 60 that extends from the motor 61. Mounted to the shaft is a plurality of,
   preferably small, magnetic segments to form a rotor 62. Surrounding the rotor 62 is a
   laminated stator 241 having an annular outer portion 242 and a plurality of poles 243
35 and windings 68. The stator is mounted to the PCB or other substrate 230 and the
   windings    68   coupled   to the   connector   231.  The   stator  241   has  an   electrical
   insulator/isolator (forming a stator frame) 270a, 270b covering the top and bottom of the
   annular portion 242 and the poles 243. Each winding 68 is preferably assembled on the

                                              - 25
   insulator 270a, 270b over each pole 243.      Protrusions for engagement and retainment
   are provided around the circumference 271 extending upwards and at the end of the
   poles extending upwards 272a and downwards 272b.
 5 Referring to the plan view of one of the laminations 240 in Figure 24, each lamination
   comprises a annular outer portion 242 and a pole portion 243 extending radially inwards.
   The edge 244 of each pole portion 243 includes a wave shape.             The wave shape
   comprises two concave portions 244a, 244b meeting at a central apex 244c. Referring to
   Figure 25, when a plurality of the laminations 240 are stacked to create the stator 241,
10 each pole 243 has an inner radial face 250 with a wave shape as shown in Figure 25.
   The face 250 comprises two concave portions 250a, 250b meeting at a central apex
   250c.   This arrangement reduces cogging.      The stator and/or rotor can have a skewed
   magentisation.    The windings are selectively energised using the controller 14 via the
   connector 231 to facilitate rotation of the rotor, and therefore the shaft 60 and impeller
15 31, about the central axis defined by the centreline of the shaft 60.
   The shaft 60 is held within the motor by a bearing structure. Preferably the bearing
   structure has one or more bearings 64 and one or more bearing mounts 260 (see Figure
   26). The bearing mounts 260 as shown engage with the bearings 64 on an inner surface
   261 and with the stator 241/insulator 270a/270b on an outer surface as shown in Figure
20 27. The bearing mount 260 comprises a main annular body 265 that curves from a low
   point at a central aperture 263 to a higher point at the outer circumference 262. The
   outer circumference comprises an engaging lip 264, preferably with a chamfer 264a on
   the intersection of the outer circumference 262 with the main annular body 265.       The
   intersection of the inner aperture 263 with the inner circumference 261 of the main body
25 265 also preferably has a chamfer 261a.       An annular wall/boss 266 extends upwardly
   from the main annular body 265 at the inner aperture 263. The top portion 267 of the
   annular wall 266 has an overhanging engagement lip 268. The intersection of the lip 268
   with the annular wall 266 and with the overhanging lip side wall 268a are preferably
   chamfered 268b, 268c. The preferred engagement of the bearing mount 260 to the
30 bearings 64 and the stator 241 is frictional. To promote a frictional engagement, the
   bearing mounts 260 are made of a soft, yet resilient and/or flexible material such as
   silicone rubber or other elastomeric material. The material can be low creep, temperature
   stable, low compression set with a high tan delta (highly viscous), highly damped.
   Possible materials were describe in relation to the previous embodiment. Such materials
35 allow the mounts 260 to compress when installed, then expand into their chosen location
   to be held in place by engagement expanded dimension with a restriction. They also
   provide compliance.

                                               - 26
   Figure 27 shows the bearing mounts in solid lines in the uninstalled/unassembled state,
   with an upward curvature.       The dotted lines show the bearing mounts 260 in the
   installed/assembled state, clipped in to the stator/insulator 279a, 270b. In the installed
   state (also called engaged state or configureation) the annular body is engaged with the
 5 stator 241 and/or stator frame 270a, 270b and the annular body 265 is coerced from the
   curved state (shown in solid lines) into an engaged (flat) configuration (shown in dotted
   lines) that provides preload to the one or more bearings by action of the bearing mount
   providing bias provided by the resilient/flexible body acting on the stator and/or stator
   frame and the bearings. The mounts 260 are optionally restrained by an overhang 272c,
10 272d formed on the insulator 270a, 270b. Similarly, the bearings 64 may be restrained
   by an overhang 268 formed as part of the boss 266 on the bearing mount 260. Either or
   both of the overhangs may be discretely positioned about the inner and outer annulus of
   the bearing mounts, or alternatively, extends around the circumference of the mount to
   define a recess in which the mount is located. The impeller/shaft/rotor is assembled into
15 the stator 241 by assembling the bearings 64 on the shaft 60, assembling the bearing
   mounts 260 on the bearings 64 and manipulating the bearing mounts 260 (by hand, jig
   or other means) so they engage with the stator insulator 270a, 270b at each pole 243. In
   an alternative embodiment, the bearing mounts 260 are not coupled directly to the stator
   or insulator 270a/241 but rather are coupled to another structure such as a housing. Any
20 coupling arrangement with any suitable structure can be provided which provides the
   required functions as set out below.
   The bearing mounts 260 provide compliance to the rotatable shaft 60. As rotatable
   objects, such as the rotor 62, shaft 60 and impeller 24 usually suffer from some degree
25 of rotational imbalance, the bearing mounts are able to isolate inherent rotation induced
   vibration from the motor rotor. It has been found that combination of the lightweight,
   shroudless impeller having a low rotational inertia, as described above, together with the
   given compliance of the bearing mounts enables the rotor 62, shaft 60 and impeller 24 to
   be manufactured      and any     post manufacture    balancing   process for the  rotating
30 components entirely omitted. These advantages benefit manufacturing costs and time.
   The lightweight nature of the impeller 24 allows any imbalances/misalignment to be
   compensated by the bearing mounts 260 - the arrangement is self aligning due to the
   bearing mount compliance (due to resilience and/or flexibility, for example). The bearing
   mount construction, including the geometry and and material, also provides axial preload
35 on the bearings, e.g of up to 7 Newtons.       The annular nature of the bearing provides
   consistent/even preload around the bearing 64. The resilien/flexible curved annular body
   allows the bearing to be installed in place and provide the preload. The annular nature of
   the bearing mount 260 provides for even preload around the bearing, while the low creep

                                               - 27
   construction material maintains preload. The material of the bearing mounts 260 is also
   preferably a viscoelastic damping material that provides damping, which reduces the
   likelihood of resonance during operation of the motor.       Such a viscoelastic material can
   also provide the required resilience/flexibility to provide the preload. An example of such
 5 a material is a Thermo Plastic Urethane like Dynaplast by GLS Corporation.              Other
   materials resilient and/or flexible materials mentioned above for the bearing mount 260
   could be adapted to provide the required damping by adding mica. A lightweight impeller
   also allows faster speed response of the impeller to changing conditions. Any unwanted
   fluctuations in pressure due the lack of shroud can be compensated for by quickly
10 changing the impeller speed to return pressure to the desired level. The bearing mounts
   also provide vibration isolation.
   To provide further vibration damping of the rotational components of the blower, the
   motor and impeller, can optionally be mounted on a compliant mounting device (motor
15 mount) 280. Figures 23, 27 and 28 shows one embodiment of such a mounting device
   280. In accordance with the preferred embodiment of the invention the mount is most
   preferably made from a soft, flexible yet resilient material such as silicone rubber. The
   mounting device 280 has an annular body 282 with upper and lower engaging lips 282a,
   282b that define an internal recess 281 in which the stator 241 is disposed. Preferably
20 the internal recess 281 is smaller than the outer surface of the stator to encourage an
   interference fit between these components. Figure 27 shows the motor positioned within
   the mounting recess 281.
   A plurality of projections 283 encircles the upper and lower surfaces of the mount 280.
25 The end of projection extends past the upper and lower surfaces of the mount to provide
   supporting leverage to the mount and motor assembly. During operation of the motor,
   vibration caused by any imbalance of the rotational components is absorbed by each of
   the projections by allowing the body of the mount 280 to move relative to the surface on
   which the projections 283 are supported.
30
   The combination of various features of the present invention provide advantages, which
   can be achieved using a single impeller. Using a lightweight/low inertia impeller (e.g. by
   removing some or all of the shroud and/or reducing blade material) reduces imbalance of
   the impeller due to manufacturing tolerances.       Previously, after manufacture and during
35 assembly of a blower, it has been necessary to remove/add material to the impeller to
   improve balancing.      The lightweight nature of the impeller means that any small
   imbalance can be tolerated without requiring rectification.       Coupled to this, where the
   imbalance is not small enough, the resilient/flexible bearing structure mounts 65 and/or

                                                - 28
   stator mount can compensate for any imbalance in the impeller.              As the impeller is
   lightweight enough, any imbalance is of a small enough magnitude to be compensated
   for by the bearing structure mounts 65, without the need for altering the weight of the
   impeller during assembly.
 5
   The lightweight construction also allows for a larger diameter impeller, which in turn
   provides higher tip speed for a particular RPM. This allows for lower RPM operation of the
   blower while still achieving the required pressure (which is dependent on tip speed).
   Having a lower RPM reduces vibration to an acceptable level, or to a level that can be
10 compensated for by the bearing structure and/or stator mount.                  The lightweight
   construction of the impeller as mentioned previously enables the larger impeller as it
   provides lower inertia that achieves the required pressures/response.           That is, lower
   torque is required to speed up and slow down the impeller to reach the required tip
   speeds/pressures. This improves dynamic performance (response).             In addition to this,
15 small magnets in the motor (combined with the bearing structure) remove the need for
   balancing during assembly, improve dynamic performance.
   The resilient/flexible bearing structure allows for self-alignment, compliance, damping
   and preload of the impeller and shaft assembly.         This makes assembly easier, and in
20 combination with the lightweight/low inertia impeller reduce or negates the need for
   balancing modifications during assembly, as mentioned previously. The bearing structure
   provides for relaxed tolerances during         manufacture as it compensates for larger
   tolerances.    The bearing structure also isolates and/or damps vibrations, also allowing
   high RPM speeds of the impeller where necessary.         The stator frame/motor mount also
25 provides vibration isolation.
   The partition that separates the blower into first and second regions separates out the
   high velocity region to reduce noise.       This allows for and maintains a constant high
   velocity of flow while diffusing the velocity to pressure.
30
   In general, the following advantages are provided for by the combination of one or more
   features as follows:
         Advantage                                       Features providing advantage
                                                          Low RPM (due to large diameter
         Low noise impellerimelr                         impeller)
                                                          Partition to provide two regions, one
                                                         containing the impeller

                                             - 29
                                                      Low cogging torque
                                                      Sensorless vector drive/field oriented
                                                      control
                                                      Low inertia impeller (achieved
        Fast responding blower                        through shroudless/lightweight
                                                      construction)
                                                      Small magnet with diameter less than
                                                      20mm
                                                      Sensorless vector drive
                                                      No balancing required during
        Lower cost
                                                      assembly
                                                      Small volume magnet
                                                      Simple bearing mount
                                                      One piece impeller
        Assembly without balancing                    Low inertia impeller/lightweight
                                                      Flexible/resilient bearing structure
                                                      Motor mount/stator frame isolator
                                                      Low RPM impeller
                                                      Small magnet with diameter less than
                                                      20mm
                                                      One piece impeller
        Large diameter impeller/Low RPM               Low inertia impeller
  Although the present invention has been described in terms of a certain embodiment,
  other embodiments apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art also are within the scope
  of this invention.   Thus, various changes and modifications may be made without
5 departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.    For instance, various components
  may be repositioned as desired.        Moreover, not all of the features, aspects and
  advantages are necessarily required to practice the present invention.      Accordingly, the
  scope of the present invention is intended to be defined only by the claims that follow.

                                             - 30
CLAIMS:
1.       A pressurised gases source comprising:
          an impeller driven by a motor within a housing, the housing having a gases inlet,
a gases outlet and a partition to define first and second interior regions, wherein the first
region is defined by the housing and the partition and comprises the gases inlet and the
impeller, and the second region is defined by the housing and the partition and comprises
the gases outlet,
          wherein the first and second regions are fluidly connected by an opening formed
in or by the partition, the opening having a shape with a gradual opening and a gradual
closing relative to a plane of rotation of the impeller.
2.       The pressurised gases source according to claim 1, wherein the impeller is a
lightweight impeller that is shroudless or otherwise has reduced material.
3.       The pressurised gases source according to claim 2 wherein the lightweight
impeller is formed in one piece.
4.       The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the
impeller is a centrifugal impeller rotatable about a central axis.
5.       The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 1 to 4, further
comprising a volute in the second interior region.
6.       The pressurised gases source according to claim 5, wherein the volute has a
tongue at least partially defining a transition between the volute and the gases outlet,
the tongue located in the second interior region.
7.       The pressurised gases source according to claim 5 or 6, wherein the outlet is
connected to the volute via an aperture and the aperture and a wall of the volute define
a tongue whereby gases circulating in the volute are diverged into the outlet.
8.       The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein the
volute has a sealing inner wall defining a space internal to the housing to house a motor.
9.       The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the
outlet is an outlet passage and the outlet passage is tangential or radial to the impeller.

                                            - 31
10.      The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the
housing comprises an upper housing and a lower housing, the partition being generally
circular and dividing the upper housing from the lower housing thereby defining the first
and second interior regions.
11.      The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein
the opening is located at or close to an outer edge of the partition.
12.      The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein
the opening is formed by a cut-away in the partition or an arrangement of the partition
and the housing to create the opening between the partition and housing.
13.      The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein a
curvature or centre of radius of the opening is offset from a centre of radius of the
partition or otherwise has a curvature that differs from that of the circumference of the
partition resulting in an eccentric or otherwise offset circumferential opening around the
circumference of the partition.
14.      The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein
the opening comprises a crescent shaped opening.
15.      The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein
the opening allows for a gradual supply of pressure and flow from the first region to the
second region.
16.      The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 1 to 15, wherein an
angle of the gradual opening and the gradual closing of the opening allows for reverse
flow to return from the second region to the first region in a stable fashion.
17.      The pressurised gases source according to any one of claims 1 to 16, wherein
the gradual opening and gradual closing of the opening is without a sharp break in
geometry.
18.      A CPAP machine comprising a pressurised gases source according to any one of
claims 1 to 14.

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+2737><U+261E>
                                       <U+2738>
                                               <U+273A>
                   <U+2739><U+261E>
                                                   <U+270C><U+270D>
                                                   <U+270E><U+270F>
                                           <U+2736>
                        <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706>
                         <U+272D><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271E> <U+275B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                     <U+273B>
                                                   <U+273A>
                                          <U+2739><U+2739>           <U+270E><U+270D>
                                                       <U+270E><U+270F>
              <U+2748> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704> <U+260E><U+260E><U+2706><U+2704>
                                               <U+2736>
                           <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>         <U+274B>
                            <U+272D><U+271D><U+271E><U+271F><U+2720><U+271E> <U+275B><U+271E><U+2721><U+261B>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
              <U+274B>
                      <U+274B>
    <U+272D>
                  <U+272D>
    <U+271E>
              <U+2701>
                  <U+271E>
                      <U+2701>
    <U+271F>
                  <U+271F>
    <U+2720>
              <U+2702>
                  <U+2720>
    <U+2721>
                      <U+2702>
                  <U+2721>
                          <U+2738>
    <U+271F>
                  <U+271F>
                              <U+270D>
              <U+2704>
                      <U+2704>
    <U+275B>
                              <U+270E>
                  <U+275B>
    <U+271F>
                              <U+270F>
              <U+260E>
                  <U+271F>
                      <U+260E>
    <U+261B>
                  <U+261B>
    <U+261E>
                  <U+261E>
              <U+271D>
                      <U+2706>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                  <U+274B>
       <U+274B>
                                  <U+2701>
       <U+2701>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2739>
       <U+2702>
                                                      <U+270D>
                                  <U+2704>
                                                      <U+270E>
       <U+2704>
                                                      <U+270F>
                                  <U+260E>
       <U+260E>
                                  <U+274B>
              <U+273A>
              <U+273A>
                                      <U+2736>
                                      <U+273A>
                                          <U+2702>
                      <U+2736>
                              <U+2736>
                      <U+273A>
                              <U+273A>
                                              <U+2736>
                          <U+2702>
                              <U+2736>
                                              <U+273A>
                                              <U+2736>
                  <U+2736>
                                                  <U+2736>
                  <U+273A>
                                                  <U+273A>
                  <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2701>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                                <U+2736>
                                              <U+2702>
                                                      <U+273E>
                          <U+2736>
                          <U+2736>
              <U+274B>
                                                              <U+273A>
                                                              <U+270D>
                                                              <U+270E>
              <U+2701>
                                                              <U+270F>
              <U+2702>
              <U+2704>
              <U+260E>
                  <U+274B>
                      <U+273D>
                                  <U+2748>
                              <U+2736>
                              <U+2701>
                                  <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2738>
                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+2704>
                                  <U+260E>
                                  <U+2701>
                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+2706>
                                  <U+271D>
                                      <U+273D>
                                  <U+260E>
                                                  <U+273C>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                      <U+2736>
                      <U+2736>
                                      <U+2736>
                                      <U+273A>
                                                      <U+2736>
                                              <U+2736>
                                                      <U+273C>
                                              <U+2738>
              <U+274B>
              <U+2701>
                                                              <U+273B>
                                                                  <U+270D>
              <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                  <U+270F>
              <U+2704>
              <U+260E>
                  <U+274B>
                                                          <U+2736>
                                                  <U+273E>
                                                          <U+273D>
                          <U+273D>
                                          <U+2738>
                                  <U+2736>
                                  <U+2736>
                              <U+273D>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                              <U+2748>
                                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+2736>
                      <U+2736>
                      <U+273E>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2738>
              <U+274B>
                                                                      <U+270F>
              <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                      <U+270E>
              <U+2702>                                                       <U+270F>
              <U+2704>
              <U+260E>
                  <U+274B>
                                          <U+2702>
                              <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2702>
                          <U+2736>
                                                  <U+273C>
                                                          <U+2702>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2702>
                          <U+2736>
                                                      <U+2702>
              <U+274B>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                                          <U+273D>
                                                          <U+270D>
              <U+2701>
                                                          <U+270E>
                                                          <U+270F>
              <U+2702>
              <U+2704>
              <U+260E>
                                              <U+2702>
              <U+274B>
                                              <U+2702>
                                          <U+2702>
                                  <U+2702>
                                      <U+273C>
                      <U+2702>
                  <U+2736>

                                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                    <U+2706>   <U+2706>   <U+260E>   <U+2704>   <U+2702>               <U+2701>       <U+274B>
            <U+273C>
                <U+2702>
<U+273A>
    <U+2702>
                                                                     <U+273D>
                                                                         <U+2702>
        <U+2702>
                                        <U+270F>   <U+270E>   <U+270D>       <U+273E>

                                                        <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                <U+2706>   <U+260E>   <U+2704>       <U+2702>           <U+2701>       <U+274B>
            <U+274B>
                                                             <U+273D>
                                                                 <U+2702>
<U+273A>
    <U+2702>
        <U+2702>
                            <U+270F>       <U+270E>   <U+270D>   <U+2736>   <U+270C>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                              <U+2702>
                          <U+273E>
                                              <U+2702>
                                          <U+273D>
                      <U+2736>
                      <U+2738>
                      <U+2736>
              <U+274B>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                  <U+2736>
                                                                  <U+270C>
                  <U+2738>
                                                                  <U+270D>
              <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                  <U+270F>
              <U+2702>
                                                              <U+275D>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                          <U+2701>
              <U+2704>
                                                          <U+2706>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2747>
                                                              <U+2701>
              <U+260E>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                          <U+260E>
              <U+2706>
              <U+274B>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+273A>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
      <U+274B>                               <U+274B>
      <U+2701>                               <U+2701>
      <U+2702>                               <U+2702>
      <U+2704>                               <U+2704>
      <U+260E>                               <U+260E>
      <U+2706>                               <U+2706>
          <U+2701>                           <U+274B>
                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                                  <U+2746>
                                          <U+2738>
                                              <U+2702>
                  <U+2738>
                                                      <U+2738>
                      <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2736>
              <U+2738>
              <U+2736>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                  <U+2702>               <U+2738>
                              <U+2701>
                          <U+2738>
                          <U+2738>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
      <U+274B>                           <U+274B>
      <U+2701>                           <U+2701>
      <U+2702>                           <U+2702>
      <U+2704>                           <U+2704>
      <U+260E>                           <U+260E>
      <U+2706>                           <U+2706>
          <U+2701>                       <U+274B>
      <U+274B>                           <U+274B>
                                                                              <U+270C>
                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                              <U+270E>
                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                      <U+2738>
                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                      <U+2746>
                                          <U+2738>
                                              <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2738>
                                                          <U+2736>
              <U+2738>
              <U+2736>
                      <U+2738>
                                      <U+2738>
                      <U+273A>
                                      <U+273A>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2738>
                              <U+2702>                   <U+2738>
                          <U+2701>
                  <U+2738>
                  <U+2738>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
      <U+274B>                       <U+274B>
      <U+2701>                       <U+2701>
      <U+2702>                       <U+2702>
      <U+2704>                       <U+2704>
      <U+260E>                       <U+260E>
      <U+2706>                       <U+2706>
          <U+2701>                   <U+274B>
      <U+274B>                       <U+274B>
                                                                      <U+270C>
                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                      <U+270E>
                                                                      <U+270F>
                                                  <U+2738>
                                                  <U+2736>
                                                                  <U+2746>
                                      <U+2738>
                                          <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2738>
                                                      <U+2736>
              <U+2738>
              <U+2736>
                                  <U+2738>
                                  <U+273A>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2701>
                                              <U+2738>
                          <U+2702>                   <U+2738>
                      <U+2701>
                  <U+2738>
                  <U+2738>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                  <U+273A>
                  <U+2701>
                                      <U+2702>
                          <U+273A>
                                  <U+273D>
                          <U+273A>
                                                          <U+2738>
                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                      <U+2736>
              <U+274B>
              <U+2701>
                                                                                                  <U+270C>
                                                                                                  <U+273A>
              <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                  <U+270E>
              <U+2704>
                                                                                                  <U+270F>
              <U+260E>
              <U+2706>
              <U+274B>
                                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                          <U+273C>
                                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                          <U+273A>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                          <U+2736>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                      <U+273A>
                                              <U+273C>
                              <U+273A>
                              <U+2738>
                      <U+273A>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                      <U+2736>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                          <U+273A>
                          <U+273C>
                                                          <U+273A>
                                                          <U+273E>
              <U+274B>
                                                                  <U+270C>
              <U+2701>
                                                              <U+273B>
                      <U+273A>
                      <U+273D>
                                                                  <U+270D>
              <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                      <U+2746>
              <U+2704>
              <U+260E>
              <U+2706>
                  <U+274B>
                                          <U+2702>
                                      <U+2701>
                                              <U+273A>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+2702>
                              <U+273D>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                      <U+273A>
                                      <U+273C>
                          <U+273A>
                          <U+273D>
              <U+274B>
              <U+2701>
              <U+2702>
                                                              <U+270C>
                                                              <U+270F>
                                  <U+2746>
                                                              <U+270D>
              <U+2704>
                                                              <U+270E>
                                                              <U+270F>
              <U+260E>
                                                          <U+273A>
              <U+2706>
                                                          <U+273E>
              <U+274B>
                                              <U+2702>
                                          <U+2701>
                      <U+2702>
                  <U+273D>
                                                  <U+273A>
                                                      <U+2702>
                              <U+273A>
                              <U+2736>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                       <U+2738><U+2737>
                        <U+273B><U+273B>
                                      <U+2738><U+2736>
                                 <U+273B><U+271E>   <U+273B><U+2739>
              <U+273B><U+271F>                           <U+273B><U+273A>
                                                <U+273B><U+273B>   <U+273B><U+271F>
                                                          <U+273B><U+2736>   <U+270C>
                                                               <U+270D>
                                                               <U+273D>
                                                               <U+270E>
                                                               <U+270F>
                                                          <U+273B><U+2738>
                                           <U+273B><U+2737>
                   <U+273B><U+273A>
                                 <U+273B><U+2739>
                         <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+2706><U+271D>

                               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>
<U+274B>
                                <U+271E><U+2736>
         <U+271E><U+2737>
                          <U+271E><U+2737>
                                <U+271E><U+273B>
              <U+270F>
              <U+270D>
              <U+270E>   <U+273E>   <U+270C>

                                 <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E> <U+274B><U+2706>
            <U+271E><U+273B>
             <U+270F>   <U+270E>   <U+270D>   <U+2736>   <U+270E>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>          <U+2746><U+2708><U+2761>r<U+275B><U+2763><U+2761> <U+2759><U+2666><U+2709> <U+275E> Pr<U+2761>ss<U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767> <U+2666><U+2762> <U+275E><U+2761><U+2708><U+2710><U+2701><U+2761>                                                   <U+2746><U+2708><U+2761>r<U+275B><U+2763><U+2761> <U+2759><U+2666><U+2709> <U+275E> Pr<U+2761>ss<U+2709>r<U+2761> <U+25B2><U+2761><U+2708><U+2761><U+2767> <U+2666><U+2762> <U+275E><U+2761><U+2708><U+2710><U+2701><U+2761>
        <U+2738><U+273A><U+2733><U+2735>                                                                                     <U+2738><U+273A><U+2733><U+2735>
        <U+2738><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735>                                                                                     <U+2738><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735>
        <U+2737><U+273A><U+2733><U+2735>                                                                                     <U+2737><U+273A><U+2733><U+2735>
  <U+272E>                                                                                         <U+272E>
  <U+2747><U+261B>                                                                                        <U+2747><U+261B>
  <U+272D><U+2712>    <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735>                                                                                <U+272D><U+2712>   <U+2737><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735>
  <U+270D><U+2711>                                                                                        <U+270D><U+2711>
  <U+270D><U+270F>                                                                                        <U+270D><U+270F>
        <U+2736><U+273A><U+2733><U+2735>                                                                                     <U+2736><U+273A><U+2733><U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
  <U+270D><U+270C>                                                                                        <U+270D><U+270C>                                                                                    <U+270C>
  <U+2721><U+270E>                                                                                        <U+2721><U+270E>                                                                                    <U+270D>
  <U+270E><U+270D>                                                                                        <U+270E><U+270D>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
  <U+270C>     <U+2736><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735>                                                                                <U+270C>    <U+2736><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
  <U+261E>                                                                                         <U+261E>
  <U+261B><U+2665>                                                                                        <U+261B><U+2665>
  <U+2721><U+2720>      <U+273A><U+2733><U+2735>                                                                               <U+2721><U+2720>
  <U+271F>                                                                                         <U+271F>     <U+273A><U+2733><U+2735>
          <U+2735><U+2733><U+2735>                                                                                     <U+2735><U+2733><U+2735>
         <U+2732><U+273A><U+2733><U+2735>                                                                                     <U+2732><U+273A><U+2733><U+2735>
       <U+2732><U+2736><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735>                                                                                     <U+2732><U+2736><U+2735><U+2733><U+2735>
                <U+2704><U+2702> <U+260E><U+273B> <U+273D><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2702> <U+2704><U+273B> <U+2704><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2706> <U+2704><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2704> <U+2704><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2704> <U+2766> <U+2766>   <U+2766>     <U+2766><U+2702>          <U+2766>                         <U+2704><U+2702> <U+260E><U+273B> <U+273D><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2704> <U+271D><U+2702> <U+2704><U+273B> <U+2704><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2702> <U+2702><U+2706> <U+2704><U+2704> <U+2704><U+2704> <U+2704><U+260E> <U+2704><U+2704> <U+2766> <U+2766>   <U+2766> <U+2766>           <U+2766>
                           <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+271D> <U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2739> <U+2702> <U+273B> <U+273D> <U+2766><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2706> <U+2766><U+271D> <U+271D><U+271E><U+2702>     <U+271E><U+2706><U+260E> <U+2766><U+2739> <U+2766><U+2702> <U+271E><U+260E><U+273B> <U+2766><U+273D> <U+2766><U+2704><U+2706>                           <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+2706> <U+271D> <U+271D> <U+260E> <U+2739> <U+2702> <U+273B> <U+273D> <U+2766><U+2706> <U+271D><U+2702><U+271E> <U+273B><U+271E><U+2706> <U+2766><U+271D> <U+271D><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2706><U+2702><U+271E> <U+2766><U+2739> <U+2766><U+2702> <U+260E><U+271E><U+273B> <U+2766><U+273D> <U+2766><U+2704>
                                                        <U+2706>                                                                                        <U+2706>           <U+260E>                <U+2706>
                                                                                                                                   <U+274B><U+2713><U+2714>q<U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+275D><U+2461> <U+2717><U+274D><U+2462><U+2718>
                                      <U+274B><U+2713><U+2714>q<U+2715><U+2714><U+2716><U+275D><U+2461> <U+2717><U+274D><U+2462><U+2718>
                            <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                    <U+274B><U+274B><U+2719>                                                              <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>                     <U+274B><U+274B><U+271A>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                                        <U+273D>
                                                      <U+2702>
                                              <U+2702>
                                          <U+273C>
                                          <U+2736>
              <U+274B>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
              <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+270D>
                                                                                          <U+270E>
                                                                                          <U+270F>
              <U+2702>
              <U+2704>
              <U+260E>
                              <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2738>
                          <U+273C>
                                                                              <U+2702>
                          <U+2736>
                  <U+274B>
              <U+274B>
                      <U+2736>
                      <U+273D>
                                      <U+2702>
                                  <U+273C>
                                  <U+2736>
                                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2701>
                                                                      <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                  <U+2738>
                                                          <U+2738>
                                                                  <U+2736>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                            <U+274B>
                                      <U+2701>
                                      <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                      <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                      <U+260E>
                                          <U+274B>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                          <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                              <U+2701>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>                               <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                  <U+2702>
                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                              <U+273A>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                              <U+2704>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                      <U+273A>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                              <U+260E>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                          <U+275D>
                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                  <U+274B>
                                                                                      <U+2701>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2738>
              <U+273A>
                                                              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2701>
                                                                              <U+2701>
                                                      <U+2738>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+2701>
                                              <U+2736>
                                                  <U+2702>
                          <U+2702>
                      <U+2736>
                      <U+2701>
                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                              <U+2737>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                              <U+273C>
              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2739>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270E>
              <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                      <U+270F>
              <U+2704>
                                          <U+2702>
                                      <U+2736>
              <U+260E>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                      <U+273D>
                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                                      <U+273D>
                  <U+274B>
                                                                                                                          <U+275D>
              <U+274B>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+2736>
                              <U+2736>
                                                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                          <U+2702>
                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                      <U+2736>
                                                      <U+2736>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                                                      <U+273A>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+2736>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>                                 <U+2738><U+2737>
                                                                 <U+2737><U+2739>
                                            <U+273B><U+273B>
              <U+273B><U+271F>                                           <U+2737><U+273B><U+273B>           <U+273B><U+271F>
                   <U+2737><U+271E><U+2737><U+261E>
                            <U+2737><U+273B><U+2736>            <U+273B><U+2739>     <U+2737><U+273B><U+2736>            <U+2737><U+271E><U+2737>                          <U+270E>
                                                                  <U+2737><U+271E><U+2737><U+261E>           <U+2737><U+271E><U+273B><U+261E>
                                                                                              <U+270D>
                                                                                              <U+273A>
                                                                                  <U+2737><U+2739><U+2736>         <U+270E>
                                                                                              <U+270F>
                                                                                        <U+2737><U+271F><U+273B>
                                                                                    <U+2737><U+2739><U+2738>
                                                                          <U+2737><U+271E><U+273B><U+2739>
                                                               <U+2737><U+271E><U+2737><U+2739>
                            <U+2737><U+273B><U+273B>                                          <U+2737><U+271E><U+2736>
                     <U+2737><U+271E><U+2737><U+2739>         <U+2737><U+273B><U+2736>                 <U+273B><U+2737>     <U+2737><U+271E><U+2737><U+2737>
                                                <U+2737><U+273B><U+2736>
                                           <U+273B><U+2739>
                                  <U+274B> <U+2701><U+2702><U+2704><U+260E>   <U+274B><U+274B>

<removed-date>
<removed-apn>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                                                          <U+2702>
                                                      <U+273D>
                                                      <U+2738>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                              <U+273D>
                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                          <U+2702>
                                      <U+273D>
                                      <U+2738>
              <U+274B>
                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                      <U+2738>
              <U+2701>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                                                                                              <U+273B>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
              <U+2702>
                                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270D>
                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270E>
                                                                                              <U+2737>
              <U+2704>
                                                                                                                                                                  <U+270F>
                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
              <U+260E>
                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                                      <U+2738>
                  <U+274B>
                          <U+2702>
              <U+274B>
                      <U+273D>
                                  <U+2702>
                              <U+273D>
                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                                                      <U+2736>
                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                                                                                                  <U+2702>
                                                              <U+273D>
                                                                                                                              <U+273D>
                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                                              <U+2738>
                                                                                                          <U+2702>
                                                                                                      <U+273D>
                                                                                                      <U+2738>

                                                                                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
<U+274B>                               <U+260E>               <U+2704>           <U+2702>       <U+2701>       <U+274B>
        <U+274B>       <U+274B>
                        <U+260E>               <U+2704>               <U+2702>       <U+2701>       <U+274B>
    <U+274B>       <U+274B>
                    <U+270F>       <U+270E>       <U+270D>       <U+270F>       <U+270E>

