ABSTRACT
Provided in one embodiment is an herbal compositions for the prevention or treatment of
urogenital system disorders including urinary incontinence, overactive bladder, enuresis, benign
prostatic hyperplasia, nocturia, cystitis, urinary calculi, or a urinary tract infection. Specifically
one embodiment provides compositions that contain Crateva nurvala,Equisetum arvense, and
Lindera aggregata and methods of use thereof.

       HERBAL COMPOSITIONS FOR THE PREVENTION OR TREATMENT OF
                URINARY INCONTINENCE AND OVERACTIVE BLADDER
[0001]     This application is a divisional of Australian Patent Application No. 2012394172, filed
on 21 December 2012, and is related to International Patent Application No.
PCT/1B2012/003145, filed on 21 December 2012, and claims priority from U.S. Provisional
Patent Application No. 61/580,125 filed on 23 December 2011, each of which is incorporated
herein by reference in its entirety.
                                            BACKGROUND
[0002]    Urinary incontinence (UI) with urinary urgency and/or frequency and Overactive
Bladder (OAB) are common problems affecting one in five people in the United States. The
total affected population is difficult to quantify as it is often under-reported. NIH and the Simon
Foundation estimates suggest that between 17 and 33 million people in the United States are
affected. NAFC (National Association for Continence) estimates on the basis of multiple
studies and expert opinion that 25 million adult Americans experience transient or chronic
urinary incontinence.
[0003]    Bladder weakness affects 25% of reproductive age women, 50% of postmenopausal
women, and 50%- 7 5% of women in nursing homes. In men, 60% over the age of 60 experience
benign prostate enlargement and associated OAB symptoms. Bladder problems remain
underdiagnosed and under-reported.
[0004]    Bladder control problems can occur for many reasons. Temporary bladder control
problems may be caused by, for example, urinary tract infections, vaginal infections or
irritation, constipation, and certain medicines. Longer lasting or chronic incontinence can be
caused by, for example, both overactive and weak bladder muscles, obstruction from an
enlarged prostate, damage to nerves that control the bladder from diseases such as multiple
sclerosis or Parkinson's disease, or diseases such as arthritis that can make walking painful and
slow.
[0005]     The basic types of bladder control problems include urinary urgency, urinary
frequency, incontinence (bladder accidents with involuntary loss of urine) and nocturia (having
to get out of bed at night for the toilet). Overactive bladder in many cases refer to both urinary
frequency and urgency.
[0006]     There are multiple types of urinary incontinence, which include, for example, stress
incontinence, urge incontinence, overflow incontinence, and functional incontinence. Stress
incontinence happens when urine leaks during exercise, coughing, sneezing, laughing, lifting
                                                    1

heavy objects, or other body movements that put pressure on the bladder. It is the most common
type of bladder control problem in younger and middle-age women. In some cases, it is related
to the effects of childbirth. It may also begin around the time of menopause.
[0007]     In some embodiments, urge incontinence can happen when a person cannot hold his or
her urine long enough to get to the toilet in time. Healthy people can have urge incontinence, but
it is often found in people who have diabetes, stroke, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease,
or multiple sclerosis. It is also sometimes an early sign of bladder cancer.
[0008]     In some embodiments, overflow incontinence can happen when small amounts of urine
leak from a bladder that is always full. A man can have trouble emptying his bladder if an
enlarged prostate is blocking the urethra. Diabetes and spinal cord injury can also cause this type
of incontinence. Functional incontinence can happen in many older people who have normal
bladder control. They have a hard time getting to the toilet in time because of arthritis or other
disorders that make moving quickly difficult.
[0009]     Medical treatments for bladder control problems, UI, and OAB can include physical
and behavioral therapies, such as Kegel's pelvic floor exercises and bladder retraining; drug
medications; devices such as catheters; and surgery may also be an option for some sufferers.
Current drug therapies include anticholinergics (with antispasmodic effects, e.g., oxybutinin),
smooth muscle relaxants (antispasmodics), tricyclic antidepressants (e.g., imipramine), alpha
adrenergic antagonists, alpha-adrenergic agonists (e.g., phenylpropanolamine), prostaglandin
synthesis inhibitors, calcium channel blockers and others (Sullivan and Abrams, Eur. Urol., 36
Suppl 1:89-95 (1999); Andersson, Baillieres Best Pract. Res. Clin. Obstet. Gynaecol., 14(2):
291-313 (2000); Owens and Karram, Drug Saf., 19(2): 123-39 (1998); Wada et al., Arch. Int.
Pharmacodyn Ther., 330(1): 76-89 (1995)). Unfortunately, most drug treatments are associated
with unpleasant side effects, and this affects on patient compliance (Sullivan and Abrams, Eur.
Urol., 36 Suppl 1: 89-95 (1999); Andersson, Baillieres Best Pract. Res. Clin. Obstet. Gynaecol.,
14(2): 291-313 (2000); Owens and Karram, Drug Saf., 19(2):123-39 (1998); Wada et al., Arch.
Int. Pharmacodyn Ther., 330(1): 76-89 (1995))2-5.
[0010]     Acetylcholine is the primary excitatory neurotransmitter involved in bladder emptying.
Certain drugs commonly prescribed for urinary incontinence, such as oxybutynin hydrochloride,
inhibit the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on smooth muscle, producing a direct
antispasmodic action. These drugs relax the detrusor muscle. Wada Y. et al., Arch. Int.
Pharmacodyn. Ther., 330(1):76-89 (1995); Tapp A.J.S. et al., Brit. J. Obstetrics Gynecology, 97:
                                                   2

521-6 (1990). These medications also produce unwanted anticholinergic effects, such as dry
mouth, blurred vision and constipation. Pathak AS, Aboseif SR. Overactive Bladder: Drug
therapy versus nerve stimulation. Nat Clin Pract Urol, 2(7): 310-311, 2005; Wein (2001).
Natural therapies have also been investigated for this condition (Steels et al., Aust. Continence
J., 7(2): 34-37 (2001); Karantanis et al., Aust. Continence J., 6(4): 6-7 (2000); Arya et al.,
Obstetrics and Gynecology, 96(1): 85-89 (2000); Bryant et al., Aust. Continence J., 6(4): 8
(2000)). In Ayurveda, Crateva nurvala is a drug highly regarded for its use in the management
of uropathies (Nadkarni, Indian Materia Medica. Bombay Popular Prakashan). Western
traditional treatments recommend the use of Equisetum arvense (British Herbal Pharmacopeia.
Publ: British Herbal Medicine Association 1983). Chinese medicine values Lindera for its
various properties (Bensky D and Gamble A, 1993. Chinese HerbalMateriaMedica, Revised
Edition. England Press, Seattle, Washington, USA.)
[0011]     Isolated clinical studies conducted using herb-based natural therapies for urinary
incontinence include Crateva nurvala herb, acupuncture and dietary intervention such as
modification of dietary intake. Deshpande et al., Indian J. Med. Res. 76(supp): 46-53, 1982;
Karantanis et al., Aust. Continence J., 6(4): 6-7, 2000; Arya et al., Obstetrics and Gynecology,
96(1): 87-89, 2000; Bryant et al., Aust. Continence J., 6(4): 8, 2000.
[0012]     In some embodiments, overactive bladder (OAB) is a condition that can be
characterized by the sudden need to urinate. If that need results in the unintentional leakage of
urine, the condition is called urge incontinence ("OAB wet"). Thus, urge incontinence falls
within the general definition of OAB in some embodiments. In some embodiments, OAB can
result from the sudden, involuntary contraction of the muscle in the wall of the urinary bladder.
Approximately one-third of people with OAB also experience urge incontinence ("OAB wet"),
while approximately two-thirds have OAB without urge incontinence ("OAB dry"). According
to the National Overactive Bladder Evaluation, OAB affects 16.5% of the population, with
16.9% of women and 16.0% of men affected. Stewart et al., World J. Urol. 20: 327-336, (2003).
OAB, like urinary incontinence, is treated primarily with anticholinergic drugs (e.g., oxybutinin).
These inhibit the neurotransmitter acetylcholine from attaching to the bladder muscle, and
thereby reduce the frequency and intensity of contractions of the bladder. Unfortunately, adverse
side effects of these drugs include dry mouth, dry eyes, constipation, and headache. Anderson,
Urology, 3A: 32-41 (2004); Cruz, Urology. 3A: 65-73 (2004); Appell et al., Mayo Clinical Proc.,
78:696-702. (2003).
                                                   3

[0013]     There are currently no medications that specifically target incontinence or OAB
symptoms without having side effects elsewhere in the body. Herbal approaches to bladder
problems that improve the tone and tissue strength of the bladder and surrounding area are
proving to be effective for bladder control problems. (See, U.S. Patent No. 7,378,115; and
Schauss AG, Spiller G, Chaves S, Gawlicka A, 2006. Reducing the symptoms of overactive
bladder and urinary incontinence: results of a two-month, double-blind, placebo-controlled
clinical trial. Poster presentation FASEB, San Francisco, April, 2006.) The timeframe for these
herbal preparations to produce effective improvements in bladder control is two to three months.
In may instances, the length of time before effective results are experienced can result in distress
and discomfort for the patient, as well as an expected reduction in patient compliance with the
treatment. Herbal treatments that produce results within a shorter timeframe are warranted.
[0014]     Thus, a need exists for the identification of new herb-containing compositions that can
provide effective prevention or treatment of urinary incontinence and overactive bladder.
                                              SUMMARY
[0015]     One embodiment described herein is related to herbal compositions useful for the
prevention or treatment of urinary incontinence and overactive bladder. The herb-containing
compositions provide herein can be formulated in a dry delivery system, liquid delivery system,
or a controlled-release vehicle. In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions are
formulated as oral dosage units which include a tablet; dry powder; capsule; and caplet.
[0016]     One embodiment provides an herb-containing composition, comprising (i) a Crateva
nurvala extract preparation; (ii) an Equisetum arvense extract preparation; and (iii) a Lindera
aggregataextract preparation; wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral
dosage unit.
[0017]    An alternative embodiment provides an herb-containing composition, comprising:
(i) a Crateva nurvala stem/bark extract preparation present; (ii) an Equisetum arvense stem
extract preparation; (iii) a Lindera aggregataroot extract preparation; wherein the herb
containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit, and wherein the Equisetum arvense
stem extract preparation and the Lindera aggregataroot extract preparation are present at the
same concentration.
[0018]    An effective daily amount of each herb ranges from about 1 g to 18 g Crateva nurvala,
about 750 mg to 12 g Equisetum arvense and about 750 mg to 12 g Lindera aggregata. In an
                                                    4

alternative embodiment, an effective daily amount of each herb ranges from about 3 g to 12 g
Crateva nurvala, about 1.5 g to 6 g Equisetum arvense and about 1.5 g to 6 g Lindera aggregata.
In another alternative embodiment, an effective daily amount of each herb ranges from about 4 g
to 8 g Crateva nurvala, about 2 g to 4 g Equisetum arvense and about 2 g to 4 g Lindera
aggregata. In another alternative embodiment, an effective daily amount of each herb contains
about 6 g Crateva nurvala, about 3 g Equisetum arvense and about 3 g Lindera aggregata.
[0019]    In an alternative embodiment, the effective daily amount is taken in two equivalent
doses. For example, in one embodiment, each doses contains about 3 g Crateva nurvala, about
1.5 g Equisetum arvense and about 1.5 g Lindera aggregata.
[0020]    In another alternative embodiment, the effective daily amount is taken in three
equivalent doses. For example, in one embodiment, each doses contains about 2 g Crateva
nurvala, about 1 g Equisetum arvense and about 1 g Lindera aggregata.
[0021]    An alternative embodiment provides an herb-containing composition with at least one
of the herbal components is a standardized preparation. In an alternative embodiment, the herb
containing composition has two of the herbal components as standardized preparations. In
another embodiment, all three herbal components of the herb-containing composition (Crateva
nurvala, Equisetum arvense and Lindera aggregata)are standardized preparations.
[0022]    An alternative embodiment provides a kit for the prevention or treatment of the
symptoms of urinary incontinence or overactive bladder comprising Crateva nurvala, Equisetum
arvense and Lindera aggregata,each separately in the form of a tablet. In an alternative
embodiment, two or three herbs are combined in a single tablet. In an alternative embodiment,
the kit comprises sufficient tablets for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of urinary
incontinence or overactive bladder in a subject for 30 days. In alternative embodiments, the kit
comprises sufficient tablets for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of urinary
incontinence or overactive bladder in a subject for 7, 14, 21, or 28 days. In another alternative
embodiments, the kit comprises a sufficient number of tablets for the prevention or treatment of
the symptoms of urinary incontinence or overactive bladder in a subject for 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, or 12
months.
[0023]    Another embodiment provides a method for the prevention or treatment of the
symptoms of urinary incontinence or overactive bladder. The method comprises administering
an herb-containing composition to a subject in need thereof, the herb-containing composition
                                                  5

comprising: (i) a Crateva nurvala stem/bark extract preparation; (ii) an Equisetum arvense stem
extract preparation; and (iii) a Lindera aggregataroot extract preparation; wherein the herb
containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
                           BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0024]    The invention will be more fully understood by reference to the following drawings,
which are for illustrative purposes only:
[0025]    Figure 1 is a histogram graph showing the percentage (%) of participant population
affected by symptoms of urinary incontinence and overactive bladder during clinical assessment
in one embodiment.
[0026]    Figure 2 is a histogram graph showing the percentage (%) of participant population
experiencing symptoms of urinary incontinence and overactive bladder during clinical
assessment in one embodiment.
[0027]    Figure 3 is a histogram graph showing UDI Average Bothered Rating for symptoms
during clinical assessment in one embodiment.
[0028]    Figure 4 is a histogram graph showing the percentage (%) of participant population
experiencing symptoms IIQ during clinical assessment in one embodiment.
[0029]    Figure 5 is a histogram graph showing percentage (%) reduction in UDI ratings during
clinical assessment in one embodiment.
                                     DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0030]    It is to be appreciated therefore that certain aspects, modes, embodiments, variations
and features of the invention described below in various levels of detail in order to provide a
substantial understanding of the present invention. In general, such disclosure provides
beneficial herb-containing compositions, combinations of such compositions with other dietary
supplement compositions, and related methods of producing and using same.
[0031]    Accordingly, the various aspects of the present invention relate to therapeutic or
prophylactic uses of certain particular herb-based compositions in order to prevent or treat a
disease, injury or condition related to urinary incontinence. Accordingly, various particular
embodiments that illustrate these aspects follow.
                                                    6

[0032]    It is to be appreciated that the various modes of treatment or prevention of medical
conditions as described are intended to mean "substantial", which includes total but also less
than total treatment or prevention, and wherein some biologically or medically relevant result is
achieved.
[0033]    A "subject" as described in some embodiments herein can be a mammal, such as a
human, but can also be an animal, such as domestic animals (e.g., dogs, cats and the like), farm
animals (e.g., cows, sheep, pigs, horses and the like), and laboratory animals (e.g., rats, mice,
guinea pigs and the like).
[0034]    An "effective amount" of a composition as described in some embodiments herein can
be a quantity sufficient to achieve a desired therapeutic and/or prophylactic effect, for example,
an amount which results in the prevention of, or a decrease in the symptoms associated with, a
disease that is being treated. The amount of composition administered to the subject, particularly
one in need of the composition, can depend on the type and severity of the disease and on the
characteristics of the individual, such as general health, age, sex, body weight and tolerance to
drugs. It can also depend on the degree, severity and type of disease. A skilled artisan will be
able to determine appropriate dosages depending on these and other factors. Typically, an
effective amount of the compositions described herein can be sufficient for achieving a
therapeutic or prophylactic effect.
[0035]    In some embodiments, it can be advantageous to formulate oral compositions in dosage
unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit forms described in
some embodiments can refer to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subject
to be treated; each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active composition calculated to
produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the suitable pharmaceutical carrier.
The specification for the dosage unit forms provided in one embodiment may be dictated by and
directly dependent on the characteristics of the dietary supplement and the particular therapeutic
effect to be achieved, and the limitations inherent in the art of producing such an active
composition for the treatment of individuals. The pharmaceutical compositions can be included
in a container, pack, or dispenser, together with instructions for administration. Generally, in
some embodiments an oral dose is taken two-times to four-times daily, until symptom relief is
apparent. The compositions provided herein can also be administered in combination with each
other, or with one or more additional therapeutic compositions.
                                                   7

HERBAL INGREDIENTS
[0036]     Crateva nurvala (or "C. nurvala") is a moderate-sized tree attaining a height of over 15
meters; it is named after cratevas (Krateuas), a Greek naturalist and physician of the first Century
B.C. Common throughout India, the much-branched tree with a head of glossy trifoliate leaves
looks very majestic when in full bloom from March to May (earlier in the South). The bark of
the tree is reported to be used as a demulcent, antipyretic, sedative, alterative and tonic.
[0037]    Equisetum arvense (or "E. arvense") (botanical synonyms and common names include,
for example, Horsetail; Shave-grass; Bottle-brush; Paddock-pipes; Dutch Rushes; Pewterwort;
Shavegrass; Pewterwort; Bottlebrush; Horsetail rush; Paddock-pipes; Dutch rushes; Mare's tail)
is a European herb that grows in moist waste places throughout temperate regions of the world
and is cultivated in Yugoslavia. This perennial plant is common to moist loamy or sandy soil all
over North America and Eurasia. Compared to the other herbs in the plant kingdom, horsetail is
very rich in silicon. Equisetum is used medicinally. The sterile stems are harvested in summer
and dried. The barren stems are useful as medicine, appearing after the fruiting stems have died
down, and are used in their entirety, cut off just above the root. The herb is used either fresh or
dried, but can be most efficacious when fresh in one embodiment. A fluid extract is prepared
from it. The ashes of the plant are also employed.
[0038]    Lindera aggregata(or "L. aggregata")(botanical synonyms and common names
include Lindera strychnifolia, Japanese evergreen spicebush, Chinese allspice, Evergreen
Lindera, Kosterm, Uyaku (Japanese), Oyak (Korean)) is a Chinese herb grown in locations
including Zhejiang, Hunan, Anhui, Guangdong, and Guangxi. (Bensky and Gamble). Lindera is
an evergreen Shrub growing to 9 m (29 ft 6 in). The flowers are dioecious (i.e., individual
flowers are either male or female, but only one sex is to be found on any one plant so both male
and female plants must be grown if seed is needed). The plant is not self-fertile. The plant tends
to prefer light (sandy), medium (loamy) and heavy (clay) soils, preferring moist soil. The plant
tends to prefer acid and neutral soils and can grow in very acid soils and in semi-shade (light
woodland). It can be harvested in winter or spring (Bensky and Gamble). The root and leaves
are used therapeutically.
[0039]     Herbs are useful in various forms, for example, as a homogenized mixture obtained by
grinding or chopping a herb. The herbs are optionally subjected to processing such as
extractions, for example by obtaining a filtrate by filtering or a supernatant by centrifugation.
Known methods are readily used to extract a leaf, root, seed, stem, bark etc as appropriate. In
                                                   8

certain embodiments, extracts that contain purified active ingredients are prepared. An isolated
active ingredient is an ingredient purified from C. nurvala, E. arvense and L. aggregatathat has
activity to control (i.e., typically reduce) the symptoms UI/OAB in a subject. Administration or
use of an isolated active ingredient of another herb of the compositions herein, is considered to
be a use or administration of the herb itself. The inventor has identified certain compounds in
the herbs above without wishing to be bound by theory about compounds and metabolites in the
herbs and mechanisms of how the herbs in the compositions herein control the symptoms
UI/OAB.
[0040]     In one embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation can be extracted from the stem
and/or bark of the plant, and the preparation is present at a concentration at least about 3,000 mg
dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit. That is, the starting material is 3,000 mg of
C. nurvala dry stem/bark. This starting material is eventually concentrated during the
manufacturing process to a ratio ("extract ratio") of at least about 5 (i.e., 5:1), such as at least
about 10, such as at least about 20, such as at least about 25, such as at least about 30, such as at
least about 35, such as at least about 40. In one embodiment, the ratio is between about 25 and
about 35. As an illustrative example, a ratio of 10 would be equivalent to 300 mg of C. nurvala
preparation. Accordingly, 300 mg of C. nurvala stem/bark preparation (which is concentrated) is
equivalent to 3,000 mg dry weight of C. nurvala stem/bark or 3,000 mg of C. nurvala dry
stem/bark starting material. In one embodiment, the C. nurvala herb preparation is derived from
the stem and/or bark parts of the C. nurvala herb, i.e., a C. nurvala stem/bark extract preparation.
[0041]     The E. arvense herb preparation can be extracted from the stem of the plant, and the
preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry weight equivalents per
oral dosage unit. That is, the starting material is 1,500 mg of E. arvense herb. This starting
material is eventually concentrated during the manufacturing process to an extract ratio of at
least about 5, such as at least about 8, such as at least about 10, such as at least about 15. As an
illustrative example, a ratio of 4 or 5 would be equivalent to 375 mg or 300 mg, respectively, of
E. arvense herb preparation. Thus, in the case of a concentration ratio of 5, for example, 300 mg
of E. arvense herb preparation (which is concentrated) is equivalent to 1,500 mg dry weight of
E. arvense herb or 1,500 mg of E. arvense dry herb starting material. In one embodiment, the
E. arvense herb preparation is derived from the stem parts of the E. arvense herb, i.e., a
E. arvense stem extract preparation.
                                                    9

[0042]     The L. aggregataherb preparation can be extracted from the stem of the plant, and the
preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry weight equivalents per
oral dosage unit. That is, the starting material is 1,500 mg of L. aggregataherb. This starting
material is eventually concentrated during the manufacturing process to an extract ratio of at
least about 5, such as at least about 8, such as at least about 10, such as at least about 15. As an
illustrative example, a ratio of 4 or 5 would be equivalent to 375 mg or 300 mg, respectively, of
L. aggregataherb preparation. Thus, in the case of a concentration ratio of 5, for example,
300 mg of L. aggregataherb preparation (which is concentrated) is equivalent to 1,500 mg dry
weight of L. aggregataherb or 1,500 mg of L. aggregatadry herb starting material. In one
embodiment, the L. aggregataherb preparation is derived from the root parts of the L. aggregata
herb, i.e., a L. aggregataroot extract preparation.
[0043]      In some embodiments, the herbal ingredients described herein, alone or in
combination, can provide the following remedy or support:
Bladder Support
[0044]     Crateva nurvala, an Ayurvedic herb, has been used for many centuries for urinary
support and to help with diseases of the bladder.I It has tonic effects on the bladder and is
recommended for poor bladder tone and symptoms of incontinence.
Kidney/Bladder Stones
[0045]     Crateva and Horsetail balance urinary minerals and reduce the likelihood of stone
formation. 2,3 A key constituent of Crateva, lupeol, has been shown in a number of studies to
have anti-oxaluric and anti-calcuric effects leading to increased spontaneous passing of these two
most common forms of stones as well as symptomatic relief.2 ,4,5 Horsetail constituents inhibit
xanthine oxidase and subsequent urate calculi formation.' It is thought that this effect is
promoted by a tonic contractile effect of Crateva and Horsetail on the smooth muscle, which also
assists with bladder control. 1, 2,4
Incontinence/OAB
[0046]     Crateva and Horsetail help to improve the tone of the bladder wall. Crateva has
beneficial effects on neurogenic bladder and post-prostatectomic atony of the bladder.' Crateva
is shown to produce a significant reduction in urinary symptoms of frequency, incontinence, pain
and retention of urine in men with hypotonic bladder as a result of benign prostatic hypertrophy.
Crateva acts to increase the tone of the bladder and the expulsive force of urine, thereby helping
                                                   10

effective evacuation.1 Crateva normalizes the tone of the urinary bladder and significantly
decreases residual urine volume.
[0047]    Animal studies support this. Crateva has been shown to increase the tone of both
smooth and skeletal muscle in vitro.6 Forty days of treatment produced dramatic improvement.
[0048]    Research also supports the effectiveness of the combined Crateva and Horsetail for
bladder control. 8 '9 This combination showed improvements in bladder emptying frequency,
leakage, urgency and bladder pain or discomfort with best results occurring after two to three
months of treatment. ',
[0049] Lindera has a long history of use in Traditional Chinese Medicine for kidney and
bladder health and is specific for frequent urination and loss of bladder control.'    2   Lindera is
also recommended for the treatment of renal disease.2 1
Quality of Life
[0050]    Poor bladder control is shown to negatively affect emotional health and to reduce
quality of life for the sufferer.1 0'1 1 Research has shown the Crateva and Horsetail combined
significantly improved quality of life measurements including feeling less frustration, increased
social activities, and better travel.8 ' 9
Anti-Inflammatory
[0051]    All of three herbs described herein show anti-inflammatory effects. 12-i       Crateva and
Lindera have anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties. 12-i       The positive effect on chronic
urinary tract infections is most likely a combination of anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory
actions.
Kidney Protective
[0052]    Crateva and Lindera are also shown to have kidney protective effects; Crateva has been
shown to be nephroprotective in rats exposed to toxic doses of cadmium, while Lindera
                                                                  19 2 0
preserves renal function in animals with diabetic nephropathy. ,
[0053]    Animal research demonstrates that Lindera slows the progression of diabetic
nephropathy (destruction of the kidneys that can occur as a complication of diabetes) and could
therefore be used as a preventative approach to protect renal function from deterioration.20 Use
of Lindera can result in improved renal function, as evaluated by creatinine clearance and serum
                                                     11

creatinine. Kidneys of the Lindera treated group showed glomeruli with greater area and cell
population.
Anti-oxidant/Anti-aging
[0054]    More recent research has shown that Lindera has potent antioxidant effects to preserve
tissue and function of urinary system. It has potent antioxidant scavenging activity against ROS
and RNS (reactive oxygen species and reactive nitrogen species - both common oxidants that
damage body tissues) that effectively inhibits lipid peroxidation.2 3 Lindera extracts show
protection against neuronal oxidative injury and may be of benefit to protect against neuronal
Central nervous system degeneration.24 Lindera also has antibacterial effects.
Joint Support
[0055]    Lindera is also used traditionally for rheumatic complaints, and multiple studies have
shown that Lindera or Lindera extracts reduce inflammation.            Alkaloids derived from
Lindera have been shown in animal studies to have anti-inflammatory effects and to be of benefit
for rheumatoid arthritis (RA).1 5 Lindera has also been shown to inhibit the effects of
inflammatory mediators from macrophages. These help illustrate therapeutic efficiency on the
inflammation and joint destruction in RA.16 This supports the use of Lindera for analgesic and
anti-inflammatory actions to improve symptoms of RA and protect joints from destruction.1 7
CardiovascularSupport
[0056]    Lindera is traditionally recommended for the treatment of cardiac support. Animal
studies have shown that Lindera can improve heart function.
HERB-CONTAINING COMPOSITIONS
[0057]    One embodiment described herein provides herb-containing compositions useful in a
method of prophylaxis or treatment of disorders of the urogenital system - e.g., urinary
incontinence, enuresis (e.g., bed-wetting), benign prostatic hyperplasia, overactive bladder,
nocturia, urinary calculi, cystitis, and urinary tract infection (or "UTI"). In particular, one
embodiment provides a composition, which contains C. nurvala, E. arvense, and L. aggregata;
in one embodiment the composition is useful in the prevention and treatment of disorders of the
urogenital system. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains C. nurvala
extract preparation, E. arvense extract preparation, and L. aggregatapreparation.
                                                    12

[0058]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition is an oral supplement included in
a dry delivery system, e.g., tablet, dry powder, and dry meal replacement mixture. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition is an oral supplement included in a liquid delivery
system, e.g., capsule, caplet, or beverage. In another embodiment, the herb-containing
composition is an oral supplement included in a controlled-release vehicle, e.g., tablet, caplet,
and capsule.
[0059]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg to
about 6,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem/bark extract per oral dosage unit.
In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg to about
4,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem/bark extract per oral dosage unit. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 2,500 mg to about 3,500 mg
dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem/bark extract per oral dosage unit. In one embodiment,
the herb-containing composition contains about 3,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala
stem/bark extract per oral dosage unit. A C. nurvala stem/bark extract is an extract prepared
using both the stem parts and bark of the C. nurvala herb.
[0060]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg
to about 6,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem extract per oral dosage unit.
In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg to about
4,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem extract per oral dosage unit. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 2,500 mg to about 3,500 mg
dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem extract per oral dosage unit. In one embodiment, the
herb-containing composition contains about 3,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem
extract per oral dosage unit.
[0061]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg
to about 6,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala bark extract per oral dosage unit.
In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg to about
4,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala bark extract per oral dosage unit. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 2,500 mg to about 3,500 mg
dry weight equivalents C. nurvala bark extract per oral dosage unit. In one embodiment, the
herb-containing composition contains about 3,000 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala bark
extract per oral dosage unit.
                                                  13

[0062]     In one embodiment, to prepare the herb-containing composition, the bark and/or stems
of C. nurvala are isolated from the rest the C. nurvala plant and dried. The dried bark and stems
of C. nurvala are extracted using 70% ethanol/water. The liquid extract is then concentrated to
a ratio of 10:1. Maltodextrin is used as an excipient. The final product, i.e., C. nurvala
stem/bark extract, used in the herb-containing composition is a brown to dark brown powder. In
an alternative embodiment, the liquid extract is then concentrated to a ratio of between about 25
and 35. Maltodextrin is used as an excipient.
[0063]    In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation component of the herb-containing
composition is derived from the leaf of the E. arvense herb. In one embodiment, the E. arvense
herb preparation component of the herb-containing composition is derived from the stem of the
E. arvense herb. In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation component of the herb
containing composition is derived from a mixture of plant parts of the E. arvense herb. In
another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation component of the herb-containing
composition is derived from all the parts of the plant that extend above-ground. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg to about 3,000 mg dry
weight equivalents E. arvense herb preparation per oral dosage unit. In another embodiment, the
herb-containing composition contains from about 500 mg to about 2,500 mg dry weight
equivalents E. arvense herb preparation per oral dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb
containing composition contains from about 1,000 mg to about 2,000 mg dry weight equivalents
E. arvense herb preparation per oral dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing
composition contains from about 1,300 mg to about 1,600 mg dry weight equivalents E. arvense
herb preparation per oral dosage unit. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains about 1,500 mg dry weight equivalents E. arvense stem extract per oral dosage unit.
[0064]    In one embodiment, the L. aggregataherb preparation component of the herb
containing composition is derived from the roots of the L. aggregataherb. In one embodiment,
the L. aggregataherb preparation component of the herb-containing composition is derived from
the leaf and/or stem of the L. aggregataherb. In another embodiment, the L. aggregata herb
preparation component of the herb-containing composition is derived from a mixture of plant
parts of the L. aggregata herb. In another embodiment, the L. aggregataherb preparation
component of the herb-containing composition is derived from all the parts of the plant that
extend above-ground and/or below-ground. In one embodiment, the herb-containing
composition contains from about 1 mg to about 3,000 mg dry weight equivalents L. aggregata
                                                 14

herb preparation per oral dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 500 mg to about 2,500 mg dry weight equivalents L. aggregataherb
preparation per oral dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 1,000 mg to about 2,000 mg dry weight equivalents L. aggregataherb
preparation per oral dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 1,300 mg to about 1,600 mg dry weight equivalents L. aggregataherb
preparation per oral dosage unit. In some embodiments, the L. aggregataherb preparation can
be present at a comparable, such as the same, concentration as the E. arvense preparation. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains about 1,500 mg dry weight equivalents
L. aggregataroot extract per oral dosage unit.
[0065]    In some instances, silicon is identified as a contributor to the biological activity of
E. arvense herb. Non-standardized preparations of E. arvense herb generally contain silicon
from about 1.2% to about 6.9% silicon based on total dry weight of preparation. In one
embodiment, it has been determined that batch variation in the silicon content of E. arvense herb
preparations can have negative effects on the biological activity of the composition described
herein. This problem can be resolved in one embodiment by providing an E. arvense herb
preparation with optimized, standardized silicon content. Accordingly, in one embodiment, the
silicon content of the E. arvense herb preparation in the herb-containing preparation can be
standardized. The use of a standardized preparation E. arvense herb can be advantageous
because the inter-batch variation of silicon can be reduced, thus the composition described herein
can yield more consistent preventative or therapeutic effect. In one embodiment, the E. arvense
herb preparation is standardized to contain from about 3% silicon to about 13% silicon based on
the total dry weight of the E. arvense herb preparation. In another embodiment, the E. arvense
herb preparation is standardized to contain from about 50%silicon to about 10% silicon based on
the total dry weight of the E. arvense herb preparation. In another embodiment, the E. arvense
herb preparation is standardized to contain at least about 6% silicon based on the total dry weight
of the E. arvense herb preparation.
[0066]    In addition to silicon, E. arvense contains about 5 percent of a saponin, designated
equisetonin, and several flavone glycosides (i.e., flavonoids) including isoquercetrin, galuteolin,
and equisetrin. Isoquercetrin (i.e., isoquercitrin; Quercetin 3-0-$-D-glucopyranoside; 4H-1
Benzopyran-4-one, 2-(3,4-dihydroxy-phenyl)-3-(B-D-glucofuranosyloxy)-5,7-dihydroxy-).
Flavonoids, e.g., isoquercetrin, may have important pharmacological properties. Many
                                                   15

flavonoids are diuretic, some are antispasmodic, anti-inflammatory, antiseptic and even
antitumor. However, the predominant action of the flavonoids as a group is on the vascular
system. The flavone glycosides and the saponin likely combine to account for the diuretic action
of E. arvense.
[0067]    One embodiment provides an herb-containing composition, comprising: a C. nurvala
stem/bark preparation present at a concentration at least about 3,000 mg dry weight equivalents
per oral dosage unit; an E. arvense stem extract preparation at a concentration of at least about
1,500 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; and a L. aggregataroot extract
preparation at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage
unit. Optionally, the composition can further comprise a total silicon concentration of at least
about 32.5 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; a phosphorous concentration of at
least about 24.9 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; a magnesium concentration of at
least about 14.5 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit; and a calcium concentration of
at least about 16.3 mg dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
[0068]    Another embodiment provides an herb-containing composition, comprising a
C. nurvala stem/bark preparation, an E. arvense stem extract preparation with a total flavonoid
content from about 0.010%to about 30%total flavonoids based on the total dry weight of the
E. arvense preparation, and a L. aggregataroot extract preparation; wherein the total flavonoid
content is expressed as isoquercetrin and wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated
as an oral dosage unit. In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation can be a
standardized E. arvense stem extract preparation. In one embodiment, the standardized
E. arvense herb preparation further comprises a total flavonoid content from about 0.1% to about
2.5% total flavonoids based on the total dry weight of the E. arvense preparation and expressed
as isoquercetrin. In one embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation comprises a
total flavonoid content from about 0.5% to about 1.5% total flavonoids based on the total dry
weight of the E. arvense preparation, wherein the total flavonoid content is expressed as
isoquercetrin. In one embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation comprises a
total flavonoid content from at least about 0.8% total flavonoids based on the total dry weight of
the E. arvense preparation, wherein the total flavonoid content is expressed as isoquercetrin.
                                                  16

[0069]    Other embodiments of the herbal composition are presented in Table 1.
               Table 1: Ranges of effective daily amounts of the herbal composition
Component                 Range A (g/day)                Range B (g/day)               Range C (g/day)
 C. nurvala               1-18                           3-12                          4-8
E. arvense                0.75-12                        1.5-6                         2-4
L. aggregata              0.75-12                        1.5-6                         2-4
[0070]    An alternative embodiment provides an herb-containing composition with at least one
of the herbal components is a standardized preparation. In an alternative embodiment, the herb
containing composition has two of the herbal components as standardized preparations. In
another embodiment, all three herbal components of the herb-containing composition (Crateva
nurvala, Equisetum arvense and Lindera aggregata)are standardized preparations. Various
embodiments of the standardized preparations are provided in Table 2. For example, in
alternative embodiment A, all three herbs are non-standardized, while in embodiment G, all three
herbs are standardized.
    Table 2: Various embodiments of the standardized preparations of the herbal composition
Embodiment                C.nurvala                      E. arvense                    L. aggregata
A
B                         *
C                                                        *
D                                                                                      *
E                         *                              *
F                                                        *                             *
G                         *                              *                             *
NOTE: Herbs denoted with an asterisk (*) are standardized; herbs denoted with a dash (-) are non-standardized.
[0071]    One embodiment provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising the herb
containing composition and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
STANDARDIZATION
[0072]    In some embodiments, it has been determined that batch variation in the silicon content
and/or flavonoid content expressed as isoquercetrin of E. arvense herb preparations can have
negative effects on the biological activity of the composition described herein. This problem has
been resolved in some embodiments by providing E. arvense herb preparations with optimized,
                                                       17

standardized silicon content and/or flavonoid content expressed as isoquercetrin. One
embodiment provides an herb-containing composition, comprising a C. nurvala preparation, a
L. aggregatapreparation, and a standardized E. arvense herb preparation with a silicon content
from about 3% to about 13% silicon based on total dry weight of the E. arvense preparation,
wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit. Accordingly, for
1,500 mg dry weight of E. arvense herb or 1,500 mg of E. arvense dry herb starting material,
which produces 300 mg of E. arvense herb preparation (which is concentrated), a silicon content
from about 3% to about 13% would represent approximately 9 to 39 mg silicon.
[0073]    In one embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation further comprises a
total flavonoid content from about 0.010%to about 30%total flavonoids based on the total dry
weight of the E. arvense preparation, wherein the total flavonoid content is expressed as
isoquercetrin. In one embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation further
comprises a total flavonoid content from about 0.1% to about 2.5% total flavonoids based on the
total dry weight of the E. arvense preparation and expressed as isoquercetrin. In one
embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation further comprises a total flavonoid
content from about 0.5% to about 1.5% total flavonoids based on the total dry weight of the
E. arvense preparation, wherein the total flavonoid content is expressed as isoquercetrin. In one
embodiment, the standardized E. arvense herb preparation further comprises a total flavonoid
content from at least about 0.8% total flavonoids based on the total dry weight of the E. arvense
preparation, wherein the total flavonoid content is expressed as isoquercetrin.
[0074]    In another embodiment, it has been determined that batch variation in the total
flavonoid content (expressed as isoquercetrin content) of E. arvense herb preparations can have
negative effects on the biological activity of the composition described herein. This problem has
been resolved in some embodiments by providing an E. arvense herb preparation with optimized,
standardized total flavonoid content (expressed as isoquercetrin content). Accordingly, in one
embodiment, the total flavonoid content (expressed as isoquercetrin content) of the E. arvense
herb preparation in the herb-containing preparation is standardized. The use of a standardized
preparation E. arvense herb is advantageous because the inter-batch variation of total flavonoid
content (expressed as isoquercetrin content) is reduced, thus the composition provided herein can
yield more consistent preventative or therapeutic effect. In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb
preparation is standardized to contain from about 0.01% flavonoids to about 3% flavonoids
based on the total dry weight of the E. arvense herb preparation, wherein the total flavonoids are
                                                  18

expressed as isoquercetrin equivalents. In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation
is standardized to contain from about 0.1% flavonoids to about 2.50% flavonoids based on the
total dry weight of the E. arvense herb preparation, wherein the total flavonoids are expressed as
isoquercetrin equivalents. In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is
standardized to contain from about 0.5% flavonoids to about 1.5% flavonoids based on the total
dry weight of the E. arvense herb preparation, wherein the total flavonoids are expressed as
isoquercetrin equivalents. In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is
standardized to contain at least about 0.8% flavonoids based on the total dry weight of the
E. arvense herb preparation, wherein the total flavonoids are expressed as isoquercetrin
equivalents.
[0075]    In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to organic silicon
content by a solvent extraction process using raw material with a silicon content that met a
minimum silicon content, e.g., 3% silicon. In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation
of the herb-containing composition is derived from the stems of the E. arvense herb and
standardized for silica content (i.e., E. arvense stem extract preparation). Briefly, stem parts of
the E. arvense herb are removed from the plant and dried. They are then measured for a
minimum of 2.5% silicon content via HPLC analysis before being accepted for the extraction
process. An extract was obtained using 65%(v/v) ethanol/water extraction solvent. The extract
was concentrated to a ratio of approximately 4:1. The extract is then tested again for minimum
3% silicon content via HPLC. The final extract dry concentrate appeared as a fine brown
powder with a characteristic odor and taste.
[0076]    In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to organic
silicon by a solvent extraction process. Briefly, stem parts of the E. arvense herb are removed
from the plant and dried. Morphological examination of the starting biomass (this includes both
microscopic and macroscopic characteristics) can help facilitate using the correct species (e.g.,
an authenticated voucher specimen is stored on file for species identification). An extract is
obtained using hot water (between about 50'C and about 100C) as a solvent. The extract is
concentrated to a ratio of approximately 5:1. The extract is then dried. The extract is tested for a
minimum of approximately 3% silicon content via UV-Vis Spectrophotometry (silicon dioxide is
used as a reference substance). In one embodiment, if the extract falls outside the desired
standards above, it is titrated with a dried extract that had undergone the same process as above.
The final extract dry concentrate appear as a yellow-brown colored powder.
                                                   19

[0077]    In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation of the herb-containing composition
is derived from the stems of the E. arvense herb and standardized for total flavonoid content, i.e.,
E. arvense stem extract preparation.
[0078]    In another embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to flavonoid
(expressed as isoquercetrin) content by a solvent extraction process. Briefly, stem parts of the
E. arvense herb are removed from the plant and dried. They are then identified by TLC.
(isoquercetrin is used as reference substance). Morphological examination of the starting
biomass (this included both microscopic and macroscopic characteristics) can help facilitate
using the correct species (e.g., an authenticated voucher specimen was stored on file for species
identification). An extract was obtained using hot water (between about 50'C and about 100'C)
as a solvent. The extract is concentrated to a ratio of approximately 5:1. The extract is then
dried. The extract is tested for a minimum of approximately 0.01% isoquercetrin via UV-Vis
Spectrophotometry (isoquercetrin is used as reference substance). If the extract falls outside the
desired standards above, it is titrated with a dried extract that had undergone the same process as
above. The final extract dry concentrate appears as a yellow-brown colored powder.
[0079]    In one embodiment, the E. arvense herb preparation is standardized to organic silicon
content and flavonoid content (expressed as isoquercetrin) using the methods described above.
[0080]    In some embodiments, it is C. nurvala and/or L. aggregata, and not E. arvense, that is
standardized. In some other embodiments, all of the three are standardized. In some other
embodiments, none of the three is standardized. For example, the herb-containing composition
can comprise standardized C. nurvala and not standardized E. arvense and L. aggregata.
Alternatively, the composition can comprise standardized E. arvense and not standardized
C. nurvala and L. aggregata. Alternatively, the composition can comprise standardized
L. aggregataand not standardized C. nurvala and E. arvense. In one embodiment, the
composition can comprise standardized C. nurvala and E. arvense and not standardized
L. aggregata. Alternatively, the composition can comprise standardized C. nurvala and
L. aggregata,and not standardized E. arvense. Alternatively, the composition can comprise
standardized E. arvense and L. aggregata,and not standardized C. nurvala. The standardization
can be accomplished via any suitable compound, such as silicon, saponins, tannins, lupeol, etc.
For example, the Crateva nurvala extract preparation can be standardized to have at least one of
the following based on total weight of the Crateva nurvala root extract preparation: (i) saponins
not less than 25%; (ii) tannins not less than 2%; and (iii) lupeol not less than 1.5%.
                                                   20

OTHER CONSTITUENTS
[0081]    The herb-containing compositions described herein can include constituents in addition
to the herbal constituents C. nurvala, E. arvense, and L. aggregata. For example, in one
embodiment, the composition can contain silicon, such as in the form of silica, such as
anhydrous silica. The additional silicon assists with urogenital tissue support, strengthening and
firmness. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 10 mg dry
weight equivalents to about 71 mg dry weight equivalents of total silicon per oral dosage unit. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 15 mg dry weight
equivalents to about 45 mg dry weight equivalents of total silicon per oral dosage unit. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 28 mg dry weight
equivalents to about 34 mg dry weight equivalents of total silicon per oral dosage unit.
[0082]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains phosphorous. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 5 mg dry weight equivalents
of phosphorous to about 60 mg dry weight equivalents of phosphorous per oral dosage unit. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 10 mg dry weight
equivalents of phosphorous to about 50 mg dry weight equivalents of phosphorous per oral
dosage unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about
20 mg dry weight equivalents of phosphorous to about 30 mg dry weight equivalents of
phosphorous per oral dosage unit.
[0083]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains calcium. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg dry weight equivalents
of calcium to about 30 mg dry weight equivalents of calcium per oral dosage unit. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 5 mg dry weight equivalents
of calcium to about 25 mg dry weight equivalents of calcium per oral dosage unit. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 10 mg dry weight equivalents
of calcium to about 20 mg dry weight equivalents of calcium per oral dosage unit.
[0084]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains magnesium. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg dry weight equivalents
of magnesium to about 30 mg dry weight equivalents of magnesium per oral dosage unit. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 5 mg dry weight
equivalents of magnesium to about 25 mg dry weight equivalents of magnesium per oral dosage
unit. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 10 mg dry
                                                 21

weight equivalents of magnesium to about 20 mg dry weight equivalents of magnesium per oral
dosage unit.
[0085]    The herb-containing composition can take any suitable form, depending on the
application. For example, the composition can be a part of a cream. In one embodiment, the
herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg to about 100 mg dry weight equivalents
C. nurvala stem/bark extract per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing
composition contains from about 10 mg to about 60 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala
stem/bark extract per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 40 mg to about 60 mg dry weight equivalents C. nurvala stem/bark extract
per gram of cream.
[0086]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg to
about 60 mg dry weight equivalents E. arvense herb per gram of cream. In another embodiment,
the herb-containing composition contains from about 5 mg to about 40 mg dry weight
equivalents E. arvense herb per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing
composition contains from about 10 mg to about 30 mg dry weight equivalents E. arvense herb
per gram of cream.
[0087]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains orange oil. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg to about 30 mg orange
oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from
about 5 mg to about 25 mg dry orange oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb
containing composition contains from about 8 mg to about 12 mg orange oil per gram of cream.
[0088]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains Juniperus virginiana
(Cedarwood) stem essential oil. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains
from about 1 gg to about 1,000 gg J. virginianastem essential oil per gram of cream. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about from about 250 gg to about
750 gg J. virginianastem essential oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb
containing composition contains from about 400 gg to about 600 gg J. virginianastem essential
oil per gram of cream.
[0089]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains Myrrh oil. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 gg to about 1,000 gg Myrrh
oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from
                                               22

about from about 250 gg to about 750 gg Myrrh oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment,
the herb-containing composition contains from about 400 gg to about 600 gg Myrrh oil per gram
of cream.
[0090]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains Orange flower oil. In
one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 gg to about 1,000 gg
Orange flower oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about from about 250 gg to about 750 gg Orange flower oil per gram of cream. In
another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 400 gg to about
600 gg Orange flower oil per gram of cream.
[0091]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains Cupressus sempervirens
(Cypress) leaf oil. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about
1 gg to about 1,000 gg C. sempervirens leaf oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the
herb-containing composition contains from about from about 50 gg to about 500 gg C.
sempervirens leaf oil per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing
composition contains from about 75 gg to about 125 gg C. sempervirens leaf oil per gram of
cream.
[0092]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains d-alpha-tocopheryl
acetate (Natural Vitamin E). In one embodiment the herb-containing composition contains d
alpha-tocopheryl acetate. In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from
about 0.1 mg to about 25 mg d-alpha-tocopheryl acetate per gram of cream. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg to about 10 mg dry d
alpha-tocopheryl acetate per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing
composition contains from about 4 mg to about 6 mg d-alpha-tocopheryl acetate per gram of
cream.
[0093]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains diazolidinylurea. In
one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains diazolidinylurea. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 0.1 mg to about 10 mg
diazolidinylurea per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 1 mg to about 5 mg dry diazolidinylurea per gram of cream. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 3 mg to about 3.5 mg
diazolidinylurea per gram of cream.
                                               23

[0094]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains hydroxybenzoates.
In one embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains hydroxybenzoates. In one
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 0.1 mg to about 5 mg
hydroxybenzoates per gram of cream. In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition
contains from about 0.5 mg to about 3 mg dry hydroxybenzoates per gram of cream. In another
embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains from about 1 mg to about 2 mg
hydroxybenzoates per gram of cream.
[0095]    In another embodiment, the herb-containing composition contains extracts of
C. nurvala stem/bark; E. arvense leaf/stem; and L. aggregataroot; Orange oil; J. virginiana
stem; Myrrh oil; Orange flower oil; C. sempervirens leaf; d-alpha-tocopheryl acetate;
diazolidinylurea; and hydroxybenzoates.
MEDICINAL PROPERTIES AND USES OF COMPOSITIONS
[0096]    One embodiment provides herb-containing compositions useful in a method of
prophylaxis or treatment of disorders of the urogenital system, e.g., urinary incontinence,
enuresis (e.g., bed-wetting), benign prostatic hyperplasia, overactive bladder, nocturia, urinary
calculi, cystitis, and UTIs. Not to be bound by any particular theory, but in some embodiments
the primary active ingredients present in both the Crateva and Equisetum are the saponins and
plant sterols. Crateva contains flavonoids, glucosinolates and the plant sterol, lupeol, while
Equisetum contains the mineral, silica, flavonoids (isoquercetin, luteolin, and kaempferol) and
the saponin, equisetin. Nadkarni K.M. et al., Indian Materia. Medica. Bombay Popular
Prakashan; British Herbal Pharmacopeia. Publ: British Herbal Medicine Association 1983; Bone
K. ClinicalApplications ofAyurvedic and Chinese Herbs. Monographsfor the western herbal
practitioner.Phytotherapy Press, Warwick, Qld, Australia 1997; The German Commission E
Monographs, 1998; D'Agostino M. et al., Boll. Soc. Ital. Biol. Sper., 30;60(12):2241-5 (1984);
Pengelly A. The constituents of medicinalplants: an introductionto the chemistry and
therapeuticsof herbal medicine. Sunflower Herbal      2 nd Edition, Merriwa, NSW, Australia, 1996;
Lakshmi V. et al., Planta Medica, 32: 214-216 (1977).
[0097]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions can be useful in the prevention
and treatment of urinary calculi. Crateva and Equisetum have been shown to alter urinary
electrolytes in such a way so as to reduce lithogenic potentiality. Varalakshmi P et al., J.
Ethnopharmacology, 28: 313-321 (1990); Anand R. et al., Indian J. Pharmacology, 27: 265-268
(1995); Grases F. et al., Int. Urol. Nephrol., 26(5):507-511 (1994). Crateva has also been found
                                                  24

to inhibit small intestinal Na-K-ATPase. Varalakshmi P. et al., J. Ethnopharmacology, 31: 67-73
(1991). These effects may be due primarily to the presence of the sterol lupeol. A number of
studies have shown that lupeol has anti-oxaluric and anti-calcuric effects leading to increased
spontaneous passing of stones and symptomatic relief. Varalakshmi P et al., J.
Ethnopharmacology, 28: 313-321 (1990); Anand R. et al., Indian J. Pharmacology, 27: 265-268
(1995); Malini M.M., et al., Jpn. J. Med. Sci. Biol., 48(5-6):211-20 (1995); Lakshmi V. et al.,
Planta Medica, 32: 214-216 (1977).
[0098]    In one embodiment, it is hypothesized that this passage of the stone may be produced
via a tonic contractile action of the drug on the smooth muscle. Varalakshmi P et al., J.
Ethnopharmacology, 28: 313-321 (1990); Anand R. et al., Indian J. Pharmacology, 27: 265-268
(1995); Deshpande P.J. et al., Indian J. Med. Res., 76(Suppl): 46-53 (1982). Equisetum may also
assist with incontinence via a similar mechanism. Kaempferol, luteolin and isoquercetin, found
in Equisetum are documented to inhibit xanthine oxidase and subsequent urate calculi formation.
Nagao A. et al., Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem., 63(10):1787-90 (1999). These herbal drugs can
act to improve the tone of the bladder wall. In 1982, Deshpande et al. reported that Crateva has
beneficial effects on neurogenic bladder and post-prostatectomic atony of the bladder.
Deshpande P.J. et al., Indian J. Med. Res., 76(Suppl):46-53 (1982).
[0099]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions can be useful in the prevention
and treatment of incontinence and benign prostatic hypertrophy and urinary incontinence.
Crateva administration produces a marked relief of symptoms of frequency, incontinence, pain
and retention of urine in men with hypotonic bladder as a result of benign prostatic hypertrophy.
Deshpande P.J. et al., Indian J. Med. Res., 76 (Suppl):46-53 (1982). Crateva can act to increase
the tone of the bladder and the expulsive force of urine, thereby helping effective evacuation.
Deshpande P.J. et al., Indian J. Med. Res., 76 (Suppl):46-53 (1982) - cystometric studies
analyzed in this paper also show that Crateva normalizes the tone of the urinary bladder and
significantly decreases residual urine volume. The herb-containing compositions provided
herein, therefore, are useful in the prevention and treatment of urinary incontinence.
[0100]    These results are also supported by animal studies where Crateva has been shown to
increase the tone of both smooth and skeletal muscle in vitro. Das P.K. et al., J. Res. Ind. Med.,
9:49 (1974). Animal studies show that 40 days of treatment with Crateva resulted in hypertonic
curves of the urinary bladder when compared to initial curves. Das P.K. et al., J. Res. Ind. Med.,
9:49 (1974).
                                                  25

[0101]    Equisetum is rich in silicic acid and silicates. In one embodiment, silica supports the
regeneration of connective tissue. Chevallier, A., The Encyclopedia ofMedicinal Plants,(Horn
V. and Weil, C., Eds.) Dorling Kindersley Ltd., London (1996). Thus, the herb-containing
compositions described herein can be useful in the prophylaxis or treatment of disorders of the
urogenital system, for example, urinary incontinence, enuresis (e.g., bed-wetting), benign
prostatic hyperplasia, urinary calculi, cystitis, and UTIs.
[0102]    The herb-containing compositions provided herein are useful in the prevention and
treatment of UTIs and cystitis. It has been shown in rat studies that some species of the
Equisetum family have a diuretic action, shown by excretion of sodium, potassium and chloride,
similar to that of other drugs such as hydrochlorothiazide. Perez Gutierrez R.M. et al., J.
Ethnopharmacol., 14(2-3):269-272 (1985); D'Agostino M. et al., Boll. Soc. Ital. Biol. Sper.,
60(12):2241-5 (1984). A more recent study using rats also demonstrated beneficial affects of the
drugs in urolithiasis. Grases F. et al., Int. Urol. Nephrol., 26(5):507-511 (1994). These authors
suggest that this result could be due to the antibacterial action of the constituents, namely, the
saponins. Interestingly, Crateva has anti-inflammatory and antibacterial properties. Nadkarni
K.M. et al., Indian Materia Medica. Bombay Popular Prakashan; Bone K. ClinicalApplications
ofAyurvedic and Chinese Herbs. Monographsfor the western herbalpractitioner.Phytotherapy
Press, Warwick, Qld, Australia 1997; Salvat A. et al., Lett. Appl. Microbiology, 32(5): 293-7
(2001); Xu HX et al., Phytother. Res., 15(1):39-43 (2001); Geetha T. et al., Gen. Pharmacol.,
32(4):495-7 (1999); Geetha T. et al., J. Ethnopharmacol., 76(1):77-80 (2001). Combined with
Crateva'stonic effects on smooth muscle, it is considered to assist with bladder evacuation,
thereby decreasing residual urine, a known to contributing factor to UTIs. Deshpande P.J. et al.,
Indian J. Med. Res., 76(Suppl):46-53 (1982).
[0103]    Isoquercetin, found in Equisetum, is known to have anti-inflammatory effects via
inhibition of inflammatory prostaglandins, although Crateva is thought to produce anti
inflammatory effects via a different mechanism. D'Agostino M. et al., Boll. Soc. Ital. Biol.
Sper., 30;60(12):2241-5 (1984); Geetha T. et al., Gen. Pharmacol., 32(4):495-7 (1999). The
positive effect on chronic urinary tract infections is most likely a combination of anti-bacterial
and anti-inflammatory actions.
[0104]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions can be useful in the prevention
and treatment of urinary incontinence, UTIs, and enuresis. There is evidence for the use of
Virginia cedarwood in treating incontinence, enuresis and assisting bladder tone as well as
                                                    26

bladder infections, difficult urination and cystitis. Tisserand and Balacs, Essential Oil Safety. A
Guidefor Health Care Professionals.Churchill Livingstone, U. K., 1995; 28-29, 31, 33-34;
Price, S. PracticalAromatherapy. Thorsons, Harper Collins Publishers, California, U.S., 1983;
157-8, 170-171, 174, 185; Davis, P. Aromatherapy An A - Z. The C. W. Daniel Company,
Essex, England, 1998; 194; Valnet, J. The PracticeofAromatherapy. Saffron Walden, The C.
W. Daniel Company, Essex, England, 1980; 120-121; Price, S. The Aromatherapy Workbook.
Thorsons (Harper Collins), California, USA, 1993; 67; Caddy, R., Aromatherapy Essential Oils
in Colour. Amberwood Publishing Ltd, East Horsley, Surrey, England, 1997; 14. The
documented properties likely to produce this effect include the antispasmodic, diuretic, antiseptic
and astringent.
[0105]    Cypress is documented as an antispasmodic, astringent, antiseptic, deodorant, diuretic
and tonic that may promote venous circulation to the kidneys and bladder area, improve bladder
tone and assist with urinary incontinence and enuresis. Tisserand and Balacs, Essential Oil
Safety. A Guidefor Health Care Professionals.Churchill Livingstone, U. K., 1995; 28-29, 31,
33-34; Valnet, J. The Practice ofAromatherapy. Saffron Walden, The C. W. Daniel Company,
Essex, England, 1980; 120-121, Holmes, P. The Energetics of Western Herbs. Artemis Press,
Boulder, Colorado, USA, 1989; 567-569, 792; Damian, P & K. Aromatherapy Scent and
Psyche. Healing Arts Press, Rochester, Vermont, Canada, 1995; 187-188; Price, S. The
Aromatherapy Workbook. Thorsons (Harper Collins), California, USA, 1993; 67; Chidell, L.
Aromatherapy. A Definitive Guide to Essential Oils. Hodder and Stoughton Ltd, Kent, UK,
1992; 23-24, 80-8 1; Keller, E. The Compete Home Guide to Aromatherapy. H J Kramer, Inc,
Tiburon, California, USA, 1991; 178-179.
[0106]    Recent literature describes Myrrh as an astringent and antiseptic that produces a
soothing effect on mucous membranes of the urinary system and promotes healing of tissues.
Battaglia, S. The Complete Guide to Aromatherapy. The Perfect Potion Pty Ltd, Virginia,
Brisbane, Qld, Australia, 1995; 110-113, 116, 150-151, 158-159, 182-183, 184-185, 187;
Lawless, J. The Encyclopaedia ofEssential Oils. (1992) Element Books for Jacaranda Wiley,
Ltd, Australia, 1992; 76-77, 88-89, 135-136. Orange and Neroli are documented as having anti
spasmodic, antiseptic and deodorant effects. 6,10; Sheppard-Hanger. The Aromatherapy
PractitionerManual. Aquarius Publishing, Willetton, Western Australia, 1995; 183; Sellar, W.
The DirectoryofEssential Oils. Saffron Walden, The C.W. Daniel Company, Essex, England,
                                                   27

1992; 50-51, 106-107; Keller, E. The Compete Home Guide to Aromatherapy. H J Kramer, Inc,
Tiburon, California, USA, 1991; 178-179.
[0107]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions can be useful in the prevention
and treatment of disorders of the prostate, e.g., benign prostatic hyperplasia. Essential oils are
also recommended for male reproductive health, indicating a possible effect on the prostate in
men. Battaglia, S. The Complete Guide to Aromatherapy. The Perfect Potion Pty Ltd, Virginia,
Brisbane, Qld, Australia, 1995; 110-113, 116, 150-151, 158-159, 182-183, 184-185, 187; Price,
S. PracticalAromatherapy. Thorsons, Harper Collins Publishers, California, U.S., 1983; 157-8,
170-171, 174, 185; Lawless, J. The Encyclopaedia ofEssentialOils. (1992) Element Books for
Jacaranda Wiley, Ltd, Australia, 1992; 76-77, 88-89, 135-136; Valnet, J. The Practiceof
Aromatherapy. Saffron Walden, The C. W. Daniel Company, Essex, England, 1980; 120-121.
[0108]    Certain drugs commonly prescribed for urinary incontinence, such as oxybutynin
hydrochloride, inhibit the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on smooth muscle, producing a
direct antispasmodic action; that is, they relax the detrusor muscle. Tapp A.J.S. et al., Brit. J.
Obstetrics and Gynecology, ; 97: 521-6 (1990). This antispasmodic effect is preferred to the
anticholinergic effect of drugs previously used for patients with urinary incontinence. The
antispasmodic effect of these essential oils, whilst not provided in more specific detail, may also
be producing an action similar to currently prescribed drug medications.
[0109]    Herbal diuretics are documented as increasing blood flow through the kidneys without
resorption at the distal tubule of the nephron and associated loss of electrolytes (apart from
potassium), as is the case with more sophisticated modern drug diuretics. Mills and Bone,
Principlesand PracticeofPhytotherapy. Churchill Livingstone, 2000;35, 220-222. Also,
diuresis often does not result from herbal diuretic use. Mills and Bone, Principlesand Practice
ofPhytotherapy.Churchill Livingstone, 2000;35, 220-222. Not to be bound by any particular
theory, but it may be that these herbal essential oils largely stimulate the blood flow to the
kidneys resulting in an increase or greater efficiency in the production of urine. This effect,
when combined with complete emptying of the bladder when voiding, may minimize the volume
of urine lost through continual leakage.
PHARMACEUTICAL COMPOSITIONS AND FORMULATIONS
[0110]    One embodiment provides methods of preventing and/or treating a urogenital system
disorder in a subject by administering to the subject an herb-containing composition in an
                                                  28

amount sufficient to prevent or treat the urogenital system disorder (i.e., pharmaceutically
effective amount). The composition can be any of the compositions described herein. A subject
in need of the presently described composition (and the administration thereof) can be one
suffering any of the urogenital system disorders, including at least one of (i) urinary incontinence
and (ii) overactive bladder symptoms. For example, the urogenital system disorder can include
urinary incontinence, enuresis, benign prostatic hyperplasia, nocturia, urinary calculi, cystitis,
OAB, a urinary tract infection, and the like.
[0111]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions can be used alone or further
formulated with pharmaceutically acceptable compositions, vehicles, or adjuvants with a
favorable delivery profile (i.e., suitable for delivery to a subject, particularly one in need
thereof). Such compositions typically comprise the herb-containing composition and a
pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. "Pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" in some
embodiments is intended to include any and all solvents, dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial
and antifungal compositions, isotonic and absorption delaying compositions, and the like,
compatible with pharmaceutical administration. Suitable carriers are described in the most
recent edition of Remington's Pharmaceutical Sciences, a standard reference text in the field,
which is incorporated herein by reference. Preferred examples of such carriers or diluents
include, but are not limited to, water, saline, Ringer's solutions, dextrose solution, and 5% human
serum albumin. The use of such media and compositions for pharmaceutically active substances
is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or composition is
incompatible with the active composition, use thereof in the compositions is contemplated.
Supplementary active compositions can also be incorporated into the compositions.
[0112]    A pharmaceutical composition is formulated to be compatible with its intended route of
administration. Examples of routes of administration include, e.g., oral; transdermal (i.e.,
topical), and transmucosal administration. The pH can be adjusted with acids or bases, such as
hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide.
[0113]    Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. They can be
enclosed in gelatin capsules, caplets or compressed into tablets. For the purpose of oral
therapeutic administration, the herb-containing composition can be incorporated with excipients
and used in the form of tablets, troches, or capsules. Oral compositions can also be prepared
using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash, wherein the composition in the fluid carrier is
applied orally and swished and expectorated or swallowed. Pharmaceutically compatible
                                                   29

binding compositions, and/or adjuvant materials can be included as part of the composition. The
tablets, pills, capsules, troches and the like can contain any of the following ingredients, or
compositions of a similar nature: a binder such as microcrystalline cellulose, gum tragacanth or
gelatin; an excipient such as starch or lactose, a disintegrating composition such as alginic acid,
Primogel, or corn starch; a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or Sterotes; a glidant such as
colloidal silicon dioxide; a sweetening composition such as sucrose or saccharin; or a flavoring
composition such as peppermint, methyl salicylate, or orange flavoring. The herb-containing
compositions provided herein can also be formulated as a topical cream for transdermal or
transmucosal administration.
[0114]    In one embodiment, the herb-containing compositions are prepared with carriers that
will protect the composition against rapid elimination from the body, such as a controlled release
formulation, including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable,
biocompatible polymers can be used, such as ethylene vinyl acetate, polyanhydrides,
polyglycolic acid, collagen, polyorthoesters, and polylactic acid. Methods for preparation of
such formulations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The materials can also be obtained
commercially from Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
[0115]    The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container, pack, or dispenser
together with instructions for administration.
[0116]    As a result of administrating the presently described herb-containing composition to a
subject in need thereof, the symptoms in the subject can be alleviated. For example, the
treatment can result in a reduction in at least one of (i) urinary incontinence and (ii) OAB. In one
embodiment, the treatment can result in an improvement of at least one of average daily
frequency of urination; average nightly frequency of urination; total urinary incontinence
episodes; stress incontinence episodes; and urinary urgency episodes.
[0117]    In contrast to some of the pre-existing herb-containing compositions, the compositions
provided herein surprisingly can provide efficacy and efficiency much higher that the pre
existing compositions. For example, the compositions provided herein can result in
improvement that is about at least two times, such as at least three times, four times, five times,
or more, as fast as the pre-existing herb-containing compositions. For example, compared to the
composition as provided in U.S. Pat. No. 7,378,115, which achieved improvement in about 3
months, the compositions provided herein can achieve a comparable level of improvement in less
than three months, such as less than two months, such as less than one month, such as less than 2
                                                   30

weeks. In one embodiment, the presently described composition can accomplish the
improvement between about two weeks and about two months, such as about two weeks, or such
as about one moth.
[0118]    The articles "a" and "an" are used herein to refer to one or to more than one (i.e., to at
least one) of the grammatical object of the article. By way of example, "a polymer resin" means
one polymer resin or more than one polymer resin. Any ranges cited herein are inclusive. The
terms "substantially" and "about" used throughout this Specification are used to describe and
account for small fluctuations. For example, they can refer to less than or equal to  +5%,   such as
less than or equal to 2%, such as less than or equal to +1%, such as less than or equal to +0.5%,
such as less than or equal to 0.2%, such as less than or equal to +0.1 %, such as less than or
equal to +0.05%.
REFERENCES
[0119]    1. Desphande P.J, Sahu M, Kumar P, 1982. Crataeva nurvala Hook and Forst (Varuna)
the Ayurvedic drug of choice in urinary disorders. Indian JournalofMedical Research;76
(Suppl) December: 46-53.
[0120]    2. Anand R, Patnaik GK, Kamal Roy, Bhaduri AP, 1995. Antioxaluric and anticalciuric
activity of lupeol derivatives. Indian JournalofPharmacology;27: 265-268.
[0121]    3. Grases F, Melero G. Costa-Bauza A, Prieto R, March JG, 1994. Urolithiasis and
phytotherapy. InternationalJournalof Urology and Nephrology; 26(5): 507-511.
[0122]    4. Varalakshmi P, Shamila Y, Latha E. Effect of Crataeva nurvala in experimental
urolithiasis. J Ethnopharmacology 1990; 28: 313-321.
[0123]    5. Malini MM, Baskar R, Varalakshmi P. Effect of lupeol, a pentacyclic triterpene, on
urinary enzymes in hyperoxaluric rats. Jpn J Med Sci Biol 1995 Oct-Dec; 48(5-6): 211-20.
[0124]    6. Das PK, Rathor RS, Lal R, Tripathi RM, Ram AK, Biswas M, 1974. Anti
inflammatory and anti-arthritic activity of Varuna. JournalofResearch ofIndian Medicine; 9:49.
[0125]    7. Nagao A, Seki M, Kobayashi H, 1999. Inhibition of xanthine oxidase by flavonoids.
Biosci Biotechnology Biochemistry; 63(10): 1787-90.
[0126]    8. Steels E, Ryan J, Seipel T, Rao A, 2002. Crateva and Equisetum reduce urinary
incontinence symptoms. Australian ContinenceJournal; 8 (3).
                                                  31

 [0127]    9. Schauss AG, Spiller G, Chaves S, Gawlicka A, 2006. Reducing the symptoms of
 overactive bladder and urinary incontinence: results of a two-month, double-blind, placebo
 controlled clinical trial. Poster presentation FASEB, San Francisco, April, 2006.
 [0128]    10. Robinson D, Pearce KF, Preisser JS, Dugan E, Suggs PK and Cohen SJ, 1998.
 Relationship between patient reports of urinary incontinence symptoms and quality of life
 measures. Obstetrics and Gynaecology; 91 (2): 224-228.
 [0129]    11. Coyne K, Payne C, Bhattacharyya S, Revicki D, Thompson C, Corey R, Hunt T,
 2004. The impact of urinary urgency and frequency on health-related quality of life in overactive
 bladder: Results from a national community survey. Value in Health; 7(4)
 [0130]    12. Bone K. Clinical Applications of Ayurvedic and Chinese Herbs, 1997. Monographs
for the western herbalpractitioner.Phytotherapy Press, Warwick, Queensland, Australia.
 [0131]    13. Geetha T, Varalakshmi P, 2001. Anti-inflammatory activity of lupeol and lupeol
 linoleate in rats. JournalofEthnopharmacology;76(1): 77-80
 [0132]    14. Geetha T, Varalakshmi P, 1999. Anticomplement activity of triterpenes from
 Crataeva nurvala stem bark in adjuvant arthritis in rats. GeneralPharmacology;32(4):495-7.
 [0133]    15. Chan Wang, Yue Dai, Jian Yang, Guixin Chou, Changhong Wang, Zhengtao Wang,
 2007. Treatment with total alkaloids from Radix Linderae reduces inflammation and joint
 destruction in type II collagen-induced model for rheumatoid arthritis. Journalof
Ethnopharmacology;111:322-328.
 [0134]    16. Yubin Luo, Mei Liu, Xiujuan Yao, Yufeng Xia, Yue Dal, Guixin Chou and
 Zhengtao Wang, 2009. Total alkaloids from Radix Linderae prevent the production of
 inflammatory mediators in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated RAW 264.7 cells by suppressing NF
 KB  and MAPKs activation. Cytokine; 46(1): 104-110.
 [0135]    17. Qinglin L, Guixin C, Changgui D, Zhengtao W, Fang H, 1997-12. Studies on the
 analgesic and anti-inflammatory action of radix Linderae extract. Journalof Chinese Medicinal
Materials. (China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing 210038) (Abstract)
 [0136]    18. Runwei Yan, Yang Yang, Yingying Zeng, Guolin Zou, 2009. Cytotoxicity and
 antibacterial activity of Lindera strychnifolia essential oils and extracts. Journalof
Ethnopharmacology;121:451-455.
                                                   32

[0137]    19. Nagaraj M, Sunitha S, Varalakshmi P, 2000. Effect of lupeol, a pentacyclic
triterpene, on the lipid peroxidation and antioxidant status in rat kidney after chronic cadmium
exposure. JournalofApplied Toxicology; 20(5): 413-417.
[0138]    20. Ohno T, Takemura G, Murata I, Kagawa T, Akao S, Minatoguchi S, Fujiwara T and
Fujiwara H, 2005. Water extract of the root of Lindera strychnifolia slows down the progression
of diabetic nephropathy in db/db mice. Life Sciences; 77(12):1391-1403.
[0139]    21. BenskyD and Gamble A, 1993. Chinese HerbalMateriaMedica, Revised Edition.
England Press, Seattle, Washington, USA.
[0140]    22. Shimomura M, Ushikoshi H, Hattori A, Murata I, Ohno Y, Aoyama T, Kawasaki
M, Nishigaki K, Takemura G, FuJiwara T, Fujiwara H, Minatoguchi S, 2010. Treatment with
Lindera strychnifolia reduces blood pressure by decreasing sympathetic nerve activity in
spontaneously hypertensive rats. American Journalof Chinese Medicine; 38(3): 561-8.
[0141]    23. Noda Y, Mori A, Anzai K, Packer L,1999. Superoxide anion radical scavenging
activity of Uyaka (Lindera strychnifolia), a natural extract used in traditional medicine.
Antioxidant Food Supplements in Human Health.
[0142]    24. Bin Li, Gil-Saeng Jeong, Dae-Gill Kang, Ho-Sub Lee and Youn-Chul Kim, 2009.
Cytoprotective effects of lindenenyl acetate isolated from Lindera strychnifolia on mouse
hippocampal HT22 cells. EuropeanJournalofPharmacology.Neuropharmacology and
Analgesia; 16(1-3): 58-65.
[0143]    The invention is further defined by reference to the following examples, which are not
meant to limit the scope of the present invention. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art
that many modifications, both to the materials and methods, may be practiced without departing
from the purpose and interest of the invention.
                            NON-LIMITING WORKING EXAMPLES
EXAMPLE 1:      CLINICAL TRIAL OF HERB-CONTAINING NATURAL THERAPEUTIC COMBINATION
                FOR URINARY INCONTINENCE AND       OAB   (OVERACTIVE BLADDER) SYMPTOMS
GENERAL
[0144]    Studies were conducted to investigate the effectiveness of an herb-containing natural
therapeutic bladder control preparation in relieving urinary incontinence and OAB (overactive
                                                 33

bladder) symptoms (hereinafter, "UI/OAB bladder control preparation"). The interviews were
conducted at Kelvin Grove Natural Medicine clinic, Brisbane, Australia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS
        Test Preparation
[0145]    The herbal components of bladder control preparation are listed on the ARTG
(Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods) as safe for use. Each preparation contained the
herbs, C. nurvala stem/bark extract, E. arvense stem extract and L. aggregataroot extract. For
example, each tablet contained dry weight equivalents as follows: C. nurvala stem/bark extract
(3,000 mg) 3 g, E. arvense (Horsetail) herb (1,500 mg) 1.5 g, and L. aggregata(Lindera) root
((1,500 mg) 1.5 g.
        Study Design
[0146]    Nine (9) adults experiencing symptoms of urge incontinence and/or stress incontinence,
OAB, urinary urgency, nocturia or urinary frequency on a regular basis were recruited through
Kelvin Grove Natural Medicine clinic and advertisements in local health food stores. One
participant did not complete the study due to unrelated reasons. There were eight (8) participants
(one male and seven females) completing the study with an average age of 58 years (range 45-80
years).
[0147]    All participants met the following criteria:
           *    had not undergone recent surgery particularly hysterectomy or prolapse repair
                within the last 12 months,
         *      did not have any serious health conditions such as diabetes mellitus, heart disease,
                pancreatic disease, hepatic disease or chronic inflammatory conditions,
                were not currently being treated for psychotic disturbances, and
         *      did not use any medicine for incontinence symptoms in the last month prior to
                commencement of the study.
[0148]    None of the participants were engaging in the specific pelvic exercises to improve
muscle tone prior to the study.
[0149]    The treatment protocol consisted of ingesting once daily, a prescribed herbal blend
equivalent to dry extracts of 6g C. nurvala, 3 g E. arvense, and 3g L. aggregatadaily over a
period of two months. Average daily and nightly (nocturia) frequency of urination, total urinary
                                                  34

incontinence episodes, stress incontinence episodes and urinary urgency episodes were assessed,
compared to baseline, at 2 weeks, one month, and again at two months. These results were
compared using a paired t-test.
 [0150]    Efficacy of treatment was also assessed, compared to baseline and one month by using
the short versions of the Incontinence Impact Questionnaire (IIQ) and the Urogenital Distress
Inventory (UDI). The short version (six questions) of the IIQ assesses the impact of
incontinence on daily activities, such as household chores, physical activity and social activities.
The questions in the UDI relate specifically to the physical aspects of incontinence and bladder
control as detailed below in Table 3.
                                  Table 3: Urogenital Distress Inventory
                   Do you experience, and if so, how much are you bothered by:
                   Frequent urination
                   Leakage due to feeling or urgency
                   Leakage due to activity, coughing, sneezing
                   Small amounts of leakage (drops)
                   Difficulty empting bladder
                   Pain or discomfort in lower abdominal or genital area
 [0151]    The short version (six questions) of the IIQ assesses the impact of incontinence on daily
activities, such as household chores, physical activity and social activities as summarized below
in Table 4.
                                Table 4: Incontinence impact questionnaire
                                Has urine leakage affected the following:
                               Household chores
                               Physical recreation
                               Entertainment activities
                               Travel >30 min from home
                               Social activities
                               Emotional health
                               Feeling frustrated
 [0152]    All questions were rated on a scale of 0 to 3 (0  =  not bothered, 1 = slightly bothered,
2  = moderately bothered, 3    = extremely bothered). Both questionnaires were standardized
disease specific questionnaires used to detect bothersome incontinence in older people.
Robinson, D. et al., Obstetrics and Gynecology, 91:2, 224-8 (1998).
 [0153]    A positive improvement was defined as a statistically significant difference, i.e.,
p-value < 0.05, in a parameter measuring the physical aspects of incontinence or the physical or
social activities of test subjects receiving the UI/OAB bladder control preparation when
                                                     35

compared to the same parameter in human test subjects prior to receiving the UI/OAB bladder
control preparation. A positive improvement in any parameter relating to the physical aspects of
incontinence or overactive bladder or the physical or social activities of human test subjects
receiving UI/OAB bladder control preparation when compared to the same parameter in human
test subjects prior to receiving the bladder control test preparation demonstrates that the UI/OAB
bladder control preparation is useful to prevent or treat a urogenital system disorder in a human
subject, e.g., urinary incontinence; overactive bladder; enuresis; benign prostatic hyperplasia;
nocturia; urinary calculi; cystitis; and urinary tract infection.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
        Frequency of Urination during the Day
[0154]    The results demonstrated that the average frequency of urination during the day reduced
significantly (p < 0.005) during the two months of treatment. The number of times participants
needed to empty the bladder reduced from an average of 12.4 (prior to treatment), to 9.8 times
per day (after 2 weeks), 8 times per day (after one month), which is within the normal range, and
7.6 times per day (after two months).
        Frequency of Nocturia
[0155]    The results demonstrated that this treatment was effective in reducing the number of
times participants needed to empty the bladder at night. There was a reduction in awakenings
from 2.75 times per night initially to 0.625 times and 0.375 times and 0.313 times per night at
two weeks and month 1 and month 2 respectively (all p values < 0.05). Many of the participants
were able to sleep though the night altogether after two weeks of treatment. In addition some
participants commented that if they awoke with the need to urinate, they could hold the urine and
return to sleep without having to get out of bed and without accident.
         Urinary Urgency
[0156]    The results demonstrated that urinary urgency reduced from an average of 3.75 times a
day to 2.5 times (p < 0.05) at week 2 and 1.4 times (p < 0.05) at month 1 and 1.25 times (p <
0.05) at month 2.
         UrinaryIncontinence
[0157]    The results demonstrated that this treatment was effective in reducing the number of
times participants experienced urinary incontinence. There was a reduction in incontinence
episodes from 2 times per day initially to 0.5 times at 2 weeks and 0 times at month 1 and month
                                                   36

2 (p<0.05). A 50% reduction in pad by month one usage was also seen; however, at the month 1
stage some participants still elected to use a pad as a precautionary measure. By month 2 only
one participant was still using pads.
         The UrogenitalDistressInventory
[0158] At baseline, symptoms experienced by most participants and causing bother (Figures 1
and 2) were: leakage due to urgency (880%),frequent urination (750o), leakage due to activity
(750%o), small amounts of leakage (75%) urinary incontinence (75%) and nocturia (63%). The
average bothered rating results show (Figure 3) that all symptoms were reduced by one month of
treatment. There was a significant positive change after one month of treatment, which continued
at month 2 for frequent urination (p   = 0.007,; 0.005), leakage due to urgency (p  =  0.003; 0.002)
and leakage due to activity (p = 0.00 7, 0.005). The average bothered rating for small amounts of
leakage was positive at month 1 and 2 (p    =  0.007; 0.003). The small regression in response seen
at month 2 is likely due to the changed activities during month 2 including increased driving for
long periods and camping in the rain.
[0159]     The results of the questionnaire were analyzed using the paired t-test. There was a
significant positive change after one month of treatment forfrequent urination (p     =  0.00 7),
leakage due to urgency (p = 0.003), leakage due to activity (p = 0.007), and small amounts of
leakage (p   = 0.007).
         Incontinence Impact Questionnaire
[0160]     The activities that showed to be most impacted on by incontinence and OAB (Figure 4)
were: physical recreation, travel greater than 30 minutes from home and feeling frustrated, which
were experienced by 63% of participants
[0161]     The results of the questionnaire were analyzed using the paired t-test (Table 5 and
Figure 4). The results clearly show that Quality of Life (assessed through difficulty in doing
daily and social activities as well as emotional health and feelings of frustration) are adversely
affected by having the symptoms of incontinence. By month one there was an improvement in
the perception of the effect of incontinence on lifestyle and social activities, which continued to
month 2 indicated by positive changes in response to all questions, including the most
bothersome responses; physical recreation (p = 0. 014; 0.014), travel greater than 30 minutes
from home (p = 0.007; 0.009) and feeling frustrated (p = 0.013; 0.013).
                                                   37

           Table 5 - Results of paired t-test (p-values) Urinary Distress Inventory and Incontinence
                                              Impact Questionnaire
Urinary Distress Inventory
                                 Leakage        Leakage       Small amounts     Difficulty
                    Frequent      due to       related to       of leakage      emptying        Pain or
  T-test results    Urination    urgency        activity         (drops)         bladder      discomfort
                                                                                   Not            Not
  0 vs 1 month          *            *              *                *         significant    significant
                                                                                   Not            Not
  0 vs 2 month          *            *              *                *         significant    significant
* = p values<0.05
Incontinence Impact Questionnaire
                                                                      Travel
                                                                  greater than
                    Household     Physical      Entertainment     30 min from     Social    Emotional      Feeling
  T-test results      chores     recreation        activities          home      activities    health     frustrated
                                                                                    Not
  0 vs 1 month           *             *               *                 *      significant      *             *
  0 vs 2                                                                            Not
 months                  *             *               *                 *      significant      *             *
* = p values<0.05
[0162]      Participants were also asked, at the month 1 interview, if the treatment had improved
their Quality of Life. Overall, 88% reported an improvement in QOL, at month 2 this increased
to 100%. These results clearly indicate that there is a significant improvement in QOL for
participants that experience relief or a reduction in the severity in the symptoms of urinary
incontinence and OAB, including frequency, nocturia, urgency and bladder discomfort.
          Effectiveness of other urinary incontinence and overactive bladder therapeutics
[0163]      Earlier studies show that treatment with Crateva relieves incontinence, pain and
retention of urine in men and that Crateva and Horsetail combined improves symptoms of
urinary incontinence and quality of life. Deshpande P.J. et al., Indian J. Med. Res., 76
(Suppl):46-53 (1982); Steels et al, ACJ (2002); Schauss et al, FASEB (2006).
[0164]      Commonly prescribed drug medications for UI and OAB e.g., oxybutynin
hydrochloride, primarily act to inhibit the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on the smooth
muscle of the bladder producing a direct antispasmodic action to relax the detrusor muscle.
Wada Y. et al., Arch. Int. Pharmacodyn. Ther., 330(1):76-89 (1995); Tapp A.J.S. et al., Brit. J.
Obstetrics Gynecology, 97: 521-6 (1990). These medications also produce unwanted
                                                         38

anticholinergic effects, such as dry mouth, blurred vision and constipation. Pathak AS, Aboseif
SR. Overactive Bladder: Drug therapy versus nerve stimulation. Nat Clin Pract Urol, 2(7):3 10
311, (2005). UI/OAB bladder control preparation was not associated with any side effects.
[0165]    Herbal medications have previously shown effectiveness for UI and OAB without these
unwanted anticholinergic side effects; however, the duration of treatment needed for these
effects are two to three months. Steels et al ACJ (2002); Schauss et al, FASEB (2006). This
study has shown that UI/OAB bladder control preparation reduced symptoms of UI and OAB
and improved quality of life within a 2 to 4 week timeframe.
CONCLUSION
[0166]    The results of this study indicate that UI/OAB bladder control preparation was effective
in reducing symptoms of urinary incontinence and OAB, including frequency, nocturia,
incontinence and urgency. Symptom relief occurred after two weeks of treatment, with the
severity of symptoms reducing further at month 1. Earlier herbal combinations had shown
effectiveness over a 2 to 3 month period.
[0167]    The UI/OAB bladder control preparation assessed in this trial was suitable for both men
and women, did not produce any anticholinergic or other major side effects and halved pad usage
after one month of treatment.
[0168]    This study shows that the herbal combination of C. nurvala, E. arvense and
L. aggregatashows increased effectiveness in reducing symptoms of UI and OAB and
improving quality of life than previous herbal combination formulations and within a shorter
timeframe.
EXAMPLE 2: COMPARISON OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE DIFFERENT HERBAL
                 FORMULATIONS (FORMULATION 3 AND UI/OAB BLADDER CONTROL
                 PREPARATION) FOR USE IN THE PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF
                 URINARY INCONTINENCE AND OVERACTIVE BLADDER (OAB)
GENERAL
[0169]    The aim of this study was to compare the efficacy of two formulations, Formula 3 (as
described above in Example 4 of U.S. Patent No. 7,378,115) and UI/OAB test preparation
(presently described compositions) in treating the symptoms of urinary incontinence and OAB
by analysing the results of the Incontinence Impact Questionnaire (IIQ) and the Urogenital
                                                   39

Distress Inventory (UDI) and day and night time urinary frequency from each of the studies on
the individual formulations. Formula 3 had an E. arvense extract standardized for silicon and
flavonoid content combined with C. nurvala and minerals, as provided above and in Example 4
of U.S. Patent No. 7,378,115. UI/OAB bladder control preparation uses a combination of non
standardized E. arvense extract combined with C. nurvala and L. aggregataand was assessed in
Example 1.
        Study Design
[0170]    In order to directly compare the effectiveness of the two different tablet formulations,
percent (%) reduction in frequency of urination and nocturia for each formulation were directly
assessed and compared. In addition, bothered ratings for both questionnaires at month 1 were
compared. This method of analysis was used for comparison as month 0 (baseline) values in
each of the studies varied.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
[0171]    The results of the number (%) of people on each formula experiencing symptoms at
Month 1 was assessed and compared. Comparison of the frequency of urination and nocturia
indicate that UI/OAB bladder control formula was more effective in reducing the frequency of
urination during the day (35% reduction at month 1 for UI/OAB formula compared to 25%
reduction at month 1 for Formula 3). UI/OAB formula was also superior to Formula 3 in
reducing nocturia with an 86% reduction at month 1 compared to 40% reduction at month 1 for
Formula 3.
                          Table 6: Percent Decrease in Frequency of Urination
                                          Day                           Night
                                Formula 3      UI/OAB        Formula 3      UI/OAB test
                                               test prep                        prep
      Month 0 vs Month 1            26             35            40              86
[0172]    The results of the number (%) of people bothered by their symptoms was also assessed
and compared. The results from the Urinary Distress Inventory (UDI) indicate that the UI/OAB
bladder control preparation had a higher effectiveness at month 1, as compared to Formula 3
(Figure 5; Table 6).
[0173]    UI/OAB test preparation showed a higher percentage reduction at month 1 for frequent
urination, leakage due to feeling of urgency and activity and small amounts of leakage (drops).
Results for difficulty empting bladder have been included; however, due to the low number of
                                                  40

participants experiencing this symptom for UI/OAB bladder control formulation, the results were
not significant.
[0174]    Month 1 results for UI/OAB bladder control preparation were more comparable to
month 3 results for Formula 3, showing that UI/OAB bladder control preparation produces
results within a much shorter timeframe.
[0175]    Comparison of the Incontinence Impact Questionnaire (TTQ) also indicated that UI/OAB
bladder control preparation had a faster and better response (shown by reduction in symptoms) to
all the QOL questions than Formula 3 at month 1.
  Table 7 - Percent reduction in bothered rating of UDI for UI/OAB bladder control preparation
                         and Formula 3 at month 1 and Formula 3 at month 3
                                                  UIOAB BC     Formula 3     Formula 3
                                                   Preparation  Month 1       Month 3
                                                    Month 1
         Frequent Urination                            69          6             71
         Leakage due to urgency                        71         26             74
         Leakage related to activity                   65         33             68
         Small amounts of leakage (drops)              73         28             66
         Difficulty in emptying bladder                66         18             63
CONCLUSION
[0176]    The results of this study indicate that UI/OAB bladder control preparation is safe and
was not associated with major adverse reactions. It was effective in reducing symptoms of
urinary incontinence and OAB, including frequency, nocturia, incontinence and urgency.
[0177]    As suggested by the results in Table 7 and Figure 5, UI/OAB bladder control
preparation gave symptom relief with the severity of symptoms reduction being faster and more
marked than for Formula 3 at month 1 of treatment. UI/OAB gave greater reduction in urinary
frequency in the day 35 versus 26% reduction) and nocturia (86 versus 40% reduction) at month
1. Results produced by UI/OAB bladder control preparation after one month of treatment were
comparable, and in some instances better than those produced by Formula 3 after 3 months of
treatment.
[0178]    In summary, UI/OAB bladder control formula, containing C. nurvala, E. arvense and
L. aggregatashowed improved and faster effectiveness in reducing symptoms of urinary
incontinence and OAB when compared to earlier herbal combinations shown to be effective in
this area. This combination of C. nurvala, and L. aggregatawith non-standardized E. arvense
                                                   41

showed superior results over the Formula 3 containing C. nurvala, E. arvense standardized for
silicon and flavonoids and minerals.
[0179]    These two examples indicate that the composition and method described herein are
effective in helping subjects control their symptoms of UI/OAB and other bladder control
problems without the side effects of traditional medical treatments and provide effective
prevention or treatment of the symptoms of UI/OAB in a much shorter term than the prior herbal
treatments.
EXAMPLE 3: CASE STUDIES
Case 1
[0180]    45 year old male with a history of bladder frequency since childhood. He was
diagnosed as a child, via cystometric studies, as having a small bladder. He was not medicated.
[0181]    He presented urinary frequency, every 1.5 hours; nocturia (waking for the toilet at
night) every 1.5 to 2.5 hours.
[0182]    If he consumed large quantities of alcohol (greater than 8 standard drinks), he would
experience flooding nocturesis (bed wetting). In anticipation of nocturesis, he would lay down
towels on bed when drinking.
[0183]    After 2 weeks on the herb-containing natural therapeutic bladder control preparation, he
noticed improvement in day and night urinary frequency. Improvements in energy throughout
the day were linked with reduction in night frequency. After 4 weeks, he was experiencing
periods of up to 6.5 hours in the day without the need for urination. Nocturia was an average of
1 by this stage.
[0184]    He then went on holiday for 2 weeks where daily drinking of alcohol was involved. He
expected the nocturesis to recur but found he had full bladder control overnight over the entire 2
weeks.
[0185]    After two months on the herb-containing natural therapeutic bladder control
preparation, his bladder control was in the 'normal' classification of 6-8 times daily urination
and maximum of one episode of nocturia per night. He also had no nocturesis.
                                                 42

Case 2
[0186]    73 year old woman with stress incontinence (2-7 times daily) and urinary frequency
(11 times daily). She had previously tried Detrol and oral oxybutynin but could not tolerate the
side effects of dry mouth and nasal passages. When presented, she was using oxybutynin
patches (Oxytrol). A specialist recommended that she change patches every 3 days. She found
the drying side effects still occurred but to a lesser degree, so the patches were more tolerable.
The patches produced a rash for her as well so she was actively seeking an alternative.
[0187]    She stopped the oxybutynin patches (after the recommended 3 day period) and then
commenced on the herb-containing natural therapeutic bladder control preparation. Within two
weeks, she was experiencing the same effects as the patches but without the side effects. The
patient had no discernable side effects from the herb-containing natural therapeutic bladder
control preparation. She has now been on the herb-containing natural therapeutic bladder control
preparation for 9 weeks, has had no incontinence episodes, and has normal urinary frequency.
Case 3
[0188]    63 year old male presented with interstitial cystitis that had been worsening for at least
the past 5 years. He presented with penile pain (and some lower abdominal pain) that would
increase in intensity the fuller his bladder, with relief on urination. As a result, he would need to
urinate at least every 1.5 hours, day and night. If he went too long, the pain would increase to
the point where he found it extremely difficult to walk or move. Every month, he would have an
episode, usually during the night, where he would pass copious amounts of blood and some
mucous from the bladder.
[0189]    He would also find that every two weeks his symptom severity would increase and he
would have 'horrific, sharp pain all day every day" for two days. He would urinate every half
hour over these two days.
[0190]    He is a farmer and whilst with frequent urination he could 'manage' his condition, he
was finding it increasingly difficult, for example, especially if he was in the middle of an activity
such as harvesting or 'under a truck doing repairs'. Also, he was extremely fatigued due to
waking in pain and needing to empty his bladder every 1.5 hours.
[0191]    He had been under the care of a urologist for two years. However, drug therapy is not
an option for him.
                                                   43

[0192]     One year ago he had a bladder expansion procedure with good success. He had slight
bleeding from the bladder post-operatively but had symptom relief, which lasted about three
months. He had another bladder expansion procedure 6 months after the first and did not
respond as well. He had much greater blood loss post-operatively and his symptoms worsened
significantly. It took three months for him to recover to the point he was at prior to the
procedure. He is not willing to undergo another bladder expansion procedure.
[0193]    After three weeks on a double dose of the herb-containing natural therapeutic bladder
control preparation (4 capsules daily), he felt an unusual sensation in the bladder and then for
three or four days, when urinating, he would pass predominantly blood and mucous.
[0194]    After the fourth day, his urine returned back to normal and his daytime penile pain did
not reoccur. He was going to the toilet every 2.5 hours. Also, at night he could sleep for 2.5
hours before the pain would wake him for the toilet.
[0195]     He continued with the double dose of the herb-containing natural therapeutic bladder
control preparation and at the 2.5 month stage his overall pain is "minimal" and he can go up to 4
hours without having to get up at night for the toilet.
[0196]     The pain does still recur twice weekly for half a day where he needs to urinate every
hour (previously this would occur every two weeks and he would need to urinate every half hour
for 2 days). He did have a slight bleed from the bladder in the middle of the night at the month 2
stage. Otherwise there has been no blood loss from the bladder since three weeks of treatment.
[0197]     If all is progressing well, at 3 months his dose will be reduced to 2 capsules daily.
EQUIVALENTS
[0198]     This invention has been described in terms of specific embodiments set forth in detail
herein, but it should be understood that these are by way of illustration and the invention is not
necessarily limited thereto. Modifications and variations will be apparent from the disclosure
and may be resorted to without departing from the spirit of the invention as those of skill in the
art will readily understand. Accordingly, such variations and modifications are considered to be
within the purview and scope of the invention and the following claims.
                                                    44

[0199] Definitions of the specific embodiments of the invention as claimed herein follow.
[0200] According to a first embodiment of the invention, there is provided an herb-containing
composition, comprising:
               (i)     a Crateva nurvala extract preparation;
               (ii)    an Equisetum arvense extract preparation; and
               (iii)   a Lindera aggregateextract preparation,
wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
[0201] According to a second embodiment of the invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical
composition comprising the herb-containing composition of the first embodiment and a
pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
[0202] According to a third embodiment of the invention, there is provided an herb-containing
composition, comprising:
               (i)     a Crateva nurvala stem/bark extract preparation present;
               (ii)    an Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation; and
               (iii)   a Lindera aggregateroot extract preparation;
               wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit,
and
               wherein the Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation and the Lindera
        aggregataroot extract preparation are present at the same concentration.
[0203] According to a fourth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a pharmaceutical
composition comprising the herb-containing composition of the third embodiment and a
pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
[0204] According to a fifth embodiment of the invention, there is provided a method for the
prevention or treatment of the symptoms of urinary incontinence or overactive bladder,
comprising administering an herb-containing composition to a subject in need thereof, the herb
containing composition comprising:
                       (i)    a Crateva nurvala extract preparation;
                       (ii)   an Equisetum arvense extract preparation; and
                       (iii)  a Lindera aggregateextract preparation;
        wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
[0205] According to a sixth embodiment of the invention, there is provided use of:
                       (i)    a Crateva nurvala extract preparation;
                       (ii)   an Equisetum arvense extract preparation; and
                       (iii)  a Lindera aggregateextract preparation,
                                               45

in the manufacture of a medicament for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of urinary
incontinence or overactive bladder, wherein the medicament is formulated as an oral dosage
unit.
[0206] The term 'comprise' and variants of the term such as 'comprises' or 'comprising' are
used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but not to exclude any
other integer or any other integers, unless in the context or usage an exclusive interpretation of
the term is required.
[0207] Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission that the
disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
[0208] All publications, patents, and patent applications cited in this Specification are hereby
incorporated by reference in their entirety.
[0209] Further embodiments of the invention are defined in the following paragraphs:
        1.      An herb-containing composition, comprising:
                (i)     a Crateva nurvala extract preparation;
                (ii)    an Equisetum arvense extract preparation; and
                (iii)   a Lindera aggregateextract preparation,
                wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
        2.      The herb-containing composition of paragraph 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala
preparation is present at a concentration from about 1 g to about 18 g dry weight equivalents
per oral dosage unit, the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is present at a concentration
from about 750 mg to about 12 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, and the Lindera
aggregataextract preparation is present at a concentration from about 750 mg to about 12 g dry
weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
        3.      The herb-containing composition of paragraph 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala
preparation is present at a concentration from about 3 g to about 12 g dry weight equivalents
per oral dosage unit, the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is present at a concentration
from about 1.5 g to about 6 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, and the Lindera
aggregataextract preparation is present at a concentration from about 1.5 g to about 6 g dry
weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
        4.      The herb-containing composition of paragraph 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala
preparation is present at a concentration from about 4 g to about 8 g dry weight equivalents per
oral dosage unit, the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is present at a concentration from
about 2 g to about 4 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, and the Lindera aggregata
extract preparation is present at a concentration from about 2 g to about 4 g dry weight
                                                 46

equivalents per oral dosage unit.
       5.      The herb-containing composition of any one of paragraphs I to 4, wherein the
composition has at least one of the following:
               (i)     the Crateva nurvala extract preparation is a stem/bark extract
preparation;
               (ii)    the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is a stem extract preparation;
and
               (iii)   the Lindera aggregateextract preparation is a root extract preparation.
       6.      The herb-containing composition of any one of paragraphs I to 5, wherein the
herb-containing composition is formulated in a dry delivery system.
       7.      The herb-containing composition of any one of paragraphs I to 5, wherein the
herb-containing composition is formulated in a liquid delivery system.
       8.      The herb-containing composition of any one of paragraphs 1 to 5, wherein the
herb-containing composition is formulated in a controlled-release vehicle.
       9.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising the herb-containing composition of
any one of paragraphs 1 to 8 and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
        10.    An herb-containing composition, comprising:
               (i)     a Crateva nurvala stem/bark extract preparation;
               (ii)    an Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation; and
               (iii)   a Lindera aggregateroot extract preparation;
               wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit,
and
               wherein the Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation and the Lindera
aggregataroot extract preparation are present at the same concentration.
        11.    The herb-containing composition of paragraph 10, wherein the Crateva nurvala
stem/bark preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 3,000 mg dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit.
        12.    The herb-containing composition of paragraph 10 or 11, wherein the Equisetum
arvense stem extract preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry
weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
        13.    The herb-containing composition of paragraph 10, 11 or 12, wherein the Lindera
aggregataroot extract preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry
weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
        14.    A pharmaceutical composition comprising the herb-containing composition of
                                                47

any one of paragraphs 10 to 13 and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
         15.     The herb-containing composition of any one of paragraphs 10 to 13, wherein the
oral dosage unit is selected from the group consisting of: a tablet, dry powder, capsule, and
caplet.
         16.     A method for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of urinary
incontinence or overactive bladder, comprising administering an herb-containing composition
to a subject in need thereof, the herb-containing composition comprising:
                         (i)      a Crateva nurvala extract preparation;
                         (ii)     an Equisetum arvense extract preparation; and
                         (iii)    a Lindera aggregateextract preparation;
                 wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
         17.     The method of paragraph 16, wherein the treatment results in a reduction in at
least one of (i) urinary incontinence and (ii) overactive bladder symptom after about two weeks.
         18.     The method of paragraph 16, wherein the treatment results in a reduction in at
least one of (i) urinary incontinence and (ii) overactive bladder symptom after about one month.
         19.     The method of paragraph 16, wherein, compared to a subject not administered
the herb-containing composition, the treatment results in an improvement of at least one of:
                 (i)     average daily frequency of urination;
                 (ii)    average nightly frequency of urination;
                 (iii)   total urinary incontinence episodes;
                 (iv)    stress incontinence episodes; and
                 (v)     urinary urgency episodes.
        20.      The method of any one of paragraphs 16 to 19, further comprising at least one of
the following:
                 (i)     extracting the Crateva nurvala preparation from Crateva nurvala
stem/bark at an extract ratio of between about 25 and 35;
                 (ii)    extracting the Equisetum arvense extract preparation from Equisetum
arvense stem at an extract ratio of about 10; and
                 (iii)   extracting the Lindera aggregatapreparation from Lindera aggregata
root at an extract ratio of about 10.
        21.      Use of:
                         (i)      a Crateva nurvala extract preparation;
                         (ii)     an Equisetum arvense extract preparation; and
                         (iii)    a Lindera aggregateextract preparation,
                                                  48

        in the manufacture of a medicament for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of
urinary incontinence or overactive bladder, wherein the medicament is formulated as an oral
dosage unit.
                                              49

WHAT IS CLAIMED:
        1.      An herb-containing composition, comprising:
                (i)     a Crateva nurvala extract preparation;
                (ii)    an Equisetum arvense extract preparation; and
                (iii)   a Lindera aggregateextract preparation,
                wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
        2.      The herb-containing composition of claim 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala
preparation is present at a concentration from about 1 g to about 18 g dry weight equivalents
per oral dosage unit, the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is present at a concentration
from about 750 mg to about 12 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, and the Lindera
aggregataextract preparation is present at a concentration from about 750 mg to about 12 g dry
weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
        3.      The herb-containing composition of claim 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala
preparation is present at a concentration from about 3 g to about 12 g dry weight equivalents
per oral dosage unit, the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is present at a concentration
from about 1.5 g to about 6 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, and the Lindera
aggregataextract preparation is present at a concentration from about 1.5 g to about 6 g dry
weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
        4.      The herb-containing composition of claim 1, wherein the Crateva nurvala
preparation is present at a concentration from about 4 g to about 8 g dry weight equivalents per
oral dosage unit, the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is present at a concentration from
about 2 g to about 4 g dry weight equivalents per oral dosage unit, and the Lindera aggregata
extract preparation is present at a concentration from about 2 g to about 4 g dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit.
        5.      The herb-containing composition of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the
composition has at least one of the following:
                (i)     the Crateva nurvala extract preparation is a stem/bark extract
preparation;
                (ii)    the Equisetum arvense extract preparation is a stem extract preparation;
and
                (iii)   the Lindera aggregateextract preparation is a root extract preparation.
        6.      The herb-containing composition of any one of claims I to 5, wherein the herb
containing composition is formulated in a dry delivery system.
                                                 50

        7.      The herb-containing composition of any one of claims I to 5, wherein the herb
containing composition is formulated in a liquid delivery system.
        8.      The herb-containing composition of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the herb
containing composition is formulated in a controlled-release vehicle.
        9.      A pharmaceutical composition comprising the herb-containing composition of
any one of claims 1 to 8 and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
        10.     An herb-containing composition, comprising:
                (i)     a Crateva nurvala stem/bark extract preparation;
                (ii)    an Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation; and
                (iii)   a Lindera aggregateroot extract preparation;
                wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit,
and
                wherein the Equisetum arvense stem extract preparation and the Lindera
aggregataroot extract preparation are present at the same concentration.
        11.     The herb-containing composition of claim 10, wherein the Crateva nurvala
stem/bark preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 3,000 mg dry weight
equivalents per oral dosage unit.
        12.     The herb-containing composition of claim 10 or 11, wherein the Equisetum
arvense stem extract preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry
weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
        13.     The herb-containing composition of claim 10, 11 or 12, wherein the Lindera
aggregataroot extract preparation is present at a concentration of at least about 1,500 mg dry
weight equivalents per oral dosage unit.
        14.     A pharmaceutical composition comprising the herb-containing composition of
any one of claims 10 to 13 and a pharmaceutically-acceptable carrier.
        15.     The herb-containing composition of any one of claims 10 to 13, wherein the oral
dosage unit is selected from the group consisting of: a tablet, dry powder, capsule, and caplet.
        16.     A method for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of urinary
incontinence or overactive bladder, comprising administering an herb-containing composition
to a subject in need thereof, the herb-containing composition comprising:
                        (i)     a Crateva nurvala extract preparation;
                        (ii)    an Equisetum arvense extract preparation; and
                        (iii)   a Lindera aggregateextract preparation;
                wherein the herb-containing composition is formulated as an oral dosage unit.
                                                 51

         17.    The method of claim 16, wherein the treatment results in a reduction in at least
one of (i) urinary incontinence and (ii) overactive bladder symptom after about two weeks.
         18.    The method of claim 16, wherein the treatment results in a reduction in at least
one of (i) urinary incontinence and (ii) overactive bladder symptom after about one month.
         19.    The method of claim 16, wherein, compared to a subject not administered the
herb-containing composition, the treatment results in an improvement of at least one of:
                (i)      average daily frequency of urination;
                (ii)     average nightly frequency of urination;
                (iii)    total urinary incontinence episodes;
                (iv)     stress incontinence episodes; and
                (v)      urinary urgency episodes.
        20.     The method of any one of claims 16 to 19, further comprising at least one of the
following:
                (i)      extracting the Crateva nurvala preparation from Crateva nurvala
stem/bark at an extract ratio of between about 25 and 35;
                (ii)     extracting the Equisetum arvense extract preparation from Equisetum
arvense stem at an extract ratio of about 10; and
                (iii)    extracting the Lindera aggregatapreparation from Lindera aggregata
root at an extract ratio of about 10.
        21.     Use of:
                         (i)      a Crateva nurvala extract preparation;
                         (ii)     an Equisetum arvense extract preparation; and
                         (iii)    a Lindera aggregateextract preparation,
        in the manufacture of a medicament for the prevention or treatment of the symptoms of
urinary incontinence or overactive bladder, wherein the medicament is formulated as an oral
dosage unit.
Date: 13 February 2018
                                                  52

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
