   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                              - 27
                                                           ABSTRACT
   A greeting card stored-value card combinations and methods of forming said combinations
   are provided. In one embodiment, these combinations include a greeting card comprising
 5 means for affixing a stored-value card thereto. These combinations also include a stored
   value card affixed to the greeting card. A single identifier, such as a Stock-Keeping Unit
   (SKU) or a Universal Product Code (UPC), is assigned to the bundle that uniquely
   identifies the bundled greeting card and stored-value card. The single identifier provides
   identification means allowing the stored-value card to be activated. A single capture of the
10 single identifier enables the customer to both purchase the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product as well as to activate the store-value card.

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
       SYSTEM FOR PACKAGING, PROCESSING, AND ACTIVATING A BUNDLED
                                                           GREETING AND GIFT CARD
   Cross-Reference to Related Applications
 5
   The disclosure of the complete specification of Australian Patent Application Nos.
   2010333742 AND <removed-apn>, as originally filed and as amended, is incorporated herein
   by reference.
10 Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to a greeting card stored-value card combination product; a
   computer implemented method for processing a sale of the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product; a system for processing a sale of the greeting card stored-value card
15 combination product; and a system for providing a customer choice in selecting the
   greeting card stored-value card combination product.
   Background of the Invention
20 Stored-value cards and greeting cards are often combined by consumers for gifting.
   Typically, when purchasing these items, the stored-value card and the greeting card must
   be purchased separately;                                thus, involving two separate transactions. The purchase
   transaction for a greeting card is typically conducted at a point of sale (POS) terminal by
   reading the associated bar code that is imprinted on the greeting card. Like a greeting card,
25 a stored-value card's purchase transaction typically occurs at a POS terminal. However, a
   stored-value card is typically purchased and activated by some combination of the
   following steps: (a) a POS terminal reads a bar code imprinted on the packaging associated
   with the stored-value card, (b) a POS terminal reads a bar code that is imprinted on the
   stored-value card, and (c) the stored-value card's magnetic strip is swiped at the terminal.
30 However, as described above, the process for purchasing a greeting card and a stored-value
   card together can be rather cumbersome.

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           -2
   It is generally desirable to overcome or ameliorate one or more of the above described
   difficulties, or to at least provide a useful alternative.
 5 Summary of the Invention
   According to the present invention, there is provided a greeting card stored-value card
   combination product, comprising:
                  a greeting card;
10                a stored-value card;
                  a means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card;
                  a card identifier uniquely identifying the stored-value card, wherein, upon capture
   by a point of sale terminal, the card identifier provides a means for activating the stored
   value card; and
15                a bundled identifier encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored
   value card, wherein upon capture by the point of sale terminal, the bundled identifier
   identifies the combination of the greeting card and the stored value card, the greeting card,
   and the stored-value card for purchase of the combination product, and wherein the
   bundled identifier comprises information uniquely identifying a greeting card issuer and a
20 stored-value card issuer.
   According to the present invention, there is also provided a greeting card stored-value card
   combination product, comprising:
                  a greeting card;
25                a stored-value card, wherein the stored-value card is selectable bya customer for
   association with the greeting card at time of purchase;
                  a means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card; and
                  an identifier encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored-value card,
   wherein the identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card combination product,
30 the greeting card, and the stored-value card, thereby differentiating the greeting card
   stored-value card combination product, from other combinations of greeting cards and

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           -3
   stored-value cards and providing an identifying means for activating the stored-value card.
   According to the present invention, there is also provided a computer implemented method
   for processing a sale of a greeting card stored value card combination product, the method
 5 comprising:
                  receiving, at a transaction routing service, aa activation request from a point of sale
   terminal wherein the activation request includes an identifier from the greeting card stored
   value card combination product captured at a point of sale terminal, wherein the greeting
   card stored-value card combination product comprises a greeting card, a stored value card,
10 a means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card, and a card identifier
   uniquely identifying the stored-value card and providing a means for activating the stored
   value card, wherein the identifier is encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the
   stored-value card, and wherein the identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product, the greeting card and the stored-value card, thereby differentiating
15 the greeting card stored-value card combination product from other combinations of
   greeting cards and stored-value cards;
                  determining, with the transaction routing service, a card processing service
   corresponding to the identifier;
                 transmitting the activation request to the card processing service from the
20 transaction routing service;
                 receiving, at the transaction routing service, an activation response from the card
   processing service; and
                 transmitting the activation response from the transaction routing service to the point
   of sale terminal.
25
   According to the present invention, there is also provided a computer implemented method
   for processing a sale of a greeting card stored value card combination product, the method
   comprising:
                 receiving, at a transaction routing service, an activation request from a point of sale
30 terminal wherein the activation request includes an identifier from the greeting card stored
   value card combination product captured at a point of sale terminal, wherein the greeting

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           -4
   card stored-value card combination product comprises a greeting card, a stored value card,
   and a means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card, wherein the identifier is
   encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored-value card, and wherein the
   identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card combination product, the greeting
 5 card, and the stored-value card, thereby differentiating the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product from other combinations of greeting cards and stored-value cards and
   providing an identifying means for activating the stored-value card;
                  determining, with the transaction routing service, a card processing service
   corresponding to the identifier;
10               transmitting the activation request to the card processing service from the
   transaction routing service;
                 receiving, at the transaction routing service, an activation response from the card
   processing service; and
                 transmitting the activation response from the transaction routing service to the point
15 of sale terminal.
   According to the present invention, there is also provided a computer implemented method
   for processing a sale of a greeting card stored value card combination product, the method
   comprising:
20               receiving, at a transaction routing service, an activation request from a point of sale
   terminal wherein the activation request includes an identifier from the greeting card stored
   value card combination product captured at a point of sale terminal and a card identifier
   captured at a point of sale terminal, wherein the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product comprises a greeting card, a stored value card, a means for affixing
25 the stored-value card to the greeting card, and the card identifier uniquely identifying the
   stored-value card and providing a means for activating the stored-value card, wherein the
   identifier is encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored-value card, and
   wherein the identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card combination product,
   the greeting card, and the stored-value card, thereby differentiating the greeting card
30 stored-value card combination product from other combinations of greeting cards and
   stored-value cards;

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           -5
                  determining, with the transaction routing service, a card processing service
   corresponding to the card identifier;
                 transmitting the activation request, including the card identifier, to the card
   processing service from the trans action routing service;
 5               receiving, at the transaction routing service, an activation response from the card
   processing service; and
                 transmitting the activation response from the transaction routing service to the point
   of sale terminal.
10 According to the present invention, there is also provided a computer implemented method
   for processing a sale of a greeting card stored value card combination product, the method
   comprising;
                 receiving, at a transaction routing service, an activation request from a point of sale
   terminal wherein the activation request includes an identifier from the greeting card stored
15 value card combination product captured at a point of sale terminal and a card identifier
   uniquely identifying a stored-value card included in the greeting card scored value card
   combination product captured at a point of sale terminal, wherein the greeting card stored
   value card combination product comprises a greeting card, the stored value card, and a
   means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card, wherein the identifier is
20 encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored-value card, and wherein the
   identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card combination product, the greeting
   card, and the stored-value card, thereby differentiating the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product from other combinations of greeting cards and stored-value cards and
   providing an identifying means for activating the stored-value card;
25                determining, with the transaction routing service, a card processing service
   corresponding to the card identifier;
                 transmitting the activation request, including the card identifier, to the card
   processing service from the transaction routing service;
                 receiving, at the transaction routing service, an activation response from the card
30 processing service; and
                 transmitting the activation response from the transaction routing service to the point

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           -6
   of sale terminal.
   According to the present invention, there is also provided a system for processing a sale of
   a greeting card stored-value card combination product, the system comprising:
 5                a greeting card;
                  a stored-value card;
                  a means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card;
                  a card identifier uniquely identifying the stored-value card, wherein the card
   identifier provides a means for activating the stored-value card;
10                an identifier encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored-value card;
   wherein the identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card combination product,
   the greeting card of the combination product, and the stored-value card of the combination
   product, thereby differentiating the greeting card stored-value card combination product
   from other combinations of greeting cards and stored-value cards;
15                a point of sale terminal;
                  a transaction routing service; and
                  a card processing service.
   According to the present invention, there is also provided a system for providing a
20 customer choice in selecting a greeting card stored value card combination product,
   comprising:
                 providing a plurality of greeting cards in a retail location; and
                 providing a plurality of stored-value cards in the retail location;
                  wherein at least a portion of the plurality of greeting cards are associated with at
25 least a portion of the plurality of stored-value cards;
                  wherein the at least a portion of the plurality of greeting cards and the at least a
   portion of the plurality of stored-value cards are configured to allow a customer to select at
   least one of the portion of the plurality of greeting cards and at least one of the portion of
   the plurality of stored-value cards to purchase as the greeting card stored-value card
30 combination product; and
                  wherein one of a selected greeting card and a selected stored-value card comprises

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           -7
   a unique identifier identifying the greeting card stored-value card combination product, the
   selected greeting card of the combination product, and the selected stored-value card of the
   combination product, and configured for allowing the stored-value card to be activated
   contemporaneously with the purchase of the greeting card stored-value card combination
 5 product.
   Disclosed herein are greeting card stored-value card combinations and methods of forming
   said combinations. In one embodiment, these combinations include a greeting card
   comprising means for affixing a stored-value card thereto. These combinations also
10 include a stored-value card affixed to the greeting card. A single identifier, such as a stock
   keeping unit (SKU) or a Universal Product Code, is assigned to the bundle that uniquely
   identifies the bundled greeting card and stored-value card. The single identifier provides
   identification means allowing the stored-value card to be activated. The identifier may be
   imprinted or encoded on the greeting card, the stored-value card, any packaging enclosing
15 the greeting card and stored-value card, or any combination thereof. The SKU may be
   imprinted on the greeting card, stored-value card, and/or packaging as an optically
   readable insignia, such as, for example, a Universal Product Code (UPC). Alternatively,
   the single identifier may be encoded on a magnetic strip deposited on any or all of the
   greeting card, stored-value card, and packaging. As another alternative, the single identifier
20 may be encoded on a Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) chip or tag affixed to one or
   more of the greeting card, stored-value card, and packaging (if any). A single capture of
   the single identifier enables the customer to both purchase the greeting card/stored-value
   card combination product as well as to activate the store-value card.
25 Disclosed herein is also a computer implemented method for processing greeting
   card/stored-value card bundled sales. The method comprises receiving at a stored-value
   card transaction processor an identifier from a greeting card/stored-value card bundled
   product captured at a point of sale terminal wherein the identifier uniquely identifies the
   greeting card/stored-value card combination bundle. The stored-value card transaction
30 processor then activates the stored-value card and updates a datastore of stored-value card
   activation states stored in a datastore in the internal card processing service to indicate that

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           -8
   the stored-value card identified by the identifier has been activated. The stored-value card
   transaction processor then transmits an activation response to the point of sale terminal.
   The stored-value card transaction processor also determines an amount of the purchase
   amount received from the sale of the greeting card/stored-value card bundle to credit an
 5 account associated with the stored-value card issuer, an amount of the purchase amount
   received from the sale of the greeting card/stored-value card bundle to credit to an account
   associated with the card transaction processor, and an amount of the purchase amount
   received form the sale of the greeting card/stored-value card bundle to credit to an account
   associated with the greeting card/stored-value card bundled product selling vendor. The
10 stored-value card transaction processor reconciles each of the accounts to reflect the
   allocation of the purchase amount received and initiates funds transfers between bank
   accounts belonging to the vendor, the card issuer, the purchaser, and the stored-value card
   transaction processor administrator to reflect the allocation.
15 Brief Description of the Drawings
   Preferred embodiments of the present invention are hereafter described, by way of non
   limiting example only, with reference to the accompanying drawings, in which:
20 Figure 1A shows the front of an exemplary bi-fold greeting card for containing a stored
   value card in a greeting card/stored-value card combination;
   Figure TB shows the inside of an exemplary bi-fold greeting card for containing a stored
   value card as well as a stored-value card in a greeting card/stored-value card combination;
   Figure IC shows the back of an exemplary bi-fold greeting card for containing a stored
25 value card in a greeting card/stored-value card combination;
   Figure 2 shows an exemplary system architecture for activating a stored-value card
   purchased in a greeting card/stored-value card combination;
   Figure 3 shows an exemplary flowchart for processing an activation request for a stored
   value card purchased in a greeting card/stored-value card combination; and
30 Figure 4 depicts an alternate method of providing a greeting card/stored-value card
   combination product.

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           -9
   Detailed Description of Preferred Embodiments of the Invention
   In one embodiment, a stored-value card and a greeting card are bundled together where
   both items can be purchased using a single identifier, e.g., a bar code, and the associated
 5 stored-value card is activated using the single identifier. Such a system makes it more
   convenient for both the consumer and sales agent. The single identifier can be a bar code
   that is imprinted on either the Greeting Card or imprinted on the Stored-value Card, or can
   be encoded on the magnetic strip on the Stored-value Card. The identifier can also be a
   Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) tag or chip.
10
   Figure 1A depicts the front 102 of a standard bi-fold greeting card. Figure 2A depicts the
   inside 104 of an exemplary standard bi-fold greeting card with stored-value card 106
   affixed to the inside of the greeting card. Figure 2C depicts the back 108 of an exemplary
   standard bi-fold greeting card containing a bar code 110 which identifies both the greeting
15 card and also uniquely identifies the stored-value card 106 included with the combination.
   This single bar code identifier 110 allows the stored-value card 106 to be activated
   contemporaneously with the purchase of the greeting card stored-value card combination
   without requiring additional identifiers to be determined and entered into a point of sale
   terminal. Although depicted solely on the greeting card, the identifier could also be
20 encoded on the stored-value card as, for example, an optically readable insignia, a
   magnetically encoded strip, or an RFID tag.
   The stored-value card can be affixed to the greeting card with any number of means
   including, for example, by means of glue or by means of sealing the stored-value card to
25 the greeting card with cellophane or some other type of plastic or other material.
   Alternatively, the greeting card may contain a sleeve or jacket configured to hold the
   stored-value card inside the greeting card or have notches cut out of the greeting card
   configured to hold the stored-value card inside the greeting card. As another alternative,
   the stored-value card may be affixed to the outside of the greeting card so that the
30 consumer may see the kind of stored-value card that is included with the greeting card. In
   order to deter fraud, the greeting card and stored-value card may be sealed inside a
   protective packaging, such as a clear cellophane wrapper.

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 10
   The stored-value card is not required to be bundled with a bi-fold greeting card, but can be
   bundled with any type greeting card including, for example, tri-fold and multi-page
   greeting cards. Additionally, the greeting card may include other features such as, for
 5 example, a sound chip to play a pre-recorded song when the card is opened by the recipient
   or a recordable sound chip allowing the consumer to record their own message to be
   played when the greeting card is opened by the recipient.
   Although the greeting card/stored-value card combination is packaged and sold as a single
10 product, the greeting card and the stored-value card need not be manufactured and/or
   issued by the same entity. In some embodiments, the greeting card and the stored-value
   card may be manufactured by and/or issued by or on behalf of the same entity or different
   entities. Furthermore, the vendor selling the greeting card stored-value card combination
   may be the same entity or related entity to the entity issuing the greeting card and/or the
15 entity issuing the stored-value card. However, the vendor selling the combination may not
   be the same or related entity to either of the entities that have issued the greeting card
   and/or the stored-value card. Additionally, the merchant or merchants at which the stored
   value card may be redeemed may be the same, related, or different entity from any of the
   greeting card issuer, stored-value card issuer, and the greeting card/stored-value card
20 combination product selling vendor. Also, the stored-value card transaction processing
   system that is utilized to activate, process, and redeem the stored-value card may be the
   same or related entity to any of the combination selling vendor, greeting card issuer,
   stored-value card issuer, and redeeming merchant. Alternatively, the stored-value card
   transaction processing system may be an entity unrelated to any of the combination selling
25 vendor, greeting card issuer, stored-value card issuer, and redeeming merchant.
   In other embodiments, the greeting card may have multiple identifiers serving different
   functions with at least one identifier that uniquely identifies the greeting card/stored-value
   card combination. Furthermore, the greeting card/stored-value card combination product
30 may be enclosed inside additional packaging with the identification that identifies the
   greeting card/stored-value card combination product imprinted or otherwise encoded on

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 11
   the packaging.
   In one embodiment, the identifier encoded on the greeting card is an optically scannable
   insignia, such as, for example, a bar code. The bar code may be a universal product code
 5 (UPC), e.g., a EAN/UCC-12 or UPC-12 bar code; and a EAN/UCC-128 bar code or UPC
    128 bar code. The bar code may also be one of a European Article Number (EAN), a
   Global Trade Item Number (GTIN), and an Australian Product Number (APN). In other
   embodiments, the identifier encoded on the greeting card is a Radio Frequency
   Identification (RFID) chip affixed to the greeting card. The stored-value card may be, for
10 example, a prepaid credit card, a prepaid calling card, a prepaid stored-value card
   redeemable by a specific merchant or merchants. The stored-value card may be for a
   specific product or service. The stored-value card is typically a wallet sized card of similar
   size to standard credit and debit cards. The stored-value card may include a magnetic strip
   attached to it having an identification uniquely identifying the stored-value card encoded
15 on the magnetic strip and, in some embodiments, it can also identify the greeting
   card/stored-value card combination product. The stored-value card may have an optical
   code imprinted on it in which the optical code includes information uniquely identifying
   the stored-value card. The optical code may be a bar code. The bar code may be a UPC
   code. The stored-value card may have an RFID tag or chip affixed to it which includes an
20 identifier encoded on the RFID tag or chip which uniquely identifies the stored-value card.
   The stored-value card may have its unique identifier encoded on it in more than one way.
   For example, a stored-value card may include both a UPC bar code and a magnetic strip.
   In one embodiment, a single identifier is imprinted or otherwise encoded on the greeting
25 card. The single identifier encodes information sufficient to uniquely identify the particular
   greeting card/stored-value card combination as well as to uniquely identify the stored
   value card thereby allowing the stored-value card to be activated when the greeting
   card/stored-value card combination is purchased (one-step process). The information
   allows the point of sale system or the card processing system to determine the purchase
30 price of the greeting card/stored-value card combination as well as to determine the
   allocation of funds received for the purchase of the combination between the greeting card

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 12
   and the stored-value card.
   Referring now to Figure 2, an exemplary system architecture for activating a stored-value
   card that is part of a greeting card/stored-value card bundle is depicted. The architecture
 5 includes merchants 202, a stored-value card transaction processing system 250, and third
   party card processors 280. The merchants 202 each have point of sale terminals 204 that
   can acquire the identification of the greeting card/stored-value card combination through
   various methods as discussed above. The point of sale terminal 204 is in secure
   communication with the stored-value card transaction processing system 250. This
10 communication may be over the Internet, the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN),
   or over a dedicated communication line. The communication between the point of sale
   terminal 204 and the stored-value card transaction processing system 250 is encrypted for
   security. The communication between the point of sale terminal 204 and the stored-value
   card transaction processing system 250 may utilize a Virtual Private Network (VPN).
15
   The stored-value card transaction processing system 250 comprises a transaction routing
   service 252, an internal card processing service 254, a settlement service 256, a product
   master catalog service 258, and an inventory management service 260. The transaction
   routing service 252 communicates with the point of sale terminal 204 as well as 3rd party
20 card processors 280.
   The point of sale terminal 204 may include various input devices to capture identifiers
   from the greeting card/stored-value card combination product. For example, the point of
   sale terminal 204 may include a bar code reader, a magnetic strip reader, and/or an RFID
25 reader. Other optical readers and other types of input devices may be utilized as well. The
   point of sale terminal 204 may include a keypad for receiving a PIN from the customer if
   the stored-value card requires a PIN to be entered for activation and redemption.
   The transaction routing service 252 receives stored-value card activation requests from the
30 point of sale terminal 204 and determines which card processor to forward the activation
   request, by for example, comparing the identification of the greeting card/stored-value card

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 13
   combination product to be activated to information in the product master catalog service
   258 to determine whether the combination product corresponds to a product for which the
   stored-value card transaction processing system 250 acts as the card processor. Thus, for
   example, if the stored-value card is a stored-value card processed by the stored-value card
 5 transaction processing system 250, then the transaction routing service may forward the
   activation request to the internal card processing service 254 within the stored-value card
   transaction processing system 250 or is one processed by one of the 3rd party card
   processors 280. If the stored-value card is processed by one of the 3rd party card
   processors 280, the transaction routing service 252 routes the activation request to the 3rd
10 party card processor 280 for activation processing. The transaction routing service 252
   receives activation responses from the appropriate one of the 3 rd party card processors
   and transmits the activation response back to the point of sale terminal 204.
   If the transaction routing service 252 determines that the stored-value card is one that is
15 processed by the stored-value card transaction processing system 250 (and not merely an
   activation request for which the stored-value card transaction processing system 250 serves
   as a routing service), the transaction routing service 250 forwards the activation request
   from the point of sale terminal 204 to the internal card processing service 254 which uses
   the information contained in the activation request to determine whether to activate the
20 stored-value card. If the activation request is successful, the internal card processing
   service 254 transmits a successful activation response to the transaction routing service
   252 which forwards the response to the point of sale terminal 204. The internal card
   processing service 254 also updates a datastore of activation states to indicate that the
   stored-value card has been activated. The internal card processing service 254 may also
25 update an inventory management service 260 to indicate that number of greeting
   card/stored-value cards remaining with the merchant 202 after the conclusion of the sale of
   the subject greeting card/stored-value card combination product. The internal card
   processing service 254 may also compare the stored-value card type to types of cards
   issued by the stored-value card issuer in the product master catalog service to help verify
30 that the stored-value card is authentic.

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 14
   The transaction routing service 252 also routes activation information to the settlement
   service 256 if the internal card processing service 254 activates the card. The settlement
   service 256 allocates appropriate portions of the purchase price of the greeting card/stored
   value card combination among the various entities involved in the transaction. These
 5 entities include the appropriate one of the merchants 202 selling the greeting card/stored
   value card combination, the entity issuing the stored-value card, and the stored-value card
   transaction processing system 250 operator. This amount may be a percentage of the
   amount of the selling price of the greeting card/stored-value card combination product. The
   settlement service 256 may also allocate amounts received for the purchase of the greeting
10 card/stored-value card combination to the stored-value card issuer and the stored-value
   card transaction processing system 250 operator.
   Figure 3 depicts a flowchart illustrating an exemplary process for activating a greeting
   card/stored-value card combination. The process begins in block 302 with a point of sale
15 terminal 204 determining a unique identifier from a greeting card/stored-value card bundle.
   If the SKU identifier is a Stored- Value Card Transaction Processing and Routing system
   product (i.e., a product serviced by the Stored-Value Card Transaction Processing and
   Routing system) as determined in block 304, then an activation request is transmitted to the
   stored-value card transaction processing system 250 for routing the transaction in block
20 306. If, in block 308, it is determined that the transaction is from a system partner then the
   system processes the card activation request in block 310. If the activation is successful in
   block 312, then the Stored-Value Card Transaction Processing and Routing System sends
   an activation code to the point of sale terminal 204 in block 314. The Stored-Value Card
   Transaction Processing and Routing System then updates the inventory to reflect that the
25 stored-value card has been activated in block 316. The point of sale terminal 204 receives
   the activation code and caches the activation code in block 318. The point of sale terminal
   204 may print an activation code on the receipt in block 320 if the customer is required to
   perform further actions in order to activate the stored-value card.
30 Returning again to Figures 1A-IC, in some embodiments, the greeting card identifier is
   only sufficient to identify the type of greeting card/stored-value card combination (e.g., the

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 15
   type of greeting card and that the stored-value card is a $25 VISA debit card), but not to
   specifically identify the unique identity of the particular stored-value card contained within
   the greeting card. Such identification would be sufficient to determine the price and
   perhaps the allocation of the purchase money received between the greeting card and the
 5 stored-value card, but it would not be sufficient to allow the stored-value card to be
   activated. In these embodiments, the greeting card may contain a small hole in, for
   example, the back of the greeting card, and the stored-value card may be affixed inside the
   greeting card such that an optical indicia, such as a bar code, may be visible through the
   greeting card and readable by an appropriate scanner or other input device. Purchase and
10 activation of the greeting card/stored-value card combination in such embodiments would
   comprise a two step process. First, the greeting card identifier is ascertained to determine
   the price of the card combination and then, second, the optical indicia on the stored-value
   card which is visible through the greeting card is scanned to ascertain the unique identity
   of the stored-value card and activate the stored-value card.
15
   In other embodiments in which the greeting card identifier is insufficient to uniquely
   identify the stored-value card contained within the greeting card, the stored-value card may
   be encoded with an RFID chip or tag containing information sufficient to uniquely identify
   the stored-value card and activate the stored-value card. In such embodiments, it would not
20 be necessary for the greeting card to contain a hole since the RFID tag is readable by an
   RFID reader without being visible. The RFID on the stored-value card may be utilized
   only for activation purposes or may also be used for redemption purposes as well.
   For fraud protection, in order to activate a stored-value card where the identification
25 encoded on the greeting card is insufficient to uniquely identify the stored-value card, the
   greeting card identification plus the stored-value card identification may be required to be
   transmitted contemporaneously and may be required to correlate to each other to ensure
   that a person has not removed a stored-value card from one greeting card and inserted it
   into a different greeting card that is sold at a lower price. For example, one set of greeting
30 cards/stored-value card combinations may include a $50 stored-value card which may be
   purchased for $55 ($50 stored-value card plus $5 for the greeting card). Another set of

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 16
   greeting card/stored-value card combinations may include $25 stored-value cards which
   may be purchased for $30 ($25 stored-value card plus $5 for the greeting card). Thus, by
   requiring the contemporaneous transmission of both the greeting card identification as well
   as the stored-value card identification, as well as also requiring that the two identifications
 5 correlate with each other, inhibits someone from removing a $50 stored-value card from
   the $55 greeting card/stored-value card combination and inserting it into a $30 greeting
   card/stored-value card combination.
   In other embodiments in which the identification encoded on the greeting card is
10 insufficient to uniquely identify the stored-value card included in the greeting card/stored
   value card combination, the greeting card may not be sealed closed such that the greeting
   card may be opened allowing an identification encoded on the stored-value card to be
   determined by the point of sale terminal operator and submitted with the combination
   purchase and activation request transmitted to a stored-value card transaction processing
15 system. In some embodiments, the identification of the stored-value card is encoded on a
   magnetic strip attached to the stored-value card. Such as embodiment may require the
   point of sale terminal operator to remove the stored-value card and swipe the card through
   a magnetic reader.
20 Returning again to Figure 2, the transaction routing service 252 also routes activation
   information to the settlement service 256 if the internal card processing service 254
   activates the card. The settlement service 256 allocates appropriate portions of the
   purchase price of the greeting card/stored-value card combination among the various
   entities involved in the transaction. These entities include the appropriate one of the
25 merchants 202 selling the greeting card/stored-value card combination, the greeting card
   manufacturer, the entity issuing the stored-value card, and the stored-value card transaction
   processing system 250 operator. The appropriate one of the merchants 202 selling the
   greeting card/stored-value card combination may receive a portion of the purchase amount
   collected by the merchant that has been allocated toward the purchase price of the greeting
30 card. The appropriate one of the merchants 202 selling the greeting card/stored-value card
   combination may also receive a portion of the purchase amount allocated to the stored-

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 17
   value card. This amount may be a percentage of the amount of the denomination of the
   stored-value card. The settlement service 256 may also allocate amounts received for the
   purchase of the greeting card/stored-value card combination to the stored-value card issuer
   and the stored-value card transaction processing system 250 operator.
 5
   In some embodiments, a system at the merchants 202 location or at the point of sale
   terminal 204 determines the amount of money to allocate toward the greeting card by the
   purchase of a greeting card/stored-value card combination product. The merchants may
   then transfer the remaining part of the purchase amount for the greeting card/stored-value
10 card combination product to the stored-value card transaction processing system 250 which
   may then allocate and distribute the remaining funds to the card issuer, the stored-value
   card transaction processing system administrator, and, in some cases, a portion of the price
   allocated to the stored-value card is allocated to be distributed back to the merchant that
   sold the greeting card/stored-value card combination product.
15
   An alternate method of providing a greeting card/stored-value card combination product is
   depicted in Figure 4. In this embodiment, rather than a stored-value card being
   prepackaged with a greeting card, the customer is presented with group 402 of a plurality
   of greeting cards and a group 404 of a plurality of stored-value cards. The customer may
20 select one greeting card from greeting card group A 402 and one stored-value card from
   stored-value card group A 404 and bundle them together into a single product. The
   selected greeting card 410 may comprise a sleeve or other means for affixing the select
   stored-value card 408 to the greeting card 410. The price of any pair of greeting cards and
   stored-value cards selected from this group may be sold for the same price. The group of
25 greeting cards and the group of stored-value cards provides the customer with options for
   different greeting cards appropriate for different occasions and options for selecting the
   appropriate stored-value card suitable for the intended recipient of the greeting card/stored
   value card combination. The stored-value cards may provide a selection of stored-value
   cards usable at different restaurants plus a selection of stored-value cards usable at various
30 and different merchants as well as stored-value cards the are redeemable at a host of
   merchants and locations, such as, for example, a VISA stored-value card. Thus, utilizing

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 18
   only a limited number of greeting cards and stored-value cards, the retailer is able to
   provide the customer with options for exceeding the number of greeting card types or the
   number of stored-value card types without using a significant amount of retail space. Thus,
   the customer has the convenience of purchasing a single item, the bundled greeting card
 5 stored-value card product while still having a large variety of choices among which to
   select.
   Purchasing and activation of a greeting card/stored-value card product in this embodiment
   may require a two step process of obtaining the identification of the greeting card and the
10 stored-value card since the greeting card identification would not uniquely identify the
   stored-value card. Obtaining two identifications could also help with fraud prevention by
   ensuring that the stored-value card and the greeting card bundled by the consumer are
   actually intended to be sold together as a single unit. Alternatively, the identification
   obtained from the stored-value card could identify that the stored-value card is sold with an
15 accompanying greeting card and indicate the price for the combination thereby eliminating
   the need to obtain an identifier from the greeting card. Such an embodiment could be
   suitable for situations in which all greeting cards are sold for the same price thereby
   negating the need for determining whether the greeting card corresponds to the stored
   value card.
20
   Although only certain embodiments of this invention have been described in detail above,
   those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the
   exemplary embodiment without materially departing from the novel teachings and
   advantages of this invention. Accordingly, all such modifications are intended to be
25 included within the scope of this invention.
   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires
   otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising",
   will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or
30 steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.

  C:\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                          - 19
  The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it),
  or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or
  admission or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived
  from it) or known matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of
5 endeavour to which this specification relates.

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 20
   Claims Defining the Invention
    1.           A greeting card stored-value card combination product, comprising:
                  a greeting card;
 5                a stored-value card;
                  a means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card;
                  a card identifier uniquely identifying the stored-value card, wherein, upon capture
   by a point of sale terminal, the card identifier provides a means for activating the stored
   value card; and
10                a bundled identifier encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored
   value card, wherein upon capture by the point of sale terminal, the bundled identifier
   identifies the combination of the greeting card and the stored value card, the greeting card,
   and the stored-value card for purchase of the combination product, and wherein the
   bundled identifier comprises information uniquely identifying a greeting card issuer and a
15 stored-value card issuer.
   2.            A greeting card stored-value card combination product, comprising:
                  a greeting card;
                  a stored-value card, wherein the stored-value card is selectable by a customer for
20 association with the greeting card at time of purchase;
                  a means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card; and
                  an identifier encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored-value card,
   wherein the identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card combination product,
   the greeting card, and the stored-value card, thereby differentiating the greeting card stored
25 value card combination product, from other combinations of greeting cards and stored
   value cards and providing an identifying means for activating the stored-value card.
   3.            A computer implemented method for processing a sale of a greeting card stored
   value card combination product, the method comprising:
30                receiving, at a transaction routing service, aa activation request from a point of sale
   terminal wherein the activation request includes an identifier from the greeting card stored

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 21
   value card combination product captured at a point of sale terminal, wherein the greeting
   card stored-value card combination product comprises a greeting card, a stored value card,
   a means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card, and a card identifier
   uniquely identifying the stored-value card and providing a means for activating the stored
 5 value card, wherein the identifier is encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the
   stored-value card, and wherein the identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product, the greeting card and the stored-value card, thereby differentiating
   the greeting card stored-value card combination product from other combinations of
   greeting cards and stored-value cards;
10                determining, with the transaction routing service, a card processing service
   corresponding to the identifier;
                  transmitting the activation request to the card processing service from the
   transaction routing service;
                 receiving, at the transaction routing service, an activation response from the card
15 processing service; and
                 transmitting the activation response from the transaction routing service to the point
   of sale terminal.
   4.            A computer implemented method for processing a sale of a greeting card stored
20 value card combination product, the method comprising:
                 receiving, at a transaction routing service, an activation request from a point of sale
   terminal wherein the activation request includes an identifier from the greeting card stored
   value card combination product captured at a point of sale terminal, wherein the greeting
   card stored-value card combination product comprises a greeting card, a stored value card,
25 and a means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card, wherein the identifier is
   encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored-value card, and wherein the
   identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card combination product, the greeting
   card, and the stored-value card, thereby differentiating the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product from other combinations of greeting cards and stored-value cards and
30 providing an identifying means for activating the stored-value card;

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           -22
                  determining, with the transaction routing service, a card processing service
   corresponding to the identifier;
                 transmitting the activation request to the card processing service from the
   transaction routing service;
 5               receiving, at the transaction routing service, an activation response from the card
   processing service; and
                 transmitting the activation response from the transaction routing service to the point
   of sale terminal.
10 5.            A computer implemented method for processing a sale of a greeting card stored
   value card combination product, the method comprising:
                 receiving, at a transaction routing service, an activation request from a point of sale
   terminal wherein the activation request includes an identifier from the greeting card stored
   value card combination product captured at a point of sale terminal and a card identifier
15 captured at a point of sale terminal, wherein the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product comprises a greeting card, a stored value card, a means for affixing
   the stored-value card to the greeting card, and the card identifier uniquely identifying the
   stored-value card and providing a means for activating the stored-value card, wherein the
   identifier is encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored-value card, and
20 wherein the identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card combination product,
   the greeting card, and the stored-value card, thereby differentiating the greeting card
   stored-value card combination product from other combinations of greeting cards and
   stored-value cards;
                  determining, with the transaction routing service, a card processing service
25 corresponding to the card identifier;
                 transmitting the activation request, including the card identifier, to the card
   processing service from the trans action routing service;
                 receiving, at the transaction routing service, an activation response from the card
   processing service; and
30               transmitting the activation response from the transaction routing service to the point
   of sale terminal.

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           -23
   6.            A computer implemented method for processing a sale of a greeting card stored
   value card combination product, the method comprising;
                  receiving, at a transaction routing service, an activation request from a point of sale
 5 terminal wherein the activation request includes an identifier from the greeting card stored
   value card combination product captured at a point of sale terminal and a card identifier
   uniquely identifying a stored-value card included in the greeting card scored value card
   combination product captured at a point of sale terminal, wherein the greeting card stored
   value card combination product comprises a greeting card, the stored value card, and a
10 means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card, wherein the identifier is
   encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored-value card, and wherein the
   identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card combination product, the greeting
   card, and the stored-value card, thereby differentiating the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product from other combinations of greeting cards and stored-value cards and
15 providing an identifying means for activating the stored-value card;
                  determining, with the transaction routing service, a card processing service
   corresponding to the card identifier;
                 transmitting the activation request, including the card identifier, to the card
   processing service from the transaction routing service;
20               receiving, at the transaction routing service, an activation response from the card
   processing service; and
                 transmitting the activation response from the transaction routing service to the point
   of sale terminal.
25 7.            A system for processing a sale of a greeting card stored-value card combination
   product, the system comprising:
                  a greeting card;
                  a stored-value card;
                  a means for affixing the stored-value card to the greeting card;
30                a card identifier uniquely identifying the stored-value card, wherein the card
   identifier provides a means for activating the stored-value card;

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                                     - 24
   an identifier encoded on at least one of the greeting card and the stored-value card;
                 wherein the identifier identifies the greeting card stored-value card combination
   product, the greeting card of the combination product, and the stored-value card of the
   combination                 product, thereby            differentiating the greeting card stored-value card
 5 combination product from other combinations of greeting cards and stored-value cards;
                  a point of sale terminal;
                  a transaction routing service; and
                  a card processing service.
10 8.             The system of claim 7, wherein the transaction routing service is operable for
   receiving an activation request from the point of sale terminal,
                 transmitting the activation request to the card processing service,
                 receiving an activation response from the card processing service, and
                 transmitting the activation response to the point of sale terminal.
15
   9.             The system of claim 8, wherein the activation request comprises the identifier from
   the greeting card stored-value card combination product captured at the point of sale
   terminal, wherein the identifier identifies the product and uniquely identifies the stored
   value card.
20
    10.           The system of claim 8, wherein the system further comprises a settlement service.
    11.           The system of claim 10, wherein the settlement service is operable to determine an
   amount of a purchase amount received from a sale of the greeting card stored-value card
25 combination product to credit an account associated with a stored-value card issuer.
    12.           The system of claim 10, wherein the settlement service is operable to determine an
   amount of a purchase amount received from a sale of greeting card stored-value card
   combination product lo credit to an account associated with a card transaction processor.
30

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           - 25
    13.           The system of claim 10, wherein the settlement service is operable to determine an
   amount of a purchase amount received from a sale of the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product to credit to an account associated with a greeting card stored-value
   card combination product selling vendor.
 5
    14.           The system of claim 10, wherein the settlement service is operable to determine an
   amount of a purchase amount received from a sale of the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product to credit to an account associated with a greeting card stored-value
   card combination product greeting card manufacturer.
10
    15.           The system of claim 10, wherein the settlement service is operable to reconcile
   accounts belonging to at least two of the stored-value card issuer, the card transaction
   processor, the greeting card stored-value card combination product selling vendor, and the
   greeting card stored-value card combination product greeting card manufacturer to reflect a
15 proper allocation of a purchase amount received from a sale of the greeting card stored
   value card combination product.
    16.          A system for providing a customer choice in selecting a greeting card stored value
   card combination product, comprising:
20               providing a plurality of greeting cards in a retail location; and
                 providing a plurality of stored-value cards in the retail location;
                  wherein at least a portion of the plurality of greeting cards are associated with at
   least a portion of the plurality of stored-value cards;
                  wherein the at least a portion of the plurality of greeting cards and the at least a
25 portion of the plurality of stored-value cards are configured to allow a customer to select at
   least one of the portion of the plurality of greeting cards and at least one of the portion of
   the plurality of stored-value cards to purchase as the greeting card stored-value card
   combination product; and
                  wherein one of a selected greeting card and a selected stored-value card comprises
30 a unique identifier identifying the greeting card stored-value card combination product, the
   selected greeting card of the combination product, and the selected stored-value card of the

   C:\Interwo n\NRPortbl\DCC\TLD\17233582_l.docx-27 062018
                                                           -26
   combination product, and configured for allowing the stored-value card to be activated
   contemporaneously with the purchase of the greeting card stored-value card combination
   product.
 5  17.           The system of claim 16, wherein the selected stored-value card is activatable by a
   one-step process.
    18.           The system of claim 16, wherein the selected stored-value card is activatable by a
   two-step process.
10
    19.           The system of claim 18, wherein the selected stored-value card is also activatable
   by a one step process.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
