Abstract
In accordance with one embodiment, a method of producing hydrogen gas
meeting a predetermined threshold of purity, may include transferring a quantity
of a hydrogen gas mixture generated by a hydrogen supplier through an
electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein the hydrogen gas mixture has not
previously been passed through any electrochemical cell, and wherein the
electrochemical hydrogen pump includes an anode, a cathode, and an
electrolyte membrane located between the anode and the cathode; separating a
quantity of hydrogen gas from the hydrogen gas mixture by transferring the
hydrogen gas from the anode, through the electrolyte membrane, to the
cathode; collecting the hydrogen gas from the cathode, wherein the collected
hydrogen gas at least meets the predetermined threshold of purity; and
producing a full, written warranty that the collected hydrogen gas meets industry
standard SAE J2719 and has a purity that is at least substantially equal to the
predetermined threshold of purity, wherein the predetermined threshold of purity
is at least 99%.

WO 2014/209418              PCT/US2013/062646
                        2/7
               CN
                    104
                  C
                  0 CL

    METHODS OF PRODUCING AND PROVIDING PURIFIED GAS USING AN
                                       ELECTROCHEMICAL CELL
 [0001]                  This patent application is a divisional application of Australian
 Patent Application No. AU2013396183, the entire disclosure of which is
 incorporated herein by reference. The patent application claims the benefit of
 priority under 35 U.S.C. § 120 to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61/840,843,
 filed on June 28, 2013, the entirety of which is incorporated herein by
 reference.
 [0002]                  Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to electrochemical
 cells, and more particularly, to methods of utilizing electrochemical cells for gas
 purification, monitoring, and/or for providing purified gas.
 [0003]                  Hydrogen has emerged as a viable alternative to traditional power
 sources, such as fossil fuels, for a range of technologies, including, for
 example, transportation vehicles, portable power supplies, and stationary
 power production.                  Successful commercialization of hydrogen as an energy
 carrier and the long-term sustainability of a "hydrogen economy" may depend in
 part on the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of hydrogen manipulation and
 management systems (e.g., EHCs), and hydrogen distribution systems (e.g.,
 dispensing stations).
 [0004]                  Users of hydrogen gas may be sensitive to potential pollutants that
 may exist in the gas, such as CO, C02, N2, He, Ar,                         02, CH4, higher
 hydrocarbons, S, Cl, Br, Hg, VOCs, H20, HCHO, HCOOH, NH3, halogenated
 compounds, and particulates, for example.                     Accordingly, consumers may
 require suppliers to provide purified hydrogen gas, and in some circumstances,
 to meet or exceed a certain threshold of purity of hydrogen gas supplied.
 Suppliers and distributors of hydrogen gas generally guarantee the purity of
 hydrogen supplied by analyzing the composition of the hydrogen gas prior to
 delivery, using, for example, devices such as gas chromatographs, mass
 spectrometers, ionization detectors, and infrared spectrometers.                 Based on
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 analytical measurement of the gas composition recorded using such devices,
 suppliers may then provide consumers with a certificate of analysis for these, or
 other compounds, for the supply of hydrogen gas.                          While such analysis
 methods may be useful for quality control at centralized hydrogen production
 facilities to ensure hydrogen purity, such methods may be prohibitively
 expensive for use at hydrogen fueling stations or hydrogen transfer stations, for
 example. There is, however, a potential for hydrogen produced at a centralized
 facility to become polluted during transport to the point of use. Accordingly, a
 cost-effective method is needed for purifying hydrogen gas, monitoring the
 purity of hydrogen gas, and ensuring a threshold level of purity of the hydrogen
 gas delivered by a supplier to a customer. Also, cost-effective quality control
 and monitoring may be needed for hydrogen production systems, such as
 natural           gas         steam-methane     reformers   and  electrolyzers, for   example.
 Embodiments of the present disclosure may set out to solve one or more of the
 above problems.
 [0005]                  In accordance with one embodiment, there is provided a method of
 producing hydrogen                       gas meeting   a predetermined    threshold of purity,
 comprising: transferring a quantity of a hydrogen gas mixture generated by a
 hydrogen supplier through an electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein the
 hydrogen                gas        mixture  has not  previously  been   passed    through any
 electrochemical cell, and wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump includes
 an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte membrane located between the anode
 and the cathode; separating a quantity of hydrogen gas from the hydrogen gas
 mixture by transferring the hydrogen gas from the anode, through the
 electrolyte membrane, to the cathode; collecting the hydrogen gas from the
 cathode, wherein the collected hydrogen gas at least meets the predetermined
 threshold of purity; and producing a full, written warranty that the collected
 hydrogen gas meets industry standard SAE J2719 and has a purity that is at
 least substantially equal to the predetermined threshold of purity, wherein the
 predetermined threshold of purity is at least 99%.
                                                      -2
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 [0006]                  In accordance with another embodiment, there is provided a
 method of providing hydrogen gas meeting a predetermined threshold of purity,
 comprising: introducing a first quantity of hydrogen gas mixture containing
 hydrogen gas and non-hydrogen to an electrochemical hydrogen pump,
 wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump includes an anode, a cathode, and
 an electrolyte membrane located between the anode and the cathode; directing
 the hydrogen gas mixture from the anode to the electrolyte membrane; passing
 the        hydrogen               gas through the electrolyte membrane   to the cathode;
 substantially preventing the non-hydrogen from passing through the electrolyte
 membrane; collecting the hydrogen gas from the cathode, wherein the
 collected hydrogen gas at least meets the predetermined threshold of purity;
 mixing the collected hydrogen gas with a second quantity of hydrogen gas
 mixture, wherein the second quantity of hydrogen gas mixture has not
 previously been passed through any electrochemical cell, and wherein the
 mixing produces a third quantity of hydrogen gas mixture with a level of purity
 that at least meets the predetermined threshold of purity; and providing at least
 one of a certificate of conformance, a guarantee, or a warranty that the third
 quantity of hydrogen gas mixture has a purity that is at least substantially equal
 to the predetermined threshold of purity.
 [0007]                   In accordance with another embodiment, there is provided a
 method of providing hydrogen gas meeting a predetermined threshold of purity,
 comprising: receiving a quantity of hydrogen gas from a source; dividing the
 quantity of hydrogen gas into a first portion and a second portion; diverting the
 first portion of the quantity of hydrogen gas to an electrochemical hydrogen
 pump, wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump includes an anode, a
 cathode, and an electrolyte membrane located between the anode and the
 cathode; directing the first portion of hydrogen gas from the anode, to the
 electrolyte membrane; passing the first portion of hydrogen gas through the
 electrolyte membrane to the cathode; substantially preventing non-hydrogen in
 the first portion from passing through the electrolyte membrane; reintroducing
 the first portion of hydrogen gas passed through the electrolyte membrane to
 the second portion of hydrogen gas not diverted to the electrochemical
                                                    -3
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 hydrogen pump, wherein the second portion of hydrogen gas has not
 previously been passed through any electrochemical cell; and providing at least
 one of a certificate, a guarantee, or a warranty that the first portion and the
 second portion of hydrogen gas have a purity that is at least substantially equal
 to the predetermined threshold of purity.
 [0008]                  In accordance with another embodiment, there is provided a
 method of providing hydrogen gas meeting a predetermined threshold of purity,
 comprising: introducing a quantity of hydrogen gas mixture containing hydrogen
 gas and non-hydrogen gas to an electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein the
 hydrogen gas mixture was generated by a hydrogen supplier, wherein the
 hydrogen                gas        mixture has not  previously been  passed  through an
 electrochemical cell, and wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump includes
 an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte membrane located between the anode
 and the cathode; directing the hydrogen gas mixture from the anode to the
 electrolyte membrane; passing the hydrogen gas through the electrolyte
 membrane to the cathode; substantially preventing the non-hydrogen gas from
 passing through the electrolyte membrane; collecting the hydrogen gas from
 the cathode, wherein the collected hydrogen                      gas at least meets the
 predetermined threshold of purity; and providing at least one of a certificate, a
 guarantee, or a warranty that the collected hydrogen gas has a purity that is at
 least substantially equal to the predetermined threshold of purity.
 [0009]                  In accordance with another embodiment, there is provided a
 method of producing hydrogen gas meeting a predetermined threshold of
 purity, comprising: transferring a quantity of a hydrogen gas mixture generated
 by a hydrogen supplier through an electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein
 the hydrogen gas mixture has not previously been passed through an
 electrochemical cell, and wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump includes
 an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte membrane located between the anode
 and the cathode; separating a quantity of hydrogen gas from the hydrogen gas
 mixture by transferring the hydrogen gas from the anode, through the
 electrolyte membrane, to the cathode; collecting the hydrogen gas from the
                                                    -4
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 cathode, wherein the collected hydrogen gas at least meets the predetermined
 threshold of purity; and producing at least one of a certificate, a guarantee, or a
 warranty that the collected hydrogen gas has a purity that is at least
 substantially equal to the predetermined threshold of purity.
 [0010]                  Also disclosed herein is a method of producing hydrogen gas
 meeting a predetermined threshold of purity may comprise transferring a
 quantity of a hydrogen gas mixture through an electrochemical hydrogen pump,
 wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump includes an anode, a cathode, and
 an electrolyte membrane                    located between the anode and the cathode;
 separating a quantity of hydrogen gas from the hydrogen gas mixture by
 transferring the hydrogen                   gas from the anode, through    the electrolyte
 membrane, to the cathode; collecting the hydrogen gas from the cathode,
 wherein the collected hydrogen gas at least meets the predetermined threshold
 of purity; and producing a certificate that the collected hydrogen gas has a
 purity that is at least substantially equal to the predetermined threshold of
 purity.
 [0011]                  Various embodiments of the disclosure may include one or more of
 the following aspects:                 the method may further comprise removing from the
 anode a quantity of non-hydrogen gas from the hydrogen gas mixture that the
 electrolyte membrane blocks from passing through the electrolyte membrane to
 the cathode; the method may further comprise delivering the collected
 hydrogen gas to a consumer; the predetermined threshold of purity may be
 above approximately 99% hydrogen; the predetermined threshold of purity may
 be less than approximately 300 parts per million of non-hydrogen gas; and the
 predetermined threshold of purity may be less than approximately 50 parts per
 million of non-hydrogen gas.
 [0012]                  In another embodiment of the disclosure, a method of providing
 hydrogen gas meeting a predetermined threshold of purity may comprise
 introducing a quantity of hydrogen gas mixture containing hydrogen gas and
 non-hydrogen                    gas to an electrochemical  hydrogen   pump, wherein the
 electrochemical hydrogen pump includes an anode, a cathode, and an
                                                    -5
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 electrolyte membrane located between the anode and the cathode; directing
 the hydrogen gas mixture from the anode to the electrolyte membrane; passing
 the        hydrogen               gas through  the electrolyte membrane to the cathode;
 substantially preventing the non-hydrogen gas from passing through the
 electrolyte membrane; collecting the hydrogen gas from the cathode, wherein
 the collected hydrogen gas at least meets the predetermined threshold of
 purity; and mixing the collected hydrogen gas with a second quantity of
 hydrogen gas mixture, wherein the mixing produces a third quantity of
 hydrogen gas mixture with a level of purity that at least meets the
 predetermined threshold of purity.
 [0013]                  Various embodiments of the disclosure may include one or more of
 the following aspects: the method may further comprise providing a warranty
 that the third quantity of hydrogen gas mixture has a purity that is at least
 substantially equal to the predetermined threshold of purity; the method may
 further comprise delivering the third quantity of hydrogen gas to a consumer;
 the first quantity of hydrogen gas mixture and the second quantity of hydrogen
 gas mixture may be both initially derived from a hydrogen gas mixture source,
 and the first quantity, and the second quantity may be separated when the first
 quantity is introduced to the electrochemical hydrogen pump, and the first
 quantity and the second quantity may be rejoined by the mixing; the collected
 hydrogen gas may be mixed with the second quantity of hydrogen gas mixture,
 and the non-hydrogen gas substantially prevented from passing through the
 electrolyte membrane may not be mixed with the second quantity of hydrogen
 gas mixture; the collected hydrogen gas mixed with the second quantity of
 hydrogen gas mixture may be delivered to a consumer; the predetermined
 threshold of purity may                      be above approximately 99%   hydrogen;  the
 electrochemical hydrogen pump may be configured to operate at a pressure of
 above approximately 2,000 psi; the electrochemical hydrogen pump may be
 configured to operate at a pressure of above approximately 5,000 psi; and the
 electrochemical hydrogen pump may be configured to operate at a pressure of
 above approximately 10,000 psi.
                                                     -6
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 [0014]                  In another embodiment, a method of providing hydrogen gas
 meeting a predetermined threshold of purity may comprise providing a quantity
 of hydrogen gas; diverting a first portion of the quantity of hydrogen gas to an
 electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump
 includes an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte membrane located between
 the anode and the cathode; directing the first portion of hydrogen gas from the
 anode, to the electrolyte membrane; passing the first portion of hydrogen gas
 through the electrolyte membrane to the cathode; substantially preventing non
 hydrogen gas in the first portion from                  passing through the electrolyte
 membrane; and reintroducing the first portion of hydrogen gas passed through
 the electrolyte membrane to a second portion of hydrogen gas not diverted to
 the electrochemical hydrogen pump.
 [0015]                  Various embodiments of the disclosure may include one or more of
 the following aspects:              a voltage required to operate the electrochemical
 hydrogen pump may increase as the amount of non-hydrogen gas substantially
 prevented from passing through the electrolyte membrane increases; the
 increase in voltage may be a function of the amount of non-hydrogen gas
 substantially prevented from passing through the electrolyte membrane, and
 the electrochemical hydrogen pump may be calibrated to detect whether the
 first portion of hydrogen gas diverted to the electrochemical hydrogen pump
 falls below the predetermined level of purity; the method may further comprise
 delivering the first portion of hydrogen gas passed through the electrolyte
 membrane and the second portion of hydrogen gas not diverted to the
 electrochemical hydrogen pump to a consumer; the electrochemical hydrogen
 pump may further include a controller and the method may further comprise
 stopping the delivery of the first portion of hydrogen gas to the consumer if the
 controller detects that the hydrogen gas diverted to the electrochemical
 hydrogen pump falls below a predetermined level of purity; the method may
 further comprise producing a warranty that the hydrogen gas delivered to the
 consumer has a purity that is at least substantially equal to the predetermined
 threshold of purity; the method may include sending an amount of the first
 portion of the quantity of hydrogen gas to a measurement device, wherein the
                                                 -7
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 measurement device is configured to measure a purity level of the hydrogen
 gas; the amount of the first portion may be sent from the anode of the
 electrochemical                    hydrogen pump   to  the  measurement     device;  the
 electrochemical hydrogen pump may be configured to operate at a pressure of
 above approximately 2,000 psi; the electrochemical hydrogen pump may be
 configured to operate at a pressure of above approximately 5,000 psi; and the
 electrochemical hydrogen pump may be configured to operate at a pressure of
 above approximately 10,000 psi.
 [0016]                  In another exemplary embodiment, a method of providing hydrogen
 gas meeting a predetermined threshold of purity may comprise introducing a
 quantity of hydrogen gas mixture containing hydrogen gas and non-hydrogen
 gas to an electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein the electrochemical
 hydrogen pump includes an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte membrane
 located between the anode and the cathode; directing the hydrogen gas
 mixture from the anode to the electrolyte membrane; passing the hydrogen gas
 through the electrolyte membrane to the cathode; substantially preventing the
 non-hydrogen gas from passing through the electrolyte membrane; collecting
 the hydrogen gas from the cathode, wherein the collected hydrogen gas at
 least meets the predetermined threshold of purity; and providing a warranty that
 the collected hydrogen gas has a purity that is at least substantially equal to the
 predetermined threshold of purity.
 [0017]                  Various embodiments of the disclosure may include one or more of
 the following aspects: the electrochemical hydrogen pump may be configured
 to operate at a pressure of above approximately 5,000 psi; and the
 electrochemical hydrogen pump may be configured to operate at a pressure of
 above approximately 10,000 psi.
 [0018]                  Additional objects and advantages of the embodiments will be set
 forth in part in the description that follows, and in part will be obvious from the
 description, or may be learned by practice of the embodiments. The objects
 and advantages of the embodiments will be realized and attained by means of
 the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.
                                                  -8
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 [0019]                  It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description
 and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and
 are not restrictive of the invention, as claimed.
 [0020]                  The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and
 constitute a part of this specification, illustrate embodiments of the disclosure,
 and together with the description, serve to explain the principles of the
 disclosure.
 [0021]                  Figure     1  illustrates an  exploded    view   of  an   exemplary
 electrochemical cell, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
 [0022]                  Figure 2A illustrates an exemplary purification method, according to
 an embodiment of the present disclosure.
 [0023]                  Figure 2B illustrates an exemplary purification method, according to
 an embodiment of the present disclosure.
 [0024]                  Figure 3A illustrates an exemplary method for monitoring the purity
 of hydrogen gas, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
 [0025]                  Figure 3B illustrates an exemplary method for monitoring the purity
 of hydrogen gas, according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.
 [0026]                  Figure 4 illustrates an exemplary method for monitoring the purity of
 a quantity of hydrogen gas, according to an embodiment of the present
 disclosure.
 [0027]                  Figure 5 illustrates a flow chart schematically depicting         an
 exemplary purification or monitoring method, according to an embodiment of
 the present disclosure.
 [0028]                  Reference     will   now be   made   in   detail to the   exemplary
 embodiments of the present disclosure described below and illustrated in the
 accompanying drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers will
 be used throughout the drawings to refer to same or like parts.
                                                    -9
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 [0029]                  While the present disclosure is described herein with reference to
 illustrative embodiments of an electrochemical hydrogen pump, it is understood
 that the devices and methods of the present disclosure may be employed with
 various types of electrochemical cells, including, but not limited to, any suitable
 hydrogen compressors, fuel cells, electrolysis cells, hydrogen purifiers, and
 hydrogen expanders. Those having ordinary skill in the art and access to the
 teachings provided herein will recognize additional modifications, applications,
 embodiments, and substitution of equivalents that all fall within the scope of the
 disclosure. Accordingly, the disclosure is not to be considered as limited by the
 foregoing or following descriptions.
 [0030]                  Other features and advantages and potential uses of the present
 disclosure will become apparent to someone skilled in the art from the following
 description of the disclosure, which refers to the accompanying drawings.
 [0031]                  Electrochemical cells are devices typically used for generating
 current from chemical reactions or inducing a chemical reaction using a flow of
 current.            A fuel cell converts the chemical energy of a fuel (e.g., hydrogen,
 natural gas, methanol, gasoline, etc.) and an oxidant (e.g., air or oxygen) into
 electricity and produces heat and water.                        A basic electrochemical cell
 comprises a negatively charged anode, a positively charged cathode, and an
 ion-conducting material called an electrolyte.
 [0032]                  An electrolysis cell is essentially a fuel cell operating in reverse. A
 basic electrolysis cell can function as a hydrogen generator by decomposing
 water into hydrogen and oxygen gases when an external electric potential is
 applied. The basic technology of a hydrogen fuel cell or an electrolysis cell can
 be applied to electrochemical hydrogen manipulation, such as, electrochemical
 hydrogen compression, purification, or expansion.
 [0033]                  An electrochemical hydrogen compressor (EHC), for example, can
 be used to selectively transfer hydrogen from one side of a cell to another.
 EHCs operating in this manner are sometimes referred to as electrochemical
 hydrogen pumps (EHP), and the terms EHP and EHC                                  may be used
                                                    -10
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 interchangeably for the purpose of this disclosure.                 When the hydrogen
 accumulated at the second electrode is restricted to a confined space, the
 electrochemical cell compresses the hydrogen or raises the pressure within the
 confined space.                    The maximum pressure or flow rate an individual cell is
 capable of producing can be limited based on the cell design.                    In some
 embodiments, suitable EHCs may operate at higher pressures, for example,
 above approximately 2,000 psi, above approximately 5,000 psi, or above
 approximately 10,000 psi.
 [0034]                  In an exemplary embodiment, a method for monitoring and
 ensuring hydrogen purity may include the use of an EHP or an EHC.                      As
 discussed above, these devices employ a proton conducting membrane as part
 of the electrochemical cells, and the membrane may allow only protons (i.e.
 hydrogen ions) and water to pass through. By only allowing hydrogen ions and
 water to pass through, other compounds may be physically prevented from
 passing through the membrane. Accordingly, hydrogen gas suppliers may be
 able to use this technology to remove pollutants from hydrogen gas, to monitor
 the presence of pollutants in hydrogen gas, and thus to ensure a certain level
 of purity of hydrogen gas supplied to the consumer. As used herein, "hydrogen
 gas" may include hydrogen meeting a predetermined threshold of purity
 (purified hydrogen gas), hydrogen gas mixed with a quantity of impurities, or
 hydrogen gas suspected of, or potentially mixed with, a quantity of impurities.
 Further, "hydrogen gas mixture" may include hydrogen gas mixed with a
 quantity of impurities, or hydrogen gas suspected of or potentially mixed with a
 quantity of impurities. "Pollutants" may include any non-hydrogen gas, liquid,
 or solid.
 [0035]                  Figure 1 depicts an exploded side view of an electrochemical cell
 100, according to an exemplary embodiment of the present disclosure.
 Electrochemical cell 100 includes an anode 110, a cathode 120, and an
 electrolyte membrane 130 disposed between anode 110 and cathode 120.
 Together, electrolyte membrane 130, anode 110, and cathode 120 may form a
 membrane electrode assembly (MEA) 140.
                                                  -111
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 [0036]                  Electrolyte membrane 130 may electrically insulate anode 110 from
 cathode 120.                     Electrolyte membrane 130 may be any suitable membrane,
 including, e.g., a proton exchange membrane (PEM).                     Electrolyte membrane
 130 may be formed of a pure polymer membrane or a composite membrane,
 which may include, e.g., silica, heteropolyacids, layered metal phosphates,
 phosphates, and zirconium phosphates, embedded in a polymer matrix.
 Electrolyte membrane 130 may be permeable to protons but may not conduct
 electrons. Anode 110 and cathode 120 may include porous carbon electrodes
 containing a catalyst. The catalyst material, e.g., platinum or any other suitable
 material, may speed up the reaction of oxygen and hydrogen.
 [0037]                  Electrochemical cell 100 may further comprise two bipolar plates
 150, 160.                Bipolar plates 150, 160 may act as support plates, conductors,
 provide passages to the respective electrode surfaces for the hydrogen, and
 provide passages for the removal of the compressed hydrogen. Bipolar plates
 150, 160 may also include access channels for cooling fluid (i.e., water, glycol,
 or water glycol mixture).                    The bipolar plates may be made from aluminum,
 steel, stainless steel, titanium, copper, Ni-Cr alloy, graphite or any other
 electrically conductive material or combination of materials. Bipolar plates 150,
 160 may separate electrochemical cell 100 from the neighboring cells in an
 electrochemical stack (not shown). For example, multiple electrochemical cells
 100 may be linked in series to form a multi-stage EHC or stacked in parallel to
 form a single-stage EHC.
 [0038]                  In operation, according to an exemplary embodiment, hydrogen gas
 may be supplied to anode 110 through bipolar plate 150. An electric potential
 may be applied between anode 110 and cathode 120, wherein the potential at
 anode 110 is greater than the potential at cathode 120. The hydrogen at anode
 110 may be oxidized, causing the hydrogen to split into electrons and protons.
 The hydrogen protons may then be electrochemically transported or "pumped"
 through PEM 130 to cathode 120, while the electrons are rerouted around PEM
 130.         At cathode 120, the transported protons and rerouted electrons are
 reduced to form hydrogen. As more and more hydrogen is formed at cathode
                                                      -12
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 120, the hydrogen may be compressed and pressurized within a confined
 space.
 [0039]                  Thus, as described above, an EHP or EHC may employ a proton
 conducting membrane as part of an electrochemical cell, which may allow only
 hydrogen ions and water to pass through. Other compounds, e.g., pollutants,
 may          be         physically prevented    from   passing  through   the  membrane.
 Accordingly, this technology may be used to purify hydrogen.                  Likewise, by
 using electrochemical cell technology, hydrogen suppliers may be able to
 ensure the purity of the hydrogen gas supplied, and suppliers or consumers
 may be able to monitor a supply of hydrogen gas for pollutants.
 [0040]                  In an exemplary embodiment, an EHP or EHC may be used to
 purify hydrogen gas. As is shown in Figure 2A, a hydrogen supplier 210 may
 generate a quantity of hydrogen gas, which may contain one or more
 pollutants. The supply of hydrogen gas may be generated, for example, using
 any suitable steam-methane reformer, fossil hydrocarbon reformer, renewable
 hydrocarbon reformer, electrolyzer, ethanol reformer, biomass reformer, coal
 gasification, nuclear-powered water splitting, photoelectrochemical systems,
 photobiological systems, or solar thermochemical                     systems.    In some
 embodiments, supplier 210 may already have a quantity of hydrogen gas or
 hydrogen liquid contained in any suitable container, for example, a tube, tank,
 pipeline, or bottle, and this hydrogen may have an unknown, suspected, or
 known admixture of pollutants.
 [0041]                  To ensure purity of the hydrogen gas supplied to a consumer, the
 admixture of hydrogen gas and potential pollutants may be passed through an
 EHP 220, step 211. The gas admixture may be passed through EHP 220 at
 any point following production, for example, immediately after production or
 after a period of storage time.               As discussed above, EHP 220 includes an
 electrolyte membrane and is configured to allow only protons, i.e., hydrogen
 ions, and water molecules to pass through. Accordingly, only hydrogen and
 water will be allowed to pass through from the anode side of EHP 220 to the
 cathode side of EHP 220.                  Pollutants present in the gas admixture will be
                                                   -13
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 separated out and removed from EHP 220, step 221.                    While the exemplary
 embodiments in Figures 2A, 2B show only one EHP 220, any suitable number
 of EHPs may be included. For example, a plurality of EHPs could be arranged
 in parallel or in series.               Additionally, each EHP may include an individual
 electrochemical cell or a plurality of electrochemical cells arranged in a stack.
 [0042]                  As is shown in step 222, the purified hydrogen collected at the
 cathode side of EHP 220 may be delivered to a hydrogen consumer 230. The
 hydrogen gas may be delivered to consumer 230 at any point following
 purification, for example, immediately after purification or after a period of
 storage time, though reducing the time between purification and delivery may
 reduce the likelihood of recontamination. Consumer 230 may use the delivered
 hydrogen for any suitable use, including, e.g., for dispensing to fuel cell
 vehicles (e.g., at fueling or transfer stations), use with fuel cell vehicles, use
 with stationary fuel cell applications (e.g., back-up generators, home power
 systems),                 portable  fuel   cell   applications, manufacturing  (e.g.,   of
 semiconductors, electronics, metallurgy), or other commodity hydrogen gas
 users (e.g., laboratories, chemical synthesis). Suppliers of hydrogen gas 210
 may include mass-producers and wholesale distributors who supply to retail
 distributors (e.g., fueling or transfer stations), industrial and commodity
 manufacturers or users, or individual users of hydrogen.               Consumers 230 of
 hydrogen gas may include refineries of both fossil and renewable hydrocarbon
 fuels, retail distributors, e.g., fueling stations, industrial manufacturers or users,
 or individual users of hydrogen.                 In some embodiments, suppliers 210 and
 consumers 230 may be the same entity, for example, a retailer or manufacturer
 may produce its own hydrogen gas for its own consumption.
 [0043]                  Further, as is shown in Figure 2B, in some embodiments, a portion
 of hydrogen may bypass EHP 220 instead of passing through EHP 220 at step
 211.        For example, a portion of hydrogen may follow step 212 and may pass
 straight from hydrogen supplier 210 to hydrogen consumer 230.                 In such an
 example, a quantity of hydrogen from supplier 210 may be broken into at least
 two portions, one that follows step 211 through EHP 220, and one that follows
                                                   - 14
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 step 212, bypassing EHP 220. The two portions of hydrogen may be rejoined
 at step 222 before reaching consumer 230. In some embodiments, the portion
 of hydrogen that follows step 212 may be smaller than the portion of hydrogen
 that follows step 211, while in some embodiments, the portion of hydrogen that
 follows step 212 may be substantially equal to or greater than the portion of
 hydrogen that follows step 211.                In some embodiments, the amount of
 hydrogen directed towards step 211 and/or 212 may vary over time, for
 example, the amount may be adjusted manually or automatically over time.
 For example, in some embodiments, the size of each portion may vary in
 response to a measured parameter of the system (e.g., voltage, consumption,
 age, efficiency), or of the fluids passing through EHP 220 (e.g., content,
 pressure, temperature, flow rate, etc.), or in response to a characteristic of the
 supplier or of the consumer (e.g., consumer needs, etc.).                   In some
 embodiments, the method of Figure 2B may be adjusted to resemble the
 method of Figure 2A for a period of time and no hydrogen may be directed
 towards step 212.
 [0044]                  In some embodiments, the method of Figure 2B may provide an
 alternate method of purification. Hydrogen supplier 210 may purify the portion
 of hydrogen gas passed through EHP 220, as described in relation to Figure
 2A. When the purified hydrogen passed through EHP 220 is remixed at step
 222 with the portion of hydrogen that bypassed EHP 220, the mixing of the
 portions of hydrogen gas may result in hydrogen gas that meets a threshold
 level of purity.
 [0045]                  In some embodiments, supplier of hydrogen gas 210 may use the
 above purification methods of Figures 2A, 2B in order to ensure that the
 hydrogen gas delivered to consumer 230 meets a predetermined threshold of
 purity. Such a threshold may be set by an industry standard, e.g., CGA-5.3,
 SAE J2719 and ISO 14687-2, or may be dictated at least in part by the needs
 of consumer 230, for example. Hydrogen purity levels may exceed 99% purity,
 and in some instances, may exceed 99.9% purity. Total impurities may be less
                                               -15
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 than 400 parts per million, and in some instances, may be less than 100 or less
 than 10 parts per million.
 [0046]                  In some embodiments, supplier 210 may use EHP 220 for
 hydrogen purification as a method of making certain guarantees or warranties,
 e.g., through contractual agreements or certificates, to consumer 230 about the
 purity level of the delivered hydrogen. As used herein, a warranty may include
 any express, implied, written, oral, contingent, limited, full, or other suitable
 warranty.                 As used herein, a certificate may include a certification of
 conformance, compliance, conformity, analysis, accuracy, or any other suitable
 certification or combination thereof. Such certificates may certify or guarantee
 any suitable parameter, measurement, property, or quality (e.g., specialty or
 industrial) of a gas, for example, content (e.g., gas, moisture, or particle),
 certainty of composition, integrity, complexity, purity level, compliance with one
 or more standards or specifications.                   Further, the certificate could certify the
 method of blending, type of laboratory analysis and reference standard used to
 prepare the gas mixture, and expiration date, for example. Accordingly, the
 method of using an EHP to purify a quantity of hydrogen gas may provide
 supplier 210 with a cost-effective method of, e.g., contractually guaranteeing
 the purity of hydrogen gas delivered by supplier 210 to consumer 230, or of
 producing and providing a supply of hydrogen gas that meets a predetermined
 threshold of purity.
 [0047]                  In another embodiment, an EHP may be used to monitor the purity
 of a quantity of hydrogen gas. As is shown in Figure 3A, a supplier 310 may
 generate a quantity of hydrogen gas, which may contain one or more
 pollutants. The supply of hydrogen gas may be generated, for example, using
 any suitable steam-methane reformer, fossil hydrocarbon reformer, renewable
 hydrocarbon reformer, electrolyzer, ethanol reformer, biomass reformer, coal
 gasification, nuclear-powered water splitting, photoelectrochemical systems,
 photobiological                    systems, or solar thermochemical       systems.     In some
 embodiments, supplier 310 may already have a quantity of hydrogen gas or
 hydrogen liquid contained in any suitable container, for example, a tube, tank,
                                                     -16
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 pipeline, or bottle, and this hydrogen may have an unknown, suspected, or
 known admixture of pollutants.
 [0048]                  The hydrogen gas may be delivered to a hydrogen consumer 330.
 To ensure purity of the hydrogen supply, a portion of the hydrogen gas with
 potential pollutants may be passed through an EHP 320, steps 311, 321. The
 portion of hydrogen gas may be passed through EHP 320 at any point following
 production, for example, immediately after production or after a period of
 storage time. Additionally, the portion of gas may be passed through EHP 320
 before or during delivery of the hydrogen gas to consumer 330 and may be part
 of a random, regular, or continuous monitoring process. For example, in some
 embodiments, a supply line may be used to deliver hydrogen gas directly to
 consumer 330, and a portion of the gas may be re-directed to EHP 320 before
 and/or during delivery.                In some embodiments, a portion of gas may be re
 directed to EHP 320 while the hydrogen gas is being dispensed into a container
 before the gas is delivered to consumer 330.                    In still other embodiments,
 containers of gas intended for delivery to consumer 330 may be randomly
 sampled and sample portions of gas passed through EHP 320.                         In some
 embodiments, EHP 320 may be installed in a slip-stream of the hydrogen gas.
 As discussed above, EHP 320 includes an electrolyte membrane that allows
 only protons, i.e., hydrogen ions, and water molecules to pass through.
 [0049]                  As is discussed above in regards to the embodiment of Figure 2,
 only hydrogen and water molecules will be allowed to pass through from the
 anode side of EHP 320 to the cathode side of EHP 320. While the exemplary
 embodiment in Figure 3 shows only one EHP, any suitable number of EHPs
 may be included.                   For example, a plurality of EHPs could be arranged in
 parallel or in series to monitor hydrogen gas purity. Additionally, each EHP
 may include an individual electrochemical cell or a plurality of electrochemical
 cells arranged in a stack. In this configuration, the voltage required to operate
 EHP 320 used as a monitor may increase as pollutants build up on the anode
 side. The time between a purge of the anode and a specific level of voltage
 increase may be a function of or proportional to the quantity of pollutants.
                                                  -17
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 Calibration of the EHP monitor can be done ahead of time to detect a
 predetermined level of pollutants or may be done in-situ by providing the EHP
 monitor with a quantity of hydrogen of known purity level for comparison to the
 source stream.
 [0050]                  After being passed through EHP 320, the hydrogen gas may be re
 introduced to the supply of hydrogen gas to consumer 330, step 322.
 However, if pollutants are detected in the supply of hydrogen gas and/or if the
 purity level is determined to be below the predetermined threshold, then
 delivery of hydrogen gas to consumer 330 may be stopped, step 325. In some
 embodiments, e.g., those in which a supply line is used to deliver gas to
 consumer 330 or to a container for delivery to consumer 330, detection of
 pollutants in the hydrogen gas may stop the flow of hydrogen gas through the
 supply line. For example, one or more flow control valves may be included in
 the delivery system to control the flow of gas through the supply line. In some
 embodiments, a controller 324 may be included in the delivery system, and
 controller 324 may be configured to automatically stop delivery of gas (e.g.,
 close the flow control valve) to consumer 330. In some embodiments, a signal
 may indicate to supplier 310 or consumer 330 that pollutants were detected, for
 example, a visual or audible signal. In some embodiments, the system may be
 manual, and supplier 310 may manually stop the supply of hydrogen to
 consumer 330 upon perceiving the signal.
 [0051]                  After the monitoring process is complete or while the monitoring
 process is occurring, the hydrogen that has been monitored for purity may
 rejoin the supply of hydrogen gas and be delivered to hydrogen consumer 330,
 step 322. The hydrogen gas may be delivered to consumer 330 at any point
 following monitoring,               for example, immediately after monitoring,   during
 monitoring, or after a period of storage time, though reducing the time between
 monitoring and delivery may reduce the likelihood of recontamination.
 [0052]                  Another monitoring embodiment is shown in Figure 3B.        The
 embodiment of Figure 3B may operate in a similar manner to that of Figure 3A,
 except that a portion of the hydrogen gas with potential pollutants that is
                                                 -18
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 diverted to EHP 320 at step 321 may be sent to a purity measurement device
 340 at step 323. In this embodiment, either all or some of the gas directed to
 EHP 320 at step 321 may be further directed to measurement device 340 via
 step 323. The gas sent to measurement device 340 may be sent to, but not
 through, EHP 320, or in some embodiments, the gas may be sent to
 measurement device 340 before or after the gas has passed through EHP 320.
 For example, the gas sent to measurement device 340 may be received from
 the cathode side after passing through EHP 320 and may contain a lower
 concentration of pollutants, or may be received from the anode side of EHP
 320 without having passed through EHP 320 and may contain a higher
 concentration of pollutants relative to the cathode side.
 [0053]                  Measurement    device 340    may include any suitable device,
 including, for example, a gas chromatograph, mass spectrometer, infrared
 spectrometer, ion mobility spectrometer, surface acoustic wave sensor, optical
 spectrometer, or any suitable analysis instrument.               Measurement device 340
 may be configured to measure the purity of the hydrogen gas. For example,
 measurement device 340 may identify the components and relative amounts of
 those components present in the hydrogen gas, or measurement device 340
 may measure only the amount of one or more specific pollutants that consumer
 330 may be sensitive to, or measurement device 340 may identify the amount
 of hydrogen relative to all non-hydrogen pollutants present.              Based on these
 measurements, measurement device 340 may be configured to determine the
 purity of the hydrogen gas.
 [0054]                  Further, in some embodiments, the purity of the hydrogen gas with
 potential pollutants may be calculated based on the measurement taken by
 measurement device 340 and one or more parameters of EHP 320, e.g.,
 current, voltage, pressure, temperature, gas flow speed, or any other suitable
 parameter.                  In some embodiments, this calculation may be performed, for
 example, by measurement device 340 or controller 324. Additionally, in some
 embodiments, measurement device 340 and/or the calculations used could be
 calibrated or adjusted based on one or more of these parameters. Accordingly,
                                                 -19
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 one or more additional measurement devices may be included in order to
 measure any suitable parameter of EHP 320, for example, a pressure gauge,
 thermometer, or other suitable device.
 [0055]                  After the hydrogen gas is sent to measurement device 340 and a
 purity measurement is taken, the hydrogen gas may be passed through EHP
 320 and/or re-introduced to the supply of hydrogen gas provided to consumer
 330, step 322.                     In some embodiments, the gas sent to measurement device
 340 may be purged or vented and may not be passed through EHP 320 or re
 introduced to the supply of hydrogen gas provided to consumer 330.
 [0056]                  In some          embodiments,   if measurement  device 340 detects
 pollutants in the supply of hydrogen gas, or if it detects that the level of purity is
 below a predetermined threshold, then delivery of hydrogen gas to consumer
 330 may be stopped, step 325. In some embodiments, e.g., those in which a
 supply line is used to deliver gas to consumer 330 or to a container for delivery
 to consumer 330, detection of pollutants in the hydrogen gas may stop the flow
 of hydrogen gas through the supply line. For example, one or more flow control
 valves may be included in the delivery system to control the flow of gas through
 the supply line. In some embodiments, a controller 324 may be included in the
 delivery system, and controller 324 may be configured to automatically stop
 delivery of gas (e.g., close the flow control valve) to consumer 330.                   For
 example, measurement device 340 may be operatively coupled, via, e.g., a
 wireless or hard connection, to controller 324 and may continuously or
 periodically communicate measurement readings to controller 324.                   In some
 embodiments, a signal may indicate to supplier 310 or consumer 330 that
 pollutants were detected, for example, a visual or audible signal.                In some
 embodiments, the system may be manual, and supplier 310 may manually stop
 the supply of hydrogen to consumer 330 upon perceiving the signal.
 [0057]                  The embodiment of Figure 3B may provide advantages over simply
 measuring the pollutants directly in the source stream of hydrogen.                     For
 example, if the hydrogen gas sent to measurement device 340 has already
 passed through EHP 320 and originated at the anode side of EHP 320, the
                                                      - 20
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 concentration of pollutants may be higher. Such a configuration may allow use
 of a less-sensitive measuring device, which may be less expensive, providing
 cost benefits.                  Accordingly, the monitoring of hydrogen gas purity using this
 configuration may be less expensive and easier to achieve than directly
 measuring the concentration of the hydrogen supply with potential pollutants
 prior to introduction to EHP 320.
 [0058]                  The flow chart of Figure 4 provides a visual arrangement of the
 steps of an exemplary monitoring method 410, similar to the exemplary
 embodiment described above in relation to Figures 3A, 3B.
 [0059]                  The consumer may use the delivered hydrogen for any suitable
 use, including, e.g., for dispensing to fuel cell vehicles (e.g., at fueling or
 transfer stations), use with fuel cell vehicles, use with stationary fuel cell
 applications (e.g., back-up generators, home power systems), portable fuel cell
 applications, manufacturing (e.g., of semiconductors, electronics, metallurgy),
 or other commodity                       hydrogen    gas users    (e.g.,  laboratories,  chemical
 synthesis).                 Suppliers of hydrogen gas may include mass-producers and
 wholesale distributors who supply to retail distributors (e.g., fueling or transfer
 stations), industrial and commodity manufacturers or users, or individual users
 of hydrogen. Consumers of hydrogen gas may include refineries of both fossil
 and renewable hydrocarbon fuels, refineries of both fossil and renewable
 hydrocarbon                   fuels,   retail distributors, e.g.,   fueling   stations,  industrial
 manufacturers                     or users, or individual   users     of hydrogen.      In some
 embodiments, the suppliers and the consumers may be the same entity, for
 example, a retailer or manufacturer may produce its own hydrogen gas for its
 own consumption.
 [0060]                  In some embodiments, the supplier of hydrogen gas may use the
 above monitoring method to ensure that the hydrogen gas delivered to the
 consumer meets a predetermined threshold of purity. Such a threshold may be
 set by an industry standard, e.g., CGA-5.3, SAE J2719 and ISO 14687-2, or
 may be dictated at least in part by the needs of the consumer, or any other
 specifications, for example.                   Hydrogen purity levels may exceed 99% purity,
                                                       - 21
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 and in some instances, may exceed 99.9% purity. Total impurities may be less
 than 400 parts per million, such as, for example, less than 300 parts per million,
 less than 200 parts per million, less than 100 parts per million, less than 50
 parts per million, and less than 10 parts per million. In some embodiments, the
 supplier may use an EHP for hydrogen monitoring as a method of making
 certain guarantees or warranties, e.g., through contractual agreements or
 certificates, to the consumer about the level of purity of the delivered hydrogen.
 Accordingly, the method of using an EHP to monitor the purity of a quantity of
 hydrogen gas may provide a supplier with a cost-effective method, e.g., of
 contractually guaranteeing the purity of hydrogen gas delivered by a supplier to
 a consumer, or of producing and providing a supply of hydrogen gas that meets
 a predetermined threshold of purity.
 [0061]                  The method of Figure 5 illustrates a flow chart of events that may
 occur with any suitable purification or monitoring system, for example, with
 those described in Figures 2A, 2B, 3 and 4. As is shown in step 410, a supplier
 may have a quantity of hydrogen gas. The quantity of hydrogen gas may be
 generated, for example, using any suitable steam-methane reformer, fossil
 hydrocarbon reformer, renewable hydrocarbon reformer, electrolyzer, ethanol
 reformer, biomass reformer, coal gasification, nuclear-powered water splitting,
 photoelectrochemical                systems,       photobiological  systems,    or    solar
 thermochemical systems. In some embodiments, a supplier may already have
 a quantity of hydrogen gas or hydrogen liquid contained in any suitable
 container, for example, a tube, tank, pipeline, or bottle, and this hydrogen may
 have an unknown, suspected, or known admixture of pollutants.
 [0062]                  To ensure purity of the hydrogen gas supplied to a consumer, some
 or all of the hydrogen gas with potential pollutants may be passed through an
 EHP, steps 411 and 420. As discussed above, the EHP includes an electrolyte
 membrane and is configured to allow only protons, i.e., hydrogen ions, and
 water molecules to pass through. Accordingly, only hydrogen and water will be
 allowed to pass through from the anode side of the EHP to the cathode side of
 the EHP. Any pollutants present in the gas admixture will be separated out and
                                                  - 22
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 removed from the EHP, step 421. While the exemplary embodiment in Figure
 5 shows only one EHP, any suitable number of EHPs may be included. For
 example, a plurality of EHPs could be arranged in parallel or in series.
 Additionally, each EHP may include an individual electrochemical cell or a
 plurality of electrochemical cells arranged in a stack. By passing all or a portion
 of the quantity of hydrogen gas through the EHP, the quantity of hydrogen gas
 may be purified, monitored for purity, or both.
 [0063]                  Once purified and/or monitored, the hydrogen gas may be ready for
 delivery to a consumer.                 Based on the monitoring and/or purification that
 occurred during step 420, the hydrogen supplier may produce a certificate, step
 440. Such a certificate may include a certification of conformance, compliance,
 conformity, analysis, accuracy, or any other suitable certification or combination
 thereof.                Exemplary certificates may certify or guarantee any suitable
 parameter, measurement, property, or quality (e.g., specialty or industrial) of a
 gas, for example, content (e.g., gas, moisture, or particle), certainty of
 composition, integrity, complexity, purity level, compliance with one or more
 standards or specifications. Further, the certificate could certify the method of
 blending, type of laboratory analysis and reference standard used to prepare
 the gas mixture, and expiration date, for example. In some embodiments, the
 supplier may use an EHP to make certain guarantees or warranties, e.g.,
 through certificates or other contractual agreements, for example, at step 440,
 to the consumer about the purity level of the delivered hydrogen. Exemplary
 warranties may include any express, implied, written, oral, contingent, limited,
 full, or other suitable warranty. For example, the certificate produced at step
 440 may certify that the hydrogen collected from the EHC and ready to provide
 to the consumer, or the hydrogen provided to the consumer, has a parameter,
 e.g., level of purity, that is at least substantially equal to a predetermined
 threshold of purity. The threshold of purity could be set, for example, according
 to any suitable specifications, industry standards, or the according to the needs
 of the consumer, for example.
                                                 - 23
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 [0064]                  The hydrogen supplier may then supply the hydrogen consumer
 with hydrogen gas of a certified purity, steps 422, 423, 430. Thy hydrogen
 supplier may physically provide the hydrogen consumer with a certificate, or
 such a certificate may be provided orally, or may be implied. The certificate
 may be incorporated as part of a written, express, implied, one-time, or ongoing
 contractual                agreement        between    the    hydrogen      supplier   and  hydrogen
 consumer,                 and       may   include any      suitable   warranties,     guarantees,    or
 certifications. The certificate may be provided to the consumer before, during,
 or after delivery of the hydrogen gas, or, if an ongoing supply relationship exists
 between the supplier and the consumer, the certificate may be provided before,
 during, or after each delivery of hydrogen, all deliveries of hydrogen, or
 periodically over the course of ongoing hydrogen deliveries.
 [0065]                  The consumer may use the delivered hydrogen for any suitable
 use, including, e.g., for dispensing to fuel cell vehicles (e.g., at fueling or
 transfer stations), use with fuel cell vehicles, use with stationary fuel cell
 applications (e.g., back-up generators, home power systems), portable fuel cell
 applications, manufacturing (e.g., of semiconductors, electronics, metallurgy),
 or other commodity                       hydrogen     gas    users   (e.g.,   laboratories, chemical
 synthesis).                 Suppliers of hydrogen gas may include mass-producers and
 wholesale distributors who supply to retail distributors (e.g., fueling or transfer
 stations), industrial and commodity manufacturers or users, or individual users
 of hydrogen. Consumers of hydrogen gas may include refineries of both fossil
 and renewable hydrocarbon fuels, refineries of both fossil and renewable
 hydrocarbon                   fuels,   retail  distributors,   e.g.,   fueling    stations,  industrial
 manufacturers                     or users, or individual       users    of hydrogen.       In some
 embodiments, the suppliers and the consumers may be the same entity, for
 example, a retailer or manufacturer may produce its own hydrogen gas for its
 own consumption.
 [0066]                  In some embodiments, the supplier of hydrogen gas may use the
 above method and certificate to ensure that the hydrogen gas delivered to the
 consumer meets a predetermined threshold of purity. Such a threshold may be
                                                        - 24
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 set by an industry standard, e.g., CGA-5.3, SAE J2719 and ISO 14687-2, or
 may be dictated at least in part by the needs of the consumer, or any other
 specifications, for example.             Hydrogen purity levels may exceed 99% purity,
 and in some instances, may exceed 99.9% purity. Total impurities may be less
 than 400 parts per million, such as, for example, less than 300 parts per million,
 less than 200 parts per million, less than 100 parts per million, less than 50
 parts per million, and less than 10 parts per million. In some embodiments, the
 supplier may use an EHP for hydrogen monitoring as a method of making
 certain guarantees or warranties, e.g., through contractual agreements or
 certificates, to the consumer about the level of purity of the delivered hydrogen.
 Accordingly, the method of using an EHP to monitor the purity of a quantity of
 hydrogen gas may provide a supplier with a cost-effective method, e.g., of
 contractually guaranteeing the purity of hydrogen gas delivered by a supplier to
 a consumer, or of producing and providing a supply of hydrogen gas that meets
 a predetermined threshold of purity.
 [0067]                  Application of embodiments described above may facilitate cost
 effective purification, monitoring, quality control, and assurance of purity for
 hydrogen gas.
 [0068]                  The many features and advantages of the present disclosure are
 apparent from the detailed specification, and thus, it is intended by the
 appended claims to cover all such features and advantages of the present
 disclosure that fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure.
 Further, since numerous modifications and variations will readily occur to those
 skilled in the art, it is not desired to limit the present disclosure to the exact
 construction and operation illustrated and described, and accordingly, all
 suitable modifications and equivalents may be resorted to, falling within the
 scope of the present disclosure.
 [0069]                  Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the conception
 upon which this disclosure is based may readily be used as a basis for
 designing other structures, methods, and systems for carrying out the several
                                                   - 25
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

 purposes of the present disclosure.                  Accordingly, the claims are not to be
 considered as limited by the foregoing description.
 [0070]                  It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to
 herein, such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication
 forms a part of the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any
 other country.
 [0071]                  In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the
 invention, except where the context requires otherwise due to express
 language or necessary implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
 "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the
 presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition of
 further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                                                  - 26
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

What is claimed is:
1.           A method of producing hydrogen gas meeting a predetermined threshold
of purity, comprising:
             transferring a quantity of a hydrogen gas mixture generated by a
hydrogen supplier through an electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein the
hydrogen                gas         mixture has  not  previously been  passed  through  any
electrochemical cell, and wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump includes
an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte membrane located between the anode
and the cathode;
             separating a quantity of hydrogen gas from the hydrogen gas mixture by
transferring the hydrogen                     gas from    the anode, through the electrolyte
membrane, to the cathode;
             collecting the hydrogen gas from the cathode, wherein the collected
hydrogen gas at least meets the predetermined threshold of purity; and
              producing a full, written warranty that the collected hydrogen gas meets
industry standard SAE J2719 and has a purity that is at least substantially equal
to the predetermined threshold of purity, wherein the predetermined threshold of
purity is at least 99%.
2.           The method of claim 1, further comprising:
              removing from the anode a quantity of non-hydrogen from the hydrogen
gas mixture that the electrolyte membrane blocks from passing through the
electrolyte membrane to the cathode.
3.           The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising:
             delivering the collected hydrogen gas to a consumer.
4.           The method                 of any preceding claim, wherein the predetermined
threshold of purity is above approximately 99.9% hydrogen.
                                                     - 27
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

5.           The method             of any preceding claim, wherein the predetermined
threshold of purity is less than approximately 300 parts per million of non
hydrogen.
6.           The method             of any preceding claim, wherein the predetermined
threshold of purity is less than approximately 50 parts per million of non
hydrogen.
7.           A method of providing hydrogen gas meeting a predetermined threshold
of purity, comprising:
              introducing a first quantity of hydrogen gas mixture containing hydrogen
gas and non-hydrogen to an electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein the
electrochemical hydrogen pump includes an anode, a cathode, and an
electrolyte membrane located between the anode and the cathode;
             directing the hydrogen gas mixture from the anode to the electrolyte
membrane;
              passing the hydrogen gas through the electrolyte membrane to the
cathode;
             substantially preventing the non-hydrogen from passing through the
electrolyte membrane;
             collecting the hydrogen gas from the cathode, wherein the collected
hydrogen gas at least meets the predetermined threshold of purity;
              mixing the collected hydrogen gas with a second quantity of hydrogen
gas mixture, wherein the second quantity of hydrogen gas mixture has not
previously been passed through any electrochemical cell, and wherein the
mixing produces a third quantity of hydrogen gas mixture with a level of purity
that at least meets the predetermined threshold of purity; and
              providing at least one of a certificate of conformance, a guarantee, or a
warranty that the third quantity of hydrogen gas mixture has a purity that is at
least substantially equal to the predetermined threshold of purity.
8.           The method of claim 7, further comprising:
                                                - 28
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

             delivering the third quantity of hydrogen gas to a consumer.
9.           The method of claim 7 or 8, wherein the first quantity of hydrogen gas
mixture and the second quantity of hydrogen gas mixture are both initially
derived from a hydrogen gas mixture source received from a hydrogen supplier,
and wherein the first quantity and the second quantity are separated when the
first quantity is introduced to the electrochemical hydrogen pump, and the first
quantity and the second quantity are rejoined by the mixing.
10.          The method of claim 7 or 8, wherein the collected hydrogen gas is mixed
with the second quantity of hydrogen gas mixture, and the non-hydrogen gas
substantially prevented from passing through the electrolyte membrane is not
mixed with the second quantity of hydrogen gas mixture.
11.          The method of claim 11, wherein the collected hydrogen gas mixed with
the second quantity of hydrogen gas mixture is delivered to a consumer.
12.          The method of any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein the predetermined
threshold of purity is above approximately 99.9% hydrogen.
13.          The method of any one of claims 7 to 12, wherein the electrochemical
hydrogen pump is configured to operate at a pressure of above approximately
2,000 psi.
14.          The method of any one of claims 7 to 12, wherein the electrochemical
hydrogen pump is configured to operate at a pressure of above approximately
5,000 psi.
15.          The method of any one of claims 7 to 12, wherein the electrochemical
hydrogen pump is configured to operate at a pressure of above approximately
10,000 psi.
                                              - 29
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

16.          A method of providing hydrogen gas meeting a predetermined threshold
of purity, comprising:
              receiving a quantity of hydrogen gas from a source;
             dividing the quantity of hydrogen gas into a first portion and a second
portion;
             diverting the first portion of the quantity of hydrogen gas to an
electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump
includes an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte membrane located between
the anode and the cathode;
             directing the first portion of hydrogen gas from the anode, to the
electrolyte membrane;
              passing the first portion of hydrogen gas through the electrolyte
membrane to the cathode;
             substantially preventing non-hydrogen in the first portion from passing
through the electrolyte membrane;
              reintroducing the first portion of hydrogen gas passed through the
electrolyte membrane to the second portion of hydrogen gas not diverted to the
electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein the second portion of hydrogen gas
has not previously been passed through any electrochemical cell; and
              providing at least one of a certificate, a guarantee, or a warranty that the
first portion and the second portion of hydrogen gas have a purity that is at least
substantially equal to the predetermined threshold of purity.
17.          The method of claim 16, wherein a voltage required to operate the
electrochemical hydrogen pump increases as the amount of non-hydrogen
substantially prevented from                passing through   the electrolyte membrane
increases, and wherein the method further comprises purging the anode of the
non-hydrogen in the first portion that was prevented from passing through the
electrolyte membrane, wherein a controller controls timing of the purging based
on       a predetermined            increase in   the voltage  required  to operate the
electrochemical hydrogen pump.
                                                - 30
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

18.          The method of claim 16 or 17, further comprising:
             delivering the first portion of hydrogen gas passed through the electrolyte
membrane and the second portion of hydrogen gas not diverted to the
electrochemical hydrogen pump to a consumer.
19.          The method of claim 18, wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump
further includes a controller and the method further comprises:
             stopping the delivery of hydrogen gas to the consumer if the controller
detects that the first portion of hydrogen gas diverted to the electrochemical
hydrogen pump falls below a predetermined level of purity.
20.          The method of any one of claims 16 to 19, further comprising:
sending an amount of the first portion of the quantity of hydrogen gas to a
measurement device, wherein the measurement device is configured to
measure a purity level of the hydrogen gas.
21.          The method of claim 20, wherein the amount of the first portion is sent
from the cathode of the electrochemical hydrogen pump to the measurement
device.
22.          The method of any one of claims 16 to 21, wherein the electrochemical
hydrogen pump is configured to operate at a pressure of above approximately
2,000 psi.
23.          The method of any one of claims 16 to 21, wherein the electrochemical
hydrogen pump is configured to operate at a pressure of above approximately
5,000 psi.
24.          The method of any one of claims 16 to 21, wherein the electrochemical
hydrogen pump is configured to operate at a pressure of above approximately
10,000 psi.
                                               - 31
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

25.          A method of providing hydrogen gas meeting a predetermined threshold
of purity, comprising:
              introducing a quantity of hydrogen gas mixture containing hydrogen gas
and non-hydrogen gas to an electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein the
hydrogen gas mixture was generated by a hydrogen supplier, wherein the
hydrogen                gas         mixture has  not   previously been   passed  through   an
electrochemical cell, and wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump includes
an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte membrane located between the anode
and the cathode;
             directing the hydrogen gas mixture from the anode to the electrolyte
membrane;
              passing the hydrogen gas through the electrolyte membrane to the
cathode;
             substantially preventing the non-hydrogen gas from passing through the
electrolyte membrane;
             collecting the hydrogen gas from the cathode, wherein the collected
hydrogen gas at least meets the predetermined threshold of purity; and
              providing at least one of a certificate, a guarantee, or a warranty that the
collected hydrogen gas has a purity that is at least substantially equal to the
predetermined threshold of purity.
26.          The method of claim 25, wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump is
configured to operate at a pressure of above approximately 5,000 psi.
27.          The method of claim 25, wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump is
configured to operate at a pressure of above approximately 10,000 psi.
28.          The method of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the hydrogen supplier
generated the hydrogen gas mixture using at least one of a steam-methane
reformer, fossil hydrocarbon                    reformer, renewable    hydrocarbon   reformer,
electrolyzer, ethanol reformer, biomass reformer, coal gasification, nuclear
                                                     - 32
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

powered water splitting system, photoelectrochemical system, photobiological
system, or solar thermochemical system.
29.          The method of any one of claims 1 to 6 or 28, wherein a second portion
of the hydrogen gas mixture is not transferred through the electrochemical
hydrogen pump.
30.          The method of any one of claims 7 to 15, wherein a voltage required to
operate the electrochemical hydrogen pump increases as the amount of non
hydrogen                substantially prevented       from   passing  through  the   electrolyte
membrane increases, and wherein the method further comprises varying an
amount of hydrogen gas in at least one of the first quantity or the second
quantity in response to an increase in the voltage required to operate the
electrochemical hydrogen pump.
31.          The method of any one of claims 16 to 24, wherein the source is a
hydrogen supplier that generates the quantity of hydrogen gas using at least
one of a steam-methane reformer, fossil hydrocarbon reformer, renewable
hydrocarbon reformer, electrolyzer, ethanol reformer, biomass reformer, coal
gasification, nuclear-powered water splitting system, photoelectrochemical
system, photobiological system, or solar thermochemical system.
32.          A method of producing hydrogen gas meeting a predetermined threshold
of purity, comprising:
             transferring a quantity of a hydrogen gas mixture generated by a
hydrogen supplier through an electrochemical hydrogen pump, wherein the
hydrogen                gas         mixture has not    previously  been   passed   through    an
electrochemical cell, and wherein the electrochemical hydrogen pump includes
an anode, a cathode, and an electrolyte membrane located between the anode
and the cathode;
                                                    -  33
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

             separating a quantity of hydrogen gas from the hydrogen gas mixture by
transferring the hydrogen            gas from      the anode, through the electrolyte
membrane, to the cathode;
             collecting the hydrogen gas from the cathode, wherein the collected
hydrogen gas at least meets the predetermined threshold of purity; and
              producing at least one of a certificate, a guarantee, or a warranty that the
collected hydrogen gas has a purity that is at least substantially equal to the
predetermined threshold of purity.
                                             -  34
10132547 1 (GHMatters) P101866.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
