                                        Abstract of the Disclosure
               The present invention relates generally to methods of using anti-NGF antibodies in
  the treatment of various NGF-related disorders, including asthma, arthritis and psoriasis. The
  methods are effective in treating these disorders in a patient without having a significant
5 adverse effect on the immune system of the patient.
  10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

       ANTI-NGF ANTIBODIES FOR THE TREATMENT OF VARIOUS DISORDERS
                The entire disclosure in the complete specification of our Australian Patent
   Application No. <removed-apn> is by this cross-reference incorporated into the present
   specification.
 5                                          Background of the Invention
   Field of the Invention
                The present invention relates generally to methods of using anti-NGF antibodies in
   the treatment of various NGF-related disorders, including asthma, arthritis and psoriasis. The
   methods are effective in treating these disorders in a patient without having a significant
10 adverse effect on the immune system of the patient.
   Description of the Related Art
   Nerve Growth Factor (NGF)
                Nerve growth factor (NGF) was the first neurotrophin to be identified, and its role in
   the development and survival of both peripheral and central neurons has been well
15 characterized. NGF has been shown to be a critical survival and maintenance factor in the
   development of peripheral sympathetic and embryonic sensory neurons and of basal
   forebrain cholinergic neurons (Smeyne et al., Nature 368:246-249 (1994); Crowley et al.,
   Cell 76:1001 - 1011 (1994)). NGF upregulates expression of neuropeptides in sensory
   neurons (Lindsay and Harmer, Nature 337:362-364 0989)) and its activity is mediated
20 through two different membrane-bound receptors. The TrkA tyrosine kinase receptor
   mediates high affinity binding and the p75 receptor, which is structurally related to other
   members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor family, mediates low affinity binding (Chao et
   al., Science 232:518-521 (1986)).
                In addition to its effects in the nervous system, NGF has been increasingly implicated
25 in processes outside of the nervous system. For example, NGF has been shown to enhance
   vascular permeability (Otten et al., Eur.JPharmacol.106:199-201 (1984)), enhance T- and
   B-cell immune responses (Otten et al., Proc. NatI. Acad. Sci. USA. 86:10059-10063 (1989)),
   induce lymphocyte differentiation and mast cell proliferation and cause the release of soluble
   biological signals from mast cells (Matsuda et al., Proc. NatI. Acad. Sci U.S.A. 85:6508-6512
30 (1988); Pearce et al., J. Physiol. 372:379-393 (1986), Bischoff et al., Blood 79:2662-2669
   (1992); Horigome et al., J. Biol. Chem. 268:14881-14887 0993)).
                                                         1
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                NGF is produced by a number of cell types including mast cells (Leon et al., Proc.
   Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 91:3739-3743 (1994)), B-lymphocytes (Torcia et al., Cell 85:345-356
   (1996), keratinocytes (Di Marco et al., J. Biol. Chem. 268:22838-22846)) and smooth muscle
   cells (Ueyama et al., J Hypertens. 11:1061-1065 (1993)). NGF receptors have been found on
 5 a variety of cell types outside of the nervous system. For example, TrkA has been found on
   human monocytes, T- and B-lymphocytes and mast cells.
                Consistent with a non-neuronal role for NGF, an association between increased NGF
   levels and a variety of inflammatory conditions has been observed in human patients as well
   as in several animal models. These include systemic lupus erythematosus (Bracci-Laudiero et
10 al., Neuroreport4:563-565 (1993)), multiple sclerosis (Bracci-Laudiero et al., Neurosci. Lett.
   147:9-12 (1992)), psoriasis (Raychaudhuri et al., Acta Derm. Venereol. 78:84-86 (1998)),
   arthritis (Falcini et al., Ann. Rheum. Dis. 55:745-748 0996)) and asthma (Braun et al., Eur. J
   Immunol. 28:3240-3251 0998)). Chronic inflammatory conditions such as these are a
   significant public health problem. For instance, it is estimated that arthritis affects 37.9
15 million people in the United States alone. Current therapies for treating these conditions are
   severely limited. An understanding of the role NGF plays in these diseases may provide new
   methods for treating them.
                A correlation between stress and psoriasis has been observed. Based on this
   correlation and the symmetry of the cutaneous lesions that accompany the disease, a
20 relationship with the nervous system has been proposed (Raychaudhuri et al., Acta Derm.
   Venercol. 78:84-86 (1998)). In particular, neuropeptides have been suggested to play a role in
   the pathogenesis of psoriasis. Investigators have reported an increased number of terminal
   cutaneous nerves along with upregulation of one or more of the neuropeptides, such as
   substance P (SP), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and CGRP. NGF plays a role in
25 regulating innervation in the skin and also is known to upregulate neuropeptides, suggesting
   that increased NGF levels may be responsible for the upregulation of neuropeptides and the
   increased cutaneous innervation seen with psoriasis. In fact, increased expression of NGF has
   been observed in psoriatic keratinocytes (Raychaudhuri et al., Acta Derm. Venercol. 78:84
   86 (1998)). It has been suggested that while NGF normally serves as a survival factor for
30 keratinocytes, overexpression of NGF prevents normal cell death, leading to psoriasis
   (Pincelli et al., J. Derm. Sci. 22:71-79 (2000)).
                A number of studies have indicated that neuropeptides such as substance P (SP) and
   biologically active compounds released from mast cells, such as histamine, also play a role in
                                                      2
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   both naturally occurring arthritis in humans and experimentally induced arthritis in animal
   models (see e.g. Levine, J., Science 226:547-549 (1984)). NGF has been shown to affect mast
    cell degranulation (Bruni et al., FEBS Lett. 138:190-193 (1982)) and substance P release
    (Donnerer et al., Neurosci. 49:693-698 (1992)), implicating it in the pathogenesis of arthritis.
 5               Consistently, an elevated level of NGF in peripheral tissues is associated with both
    hyperalgesia and inflammation and has been observed in a number of forms of arthritis. The
    synovium of patients affected by rheumatoid arthritis expresses high levels of NGF while in
    non-inflamed synovium NGF has been reported to be undetectable (Aloe et al., Arch. Rheum.
    35:351-355               (1992)).  Similar results were seen in rats with experimentally induced
10  rheumatoid arthritis (Aloe et al., On. Exp. Rheumatol. 10:203-204 (1992)). Elevated levels of
   NGF have been reported in transgenic arthritic nice along with an increase in the number of
   mast tells. (Aloe et al., Int. J Tissue Reactions-Exp. Clin. Aspects 15:139-143 (1993)).
   However, purified NGF injected into the joint synovium of normal rats does not induce knee
   joint inflammation, suggesting that NGF does not play a causative role in arthritis (Aloe et
15 al., Growth Factors9:149-155 (1993)).
                 High NGF levels have been associated with allergic inflammation and it has been
    suggested that this is related to mast cell degranulation (Bonini et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci
    U.S.A. 93:10955-10960 (1996)).
                 Elevated NGF levels are also observed in both allergic and non-allergic asthma
20  (Bonini et al., supra). Mast cells, eosinophils and T-lymphocytes have all been proposed to
   play a role in this inflammatory disease and the correlation between NGF serum levels and
    total IgE antibody titers suggests that NGF contributes to the inflammatory immune response.
   Allergen induced airway inflammation has been associated with increased local production of
   NGF in both mice and humans (Braun et al., Int. Arch. Allergy Immunol. 118:163-165
25  (1999)).
                 NGF has been shown to regulate the development of increased airway hyperactive
    response, a hallmark of bronchial asthma (Braun et al., Eur. J Immunol. 28:3240-3251
    (1998)). Indeed, in one study, treatment of allergensensitized mice with anti-NGF antibody
   prevented the development of airway hyperresponsiveness following local allergen challenge
30  (Braun et al., Int. Arch. Allergy Immunol. 118:163-165 (1999)).
                 Despite the promising results obtained in mice, reported adverse           effects of
   neutralizing anti-NGF antibodies on the immune system have raised serious questions about
   the feasibility of using anti-NGF antibodies as a therapeutic in the prevention or treatment of
                                                           3
    10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   asthma or other diseases or disorders in human patients . In particular, Torcia et al., Cell
   85:345-356 (1996)                   identified NGF as an autocrine       survival factor for memory B
   lymphocytes, and demonstrated that in vivo administration of neutralizing anti-NGF
   antibodies caused a depletion of memory B-cells and abolished secondary antigen-specific
 5 immune responses in mice. Garaci et al., Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96:1401314018 (1999)
   reported             that         NGF    is   an   autocrine   survival   factor  that   rescues human
   monocytes/macrophages: from the cytopathic effect caused by HIV infection. This report,
   along with the findings of Torcia et al., supra would suggest that anti-NGF antibodies have
   the potential of compromising the immune system of the subject treated.
10              It is to be understood that if any prior art publication is referred to herein, such
   reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a part of the common
   general knowledge in the art in Australia or any other country.
                                                    Summary of the Invention
                The present invention is based on the unexpected finding that in vivo administration
15 of a therapeutically effective amount of an anti-NGF monoclonal antibody (antibody 911)
   had no adverse effect on the immune system in an experimental mouse model of allergy.
   Accordingly, this and related antibodies hold great promise in the treatment of NGF
   associated disorders, including asthma, in human patients.
                In one aspect, the invention concerns a method of controlling an NGF-related disorder
20 in a human patient by administering to the patient an effective amount of an anti-human NGF
   (anti-hNGF) monoclonal antibody that is capable of binding hNGF with an affinity in the
   nanomolar range, and inhibiting the binding of hNGF to human TrkA (hTrkA) in vivo,
   wherein the antibody has no significant adverse effects on the immune system of the patient.
                In one embodiment the binding affinity of the antibody to hNGF is preferably about
25 0.10 to about 0.80 nM, more preferably about 0.15 to about 0.75 nM and even more
   preferably about 0.18 to about 0.72 nM.
                In another embodiment, the antibody binds essentially the same hNGF epitope as an
   antibody selected from the group consisting of MAb 911, MAb 912 and MAb 938, more
   preferably the same epitope as MAb 911.
30              In yet another embodiment the antibody is able to cross react with murine NGF
   (muNGF).
                                                                4
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                The antibody may also be an antibody fragment, preferably an antibody fragment
   selected from the group consisting of Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, Fv fragments, diabodies, single
   chain antibody molecules and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments, and
   more preferably a single-chain Fv (scFv) molecule.
 5              In another embodiment the antibody is chimeric. It may also be humanized or human.
                In yet another embodiment the antibody is bispecific. The bispecific antibody may
   have an anti-IgE specificity.
                The NGF-related disorder that is controlled is preferably not associated with the effect
   of NGF on the neuronal system.
10              In one embodiment the NGF-related disorder is an inflammatory condition, preferably
   selected from                  the group consisting of asthma, arthritis, multiple sclerosis,  lupus
   erythematosus and psoriasis.
                In a preferred embodiment the condition is asthma. In another embodiment the
   condition is arthritis, preferably rheumatoid arthritis. In yet another embodiment the
15 condition is psoriasis.
                In yet a further embodiment, the antibody is administered in combination with
   another therapeutic agent for the treatment of an inflammatory condition. Thus the antibody
   may be administered in combination with another therapeutic agent for the treatment of
   asthma. In one embodiment the antibody is administered with a corticosteroid, preferably
20 beclomethsone diproprionate (BDP). In another embodiment the antibody is administered
   with an anti-IgE antibody, such as rhuMAb-E25 or rhuMAb-E26. For the treatment of
   rheumatoid arthritis, the antibody may be administered in combination with an anti-TNF
   antibody or an antibody or immunoadhesin specifically binding a TNF receptor.
                In another aspect, the invention concerns a pharmaceutical composition comprising a
25 chimeric, humanized or human anti-human NGF monoclonal antibody capable of binding
   hNGF with an affinity in the nanomolar range and inhibiting the binding of hNGF to human
   TrkA in vivo, wherein the antibody has no significant adverse effects on the immune system
   of a patient, in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The antibody in the
   pharmaceutical composition may be an antibody fragment, preferably an antibody fragment
30 selected from the group consisting of Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, Fv fragments, diabodies, single
   chain antibody molecules and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.
                                                          5
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                In one embodiment the antibody is a bispecific antibody. The bispecific antibody may
   be capable of specific binding to native human IgE or native human TNF or a native human
   TNF receptor.
                In another embodiment the pharmaceutical composition further comprises another
 5 pharmaceutically active ingredient, such as an ingredient suitable for the treatment of an
   inflammatory condition. The inflammatory condition is preferably one selected from the
   group consisting of asthma, multiple sclerosis, arthritis, lupus erythematosus and psoriasis. In
   one embodiment the inflammatory condition is asthma. In another embodiment the
   inflammatory                 condition is arthritis, preferably rheumatoid  arthritis. In yet another
10 embodiment the inflammatory condition is psoriasis.
                In another aspect, the present invention relates to an article of manufacture
   comprising a container, a pharmaceutical composition comprising a chimeric, humanized or
   human anti-human NGF monoclonal antibody capable of binding hNGF with an affinity in
   the nanomolar range and inhibiting the binding of hNGF to human TrkA in vivo, wherein the
15 antibody has no significant adverse effects on the immune system of a patient, in
   combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier, and instructions for using the
   composition of matter to control an NGF-related disorder in a human patient.
                In one embodiment the article of manufacture comprises a further pharmaceutically
   active ingredient, preferably suitable for the treatment of an inflammatory condition. The
20 inflammatory condition is preferably selected from the group consisting of asthma, multiple
   sclerosis, arthritis, lupus erythematosus and psoriasis.
                                             Brief Description of the Drawings
                Figure 1 summarizes the ability of six anti-NGF MAbs; to bind to NGF/NT-3
   chimeric mutants. The relative binding of each MAb to the NGF/NT3 mutants is compared to
25 the binding of wildtype hNGF: (-), < 10%; (+), 10-30%; (++), 30-60%; (+++), 60-100%. The
   EC 5 o of each MAb for binding to hNGF is: MAb 908, 1.8 x 1010 M; MAb 911, 3.7 x 1010 M;
   MAb 912, 1.8 x 1010 M; MAb 938, 7.4 x 1010 M; MAb 14.14, 5.9 x 1010 M.
                Figure 2A-F shows the binding of MAbs to wild type and mutant hNGF. The average
   EC5 o values for each mutant obtained in 2 to 5 independent ELISA runs were compared to
30 EC5 o values obtained for wild type NGF binding. EC5 o values were determined by linear
   regression analysis (unweighted) using the Kaleidagraph software program (Abelbeck
                                                             6
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   Software). Mutants resulting in at least a two-fold reduction in MAb binding are designated
   by striped bars, and the contributing residues are labeled.
                Figure 2A shows binding of MAb 908 to wild type and mutant NGF.
                Figure 2B shows binding of MA 909 to wild type and mutant NGF.
 5              Figure 2C shows binding of MAb 911 to wild type and mutant NGF.
                Figure 2D shows binding of MAb 912 to wild type and mutant NGF.
                Figure 2E shows binding of MAb 938 to wild type and mutant NGF.
                Figure 2F shows binding of MAb 14.14 to wild type and mutant NGF.
                Figure 3A-F presents molecular models of MAb epitopes on NGF for anti-NGF
10 MAbs 908, 909, 911, 912, 938 and 14.14, respectively. The light and medium gray
   designations differentiate each monomer of NGF, and residues identified by ELISA that
   affect MAb binding are shown in black. Each of the variable regions is labeled in Figure X
                Figure 4A and B show immunoblot analysis of anti-NGF MAb binding to non
   reduced hNGF (A) and reduced hNGF (B). Molecular weight markers are visible in the first
15 lane. Buffer and a negative control antibody are shown in lanes 2 and 3, respectively. Under
   non-reducing conditions, purified hNGF ran as a triplet set of bands, which appear to
   correspond to monomeric, dimeric and partially processed dimeric hNGF.
                Figure 5 summarizes the MAb epitope mapping results.
                Figure 6 shows that anti-NGF MAbs inhibited binding of hNGF to a TrkA-lgG
20 receptor immunoadhesin.
                Figure 7 shows the ability of anti-NGF MAbs to inhibit binding of hNGF to a p75
   lgG immunoadhesin.
                Figure 8 shows the ability of anti-NGF MAbs to inhibit binding of hNGF to the TrkA
   extracellular domain               expressed on transfected CHO calls.   Inhibition of tyrosine
25 phosphorylation was measured by ELISA using an antiphophotyrosine MAL
                Figure 9 shows the ability of anti-NGF MAbs to inhibit the survival effects of hNGF
   on embryonic rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. Maximum survival was based on the signal
   obtained with NGF alone, and maximal inhibition determined by the signal obtained with the
   addition of saturating concentrations of soluble TrkA-lgG.
30              Figure 10 demonstrates that treatment with anti-NGF MAb 911 non-significantly
   increases the immune response to ovalbumin.
                Figure 11 shows that following immunization with chicken gamma-globulin,
   treatment with anti-NGF MAb 911 non-significantly reduces the immune response.
                                                        7
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                Figure 12 shows that treatment with anti-NGF MAb 911 blocks NGF induced thermal
   hyperalgesia.
                Figure 13 shows that in sensitized C57/BL6 mice (SN), treatment with anti-NGF
   MAb 911 inhibits airway hyperreactivity following challenge with inhaled dust mite antigen.
 5              Figure 14 shows that in sensitized C57/BL6 mice (SN), treatment with anti-NGF
   MAb decreases infiltration of white blood cells, lymphocytes and eosinophils into BAL
   following challenge with inhaled dust mite antigen.
                Figure 15 shows that while cellular infiltration into BAL is decreased in anti-NGF
   MAb treated sensitized mice, the proportion of eosinophils remains high.
10              Figure 16 shows that treatment with anti-NGF MAb 911 attenuates the increase of IL
    13 in BAL following antigen challenge.
                Figure 17 demonstrates that despite its ability to decrease the inflammatory response
   to allergen, treatment with anti-NGF MAb does not decrease the humoral immune response
   as measured by total serum immunoglobulin titer to dust mite.
15              Figure 18 shows that treatment with anti-NGF MAb also does not decrease the total
   serum level of IgE.
                Figure 19 shows that treatment with NGF increases the levels of CGRP in the
   trigeminal ganglion, while treatment with anti-NGF MAb produces a decrease in CGRP
   levels.
20                                    Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiment
                A.            Definition
                Unless defined otherwise, technical and scientific terms used herein have the same
   meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention
   belongs. See, e.g. Singleton et al., Dictionary of Microbiology and Molecular Biology 2nd
25 ed., J. Wiley & Sons (New York, NY 1994); Sambrook et al., Molecular Cloning, A
   Laboratory Manual, Cold Springs Harbor Press (Cold Springs Harbor, NY 1989). One
   skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those
   described herein, which could be used in the practice of the present invention. Indeed, the
   present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. For purposes
30 of the present invention, the following terms are defined below.
                As used herein, the terms "nerve growth factor" and "NGF" are defined as all
   mammalian species of native sequence NGF, including human.
                                                               8
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                In the claims which follow and in the description of the invention, except where the
   context requires otherwise due to express language or necessary implication, the word
   ''comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
   i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or addition
 5 of further features in various embodiments of the invention.
                "NGF receptor" refers to a polypeptide that is bound by or activated by NGF. NGF
   receptors include the TrkA receptor and the p75 receptor of any mammalian species,
   including humans.
                The term "native sequence" in connection with NGF or any other polypeptide refers
10 to a polypeptide that has the same amino acid sequence as a corresponding polypeptide
   derived from nature, regardless of its mode of preparation. Such native sequence polypeptide
   can be isolated from nature or can be produced by recombinant and/or synthetic means or any
   combinations thereof. The term "native sequence" specifically encompasses naturally
   occurring truncated or secreted forms (e.g., an extracellular domain sequence), naturally
15 occurring variant forms (e.g., alternatively spliced forms) and naturally-occurring allelic
   variants of the full length polypeptides.
                "Antibodies" (Abs) and "immunoglobulins" (Igs) are glycoproteins having the same
   structural characteristics. While antibodies exhibit binding specificity to a specific antigen,
   immunoglobulins include both antibodies and other antibody-like molecules which lack
20 antigen specificity. Polypeptides of the latter kind are, for example, produced at low levels by
   the lymph system and at increased levels by myelomas.
                "Native antibodies and immunoglobulins" are usually heterotetrameric glycoproteins
   of about 150,000 daltons, composed of two identical light (L) chains and two identical heavy
   (H) chains. Each light chain is linked to a heavy chain by one covalent disulfide bond, while
25 the      number of disulfide linkages        varies between    the heavy chains of different
   immunoglobulin isotypes. Each heavy and light chain also has regularly spaced intrachain
   disulfide bridges. Each heavy chain has at one end a variable domain (VH) followed by a
   number of constant domains. Each light chain has a variable domain at one end (VU and a
   constant domain at its other end; the constant domain of the light chain is aligned with the
30 first constant domain of the heavy chain, and the light chain variable domain is aligned with
   the variable domain of the heavy chain. Particular amino acid residues are believed to form
   an interface between the light and heavy-chain variable domains (Chothia et al., J Mol Biol.
                                                      9
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

    186:651119851; Novotny and Haber, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 82:4592 [19851; Chothia
   et al., Nature 342: 877-883 [19891).
                The term "variable" refers to the fact that certain portions of the variable domains
   differ extensively in sequence among antibodies and are used in the binding and specificity of
 5 each particular antibody for its particular antigen. However, the variability is not evenly
   distributed throughout the variable domains of antibodies. It is concentrated in three
   segments called complementarity-determining regions (CDRs) or hypervariable regions both
   in the light-chain and the heavy-chain variable domains. The more highly conserved portions
   of variable domains are called the framework (FR). The variable domains of native heavy
10 and light chains each comprise four FR regions, largely adopting a f-sheet configuration,
   connected by three CDRs, which form loops connecting, and in some cases forming part of,
   the P-sheet structure. The CDRs in each chain are hold together in close proximity by the FR
   regions and, with the CDRs from the other chain, contribute to the formation of the antigen
   binding site of antibodies (see Kabat et al. (1991) supra). The constant domains are not
15 involved directly in binding an antibody to an antigen, but exhibit various effector functions,
   such as participation of the antibody in antibody-dependent cellular toxicity.
                Papain digestion of antibodies produces two identical antigen-binding fragments,
   called "Fab" fragments, each with a single antigen-binding site, and a residual "Fc" fragment,
   whose name reflects its ability to crystallize readily. Pepsin treatment yields an F(ab')2
20 fragment that has two antigen-combining sites and is still capable of crosslinking antigen.
                "Fv" is the minimum antibody fragment that contains a complete antigen-recognition
   and -binding site. In a two-chain Fv species, this region consists of a dimer of one heavy- and
   one light-chain variable domain in tight, noncovalent association. In a single-chain Fv
   species, one heavy- and one light-chain variable domain can be covalently linked by a
25 flexible peptide linker such that the light and heavy chains can associate in a "dimeric"
   structure analogous to that in a two-chain Fv species. It is in this configuration that the three
   CDRs of each variable domain interact to define an antigen-binding site on the surface of the
   VH-VL dimer. Collectively, the six CDRs confer antigen-binding specificity to the antibody.
   However, even a single variable domain (or half of an Fv comprising only three CDRs
30 specific for an antigen) has the ability to recognize and bind antigen, although at a lower
   affinity than the entire binding site.
                The Fab fragment also contains the constant domain of the light chain and the first
   constant domain (CHI) of the heavy chain. Fab' fragments differ from Fab fragments by the
                                                     10
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   addition of a few residues at the carboxy terminus of the heavy chain CHI domain including
   one or more cysteines from the antibody hinge region. Fab'-SH is the designation herein for
   Fab' in which the cysteine residue(s) of the constant domains bear a free thiol group. F(ab')2
   antibody fragments originally were produced as pairs of Fab' fragments which have hinge
 5 cysteines between them. Other chemical couplings of antibody fragments are also known.
                The "light chains" of antibodies (immunoglobulins) from any vertebrate species can
   be assigned to one of two clearly distinct types, called     K  and k, based on the amino acid
   sequences of their constant domains.
                Depending on the amino acid sequence of the constant domain of their heavy chains,
10 immunoglobulins ran be assigned to different classes. There are five major classes of
   immunoglobulins: IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM, and several of these can be further divided
   into subclasses (isotypes), e.g, IgGi, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, IgAi, and IgA2. The heavy-chain
   constant domains that correspond to the different classes of immunoglobulins are called a1, 6,
   8, y, and p respectively. The subunit structures and three-dimensional configurations of
15 different classes of immunoglobulins are well known.
                The term "antibody" specifically covers monoclonal antibodies, including antibody
   fragment clones.
                "Antibody fragments" comprise a portion of an intact antibody, generally the antigen
   binding or variable region of the intact antibody. Examples of antibody fragments include
20 Fab, Fab', F(ab'),, and Fv fragments; diabodies; single-chain antibody molecules, including
   single-chain Fv (scFv) molecules; and multispecific antibodies, such as bispecific antibodies,
   formed from antibody fragments.
                The term "monoclonal antibody" as used herein refers to an antibody (or antibody
   fragment) obtained from a population of substantially homogeneous antibodies, i.e., the
25 individual antibodies comprising the population are identical except for possible naturally
   occurring mutations that may be present in minor amounts. Monoclonal antibodies are highly
   specific, being directed against a single antigenic site. Furthermore, in contrast to
   conventional (polyclonal) antibody preparations that typically include different antibodies
   directed against different determinants (epitopes), each monoclonal antibody is directed
30 against a single determinant on the antigen. In addition to their specificity, the monoclonal
   antibodies are advantageous in that they are synthesized by the hybridoma culture, and are
   not contaminated by other immunoglobulins. The modifier "monoclonal" indicates the
   character of the antibody as being obtained from a substantially homogeneous population of
                                                     11
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   antibodies, and is not to be construed as requiring production of the antibody by any
   particular method. For example, the monoclonal antibodies to be used in accordance with the
   present invention may be made by the hybridoma method first described by Kohler et al.,
   Nature, 256:495 (1975), or may be made by recombinant DNA methods (see, e.g., U.S.
 5 Patent No. 4,816,567). The "monoclonal antibodies" also include clones of antigen
   recognition and binding-site containing antibody fragments (Fv clones) isolated from phage
   antibody libraries using the techniques described in Clackson et al., Nature, 352:624-628
   (1991) and Marks et al., J. Mol. Biol., 222:581-597 (1991), for example.
                The monoclonal antibodies herein specifically include "chimeric"               antibodies
10 (immunoglobulins) in which a portion of the heavy and/or light chain is identical with or
   homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from a particular species or
   belonging to a particular antibody class or subclass, while the remainder of the chain(s) is
   identical with or homologous to corresponding sequences in antibodies derived from another
   species or belonging to another antibody class or subclass, as well as fragments of such
15 antibodies, so long as they exhibit the desired biological activity (U.S. Patent No. 4,816,567
   to Cabilly et al.; Morrison et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 81:6851-6855 [1984]).
                "Humanized"               forms  of non-human   (e.g.,  murine) antibodies are  chimeric
   immunoglobulins, immunoglobulin chains or fragments thereof (such as Fv, Fab, Fab',
   F(ab')2 or other antigen-binding subsequences of antibodies) which contain minimal
20 sequence derived from non-human immunoglobulin. For the most part, humanized antibodies
   are human immunoglobulins (recipient antibody) in which residues from a complementarity
   determining region (CDR) of the recipient are replaced by residues from a CDR of a non
   human species (donor antibody) such as mouse, rat or rabbit having the desired specificity,
   affinity, and capacity. In some instances, Fv framework region (FR) residues of the human
25 immunoglobulin                     are replaced by  corresponding   non-human residues.  Furthermore,
   humanized antibodies may comprise residues which are found neither in the recipient
   antibody nor in the imported CDR or framework sequences. These modifications are made to
   further refine and optimize antibody performance. In general, the humanized antibody will
   comprise substantially all of at least one, and typically two, variable domains, in which all or
30 substantially all of the CDR regions correspond to those of a non-human immunoglobulin
   and all or substantially all of the FR regions are those of a human immunoglobulin sequence.
   The humanized antibody optimally also will comprise at least a portion of an
   immunoglobulin constant region (Fc), typically that of a human immunoglobulin. For further
                                                             12
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   details, see Jones et al., Nature, 321:522-525 (1986), Reichmann et al, Nature, 332:323-329
   (1988); Presta, Curr. Op. Struct. Biol., 2:593-596 (1992), and Clark, Immunol. Today 21:
   397-402 (2000). The humanized antibody includes a Primatized TM antibody wherein the
   antigen-binding region of the antibody is derived from an antibody produced by immunizing
 5 macaque monkeys with the antigen of interest.
                "Single-chain Fv" or "scFv" antibody fragments comprise the VH and VL domains of
   antibody, wherein these domains are present in a single polypeptide chain. Generally, the
   scFv polypeptide further comprises a polypeptide linker between the VH and VL domains,
   which enables the scFv to form the desired structure for antigen binding. For a review of
10 scFv see Pluckthun, in The Pharmacologyof Monoclonal Antibodies, vol. 113, Rosenburg
   and Moore eds., Springer-Verlag, New York, pp. 269-315 (1994), Dall'Acqua and Carter,
   Curr. Opin. Struct.. Biol. 8: 443-450 (1998), and Hudson, Curr. Opin. Immunol. 11: 548-557
   (1999).
                The term "diabodies" refers to small antibody fragments with two antigen-binding
15 sites, which fragments comprise a heavy-chain variable domain (VH) connected to a light
   chain variable domain (VL) in the same polypeptide chain (VH - VL). By using a linker that
   is too short to allow pairing between the two domains on the same chain, the domains are
   forced to pair with the complementary domains of another chain and create two antigen
   binding sites. Diabodies; are described more fully in, for example, EP 404,097; WO
20 93/11161; and Hollinger et al, Proc. Nati. Acad. Sci. USA, 90:6444-6448 (1993).
                An "isolated" antibody is one that has been identified and separated and/or recovered
   from a component of its natural environment. Contaminant components of its natural
   environment are materials that would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses for the
   antibody, and may include enzymes, hormones, and other proteinaceous or nonproteinaceous
25 solutes. In preferred embodiments, the antibody will be purified (1) to greater than 95% by
   weight of antibody as determined by the Lowry method, and most preferably more than 99%
   by weight, (2) to a degree sufficient to obtain at least 15 residues of N-terminal or internal
   amino acid sequence by use of a spinning cup sequenator, or (3) to homogeneity by SDS
   PAGE under reducing or nonreducing conditions using Coomassie blue or, preferably, silver
30 stain. Isolated antibody includes the antibody in situ within recombinant cells since at least
   one component of the antibody's natural environment will not be present. Ordinarily,
   however, isolated antibody will be prepared by at least one purification step.
                                                      13
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                By "neutralizing antibody" is meant an antibody molecule that is able to block or
   significantly reduce an effector function of a target antigen to which it binds. Accordingly, a
   "neutralizing" anti-NGF antibody is capable of blocking or significantly reducing an effector
   function, such as receptor binding and/or elicitation of a cellular response, of NGF.
 5 "Significant' reduction means at least about 60%, preferably at least about 70%, more
   preferably at least about 75%, even more preferably at least about 80%; still more preferably
   at least about 85%, most preferably at least about 90% reduction of an effector function of
   the target antigen (e.g. NGF).
                An antibody is capable of "inhibiting the binding" of a ligand to a receptor when it is
10 capable of producing an objectively measurable decrease in the ability of the ligand to bind
   the receptor.
                The term "epitope" is used to refer to binding sites for (monoclonal or polyclonal)
   antibodies on protein antigens.
                Antibodies which bind to a particular epitope can be identified by "epitope mapping."
15 There are many methods known in the art for mapping and characterizing the location of
   epitopes; on proteins, including solving the crystal structure of an antibody-antigen complex,
   competition assays, gene fragment expression assays, and synthetic peptide-based assays, as
   described, for example, in Chapter 11 of Harlow and Lane, Using Antibodies, a Laboratory
   Manual, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Cold Spring Harbor, New York, 1999.
20 Competition assays are discussed below. According to the gene fragment expression assays,
   the open reading frame encoding the protein is fragmented either randomly or by specific
   genetic constructions and the reactivity of the expressed fragments of the protein with the
   antibody to be tested is determined. The gene fragments may, for example, be produced by
   PCR and then transcribed and translated into protein in vitro, in the presence of radioactive
25 amino acids. The binding of the antibody to the radioactively labeled protein fragments is
   then determined by immunoprecipitation and gel electrophoresis. Certain opitopes can also
   be identified by using large libraries of random peptide sequences displayed on the surface of
   phage particles (phage libraries). Alternatively, a defined library of overlapping peptide
   fragments can be tested for binding to the test antibody in simple binding assays. The latter
30 approach is suitable to define linear epitopes of about 5 to 15 amino acids.
                An antibody binds "essentially the same epitope' as a reference antibody, when the
   two antibodies recognize identical or sterically overlapping epitopes. The most widely used
   and rapid methods for determining whether two epitopes bind to identical or sterically
                                                      14
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   overlapping epitopes are competition assays, which can be configured in all number of
   different formats, using either labeled antigen or labeled antibody. Usually, the antigen is
   immobilized on a 96-well plate, and the ability of unlabeled antibodies to block the binding
   of labeled antibodies is measured using radioactive or enzyme labels.
 5              The term amino acid or amino acid residue, as used herein, refers to naturally
   occurring L amino acids or to D amino acids as described further below with respect to
   variants. The commonly used one- and three-latter abbreviations for amino acids are used
   herein (Bruce Alberts et al., Molecular Biology of the Cell, Garland Publishing, Inc., New
   York (3d ed. 1994)).
10              "Variants" are antibodies that differ in some respect from native antibodies while
   retaining the same biological activity. Variants may have an amino acid sequence that differs
   from the sequence of the native antibody as a result of an insertion, deletion, modification
   and/or substitution of one or more amino acid residues within the native sequence. Variants
   may have a different glycosylation pattern from native antibodies. Further, variants may be
15 native antibodies that have been covalently modified.
                A "disorder" is any condition that would benefit from treatment according to the
   present invention. "Disorder" and "condition" are used interchangeably herein and include
   chronic and acute disorders or diseases, including those pathological conditions which
   predispose the mammal to the disorder in question. Non-limiting examples of disorders to be
20 treated herein include lupus erythematosus, contact dermititis, eczema, shingles, postherpetic
   neuralgia, hyperalgesia, chronic pain, irritable bowel disease, Crohn's disease, colitis, bladder
   cystitis, multiple sclerosis, asthma, psoriasis, and arthritis, including chronic arthritis and
   rheumatoid arthritis. A preferred disorder to be treated in accordance with the present
   invention is an inflammatory condition, such as asthma, multiple sclerosis, arthritis, lupus
25 erythematosus and psoriasis.
                An "inflammatory condition" is a condition characterized by one or more of pain,
   heat, redness, swelling and loss of function, and is associated with tissue injury, infection,
   irritation or damage.
                The term "disease state" refers to a physiological state of a cell or of a whole mammal
30 in which an interruption, cessation, or disorder of cellular or body functions systems, or
   organs has occurred.
                The term "effective amount" or "therapeutically effective amount" refers to an
   amount of a drug effective to treat and/or prevent a disease, disorder or unwanted
                                                       15
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   physiological condition in a mammal. In the present invention, an "effective amount" of an
   anti-NGF antibody may prevent, reduce, slow down or delay the onset of a disorder such as
   lupus, multiple sclerosis, asthma, psoriasis or arthritis; reduce, prevent or inhibit (i.e., slow to
   some extent and preferably stop) the development of a disorder such as lupus, multiple
 5 sclerosis, asthma, psoriasis or arthritis; and/or relieve, to some extent, one or more of the
   symptoms associated with such a disorder.
                In the methods of the present invention, the term "control" and grammatical variants
   thereof, are used to refer to the prevention, partial or complete inhibition, reduction, delay or
   slowing down of an unwanted event, e.g. physiological condition, such as the inflammatory
10 response associated with a disorder such as asthma.
                "Treatment" or "treat' refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or
   preventative measures. Those in need of treatment include those already with the disorder as
   well as those prone to have the disorder or those in which the disorder is to be prevented. For
   purposes of this invention, beneficial or desired clinical results include, but are not limited to,
15 alleviation of symptoms, diminishment of extent of disease, stabilized (i.e., not worsening)
   state of disease, delay or slowing of disease progression, amelioration or palliation of the
   disease state, and remission (whether partial or total), whether detectable or undetectable.
   "Treatment" can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not
   receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or
20 disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the
   condition or disorder is to be prevented.
                A "significant adverse effect" on the immune system is an effect that compromises
   the immune system and/or inhibits a normal immune response to antigen challenge. An
   example of a significant adverse effect on the immune system would be a reduced humoral
25 immune response.
                "Pharmaceutically acceptable" carriers, excipients, or stabilizers are ones which are
   nontoxic to the cell or mammal being exposed thereto at the dosages and concentrations
   employed. Often the physiologically acceptable carrier is an aqueous pH buffered solution.
   Examples of physiologically acceptable carriers include buffers such as phosphate, citrate,
30 and other organic acids, antioxidants including ascorbic acid; low molecular weight (less than
   about         10        residues)  polypeptides; proteins, such as serum     albumin,  gelatin,   or
   immunoglobulins; hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone; amino acids such as
   glycine, glutamine, asparagine, arginine or lysine, monosaccharides, disaccharides, and other
                                                          16
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   carbohydrates including glucose, mannose, or dextrins; chelating agents such as EDTA;
   sugar alcohols such as mannitoll or sorbitol; salt-forming counterions such as sodium, and/or
   nonionic surfactants such as TWEEN , polyethylene glycol (PEG), and PLURONICS .
                A "liposome" is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids, phospholipids
 5 and/or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug (such as the anti-NGF antibodies
   disclosed herein and, optionally, a chemotherapeutic agent) to a mammal. The components of
   the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation, similar to the lipid arrangement
   of biological membranes.
                The term "package insert" is used to refer to instructions customarily included in
10 commercial packages of therapeutic products, that contain information about the indications,
   usage, dosage, administration, contraindications and/or warnings concerning the use of such
   therapeutic products.
                "Mammal" for purposes of treatment refers to any animal classified as a mammal,
   including humans, domestic and farm animals, and zoo, sports, or pet animals, such as dogs,
15 horses, cats, cows, etc. Preferably, the mammal is human.
                B.            Methods for carrying out the invention
                As described in more detail below, administration of anti-NGF monoclonal antibody
   911 in a mouse model of asthma reduced measures of airway hyperreactivity and
   inflammation but did not decrease the humoral immune response to inhaled antigen as
20 measured by total serum immunoglobulin levels and serum level of IgE.
                Anti-NGF antibodies are known in the art. The anti-NGF antibodies useful in the
   present invention include polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal antibodies, chimeric antibodies,
   humanized antibodies, human antibodies, bispecific antibodies, heteroconjugate antibodies,
   and antibody fragments, as well as modified antibodies, including glycosylation variants of
25 antibodies, amino acid sequence variants of antibodies and covalently modified antibodies.
   The antibodies can be made by any method known in the art.
                Thus, monoclonal antibodies may be made using the hybridoma method first
   described by Kohler et al., Nature, 256:495 (1975), or by recombinant DNA methods (U.S.
   Patent No. 4,816,567).
30              Briefly, in the hybridoma method, a mouse or other appropriate host animal, such as a
   hamster or macaque monkey, is immunized to elicit lymphocytes that produce or are capable
   of producing antibodies that will specifically bind to the protein used for immunization.
   Alternatively, lymphocytes may be immunized in vitro. Lymphocytes then are fused with
                                                             17
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   myeloma cells using a suitable fusing agent, such as polyethylene glycol, to form a
   hybridoma cell (Goding, Monoclonal Antibodies. Principles and Practice, pp.59-103,
   [Academic Press, 1986]). The hybridoma cells thus prepared are seeded and grown in a
   suitable culture medium that preferably contains one or more substances that inhibit the
 5 growth or survival of the unfused, parental myeloma cells. For example, if the parental
   myeloma cells lack the enzyme hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HGPRT
   or HPRT), the culture medium for the hybridomas typically will include hypoxanthine,
   aminopterin, and thymidine (HAT medium), which substances prevent the growth of
   HGPRT-deficient cells. Preferred myeloma cell lines are murine myeloma lines, such as
10 those derived from MOP-21 and MC.-1 1 mouse tumors available from the Salk Institute Cell
   Distribution Center, San Diego, California USA, and SP-2 or X63-Ag8-653 cells available
   from the American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, Maryland USA. Human myeloma
   and mouse-human heteromyeloma cell lines also have been described for the production of
   human monoclonal antibodies (Kozbor, J. Immunol., 133:3001 (1984), Brodeur et al,
15 Monoclonal Antibody Production Techniques and Applications, pp. 51-63, Marcel Dekker,
   Inc., New York, [1987]). Culture medium in which hybridoma cells are growing is assayed
   for production of monoclonal antibodies directed against the antigen. Preferably, the binding
   specificity of monoclonal antibodies produced by hybridoma cells is determined by
   immunoprecipitation or by an in vitro binding assay, such as radioimmunoassay (RIA) or
20 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The binding affinity of the monoclonal
   antibody can, for example, be determined by the Scatchard analysis of Munson et al, Anal
   Biochem., 107:220 (1980). After hybridoma cells are identified that produce antibodies of the
   desired specificity, affinity, and/or activity, the cells may be subcloned by limiting dilution
   procedures and grown by standard methods (Goding, MonoclonalAntibodies., Principlesand
25 Practice, pp.59-103 (Academic Press, 1986)). The monoclonal antibodies secreted by the
   subclones are suitably separated from the culture medium, ascites fluid, or serum by
   conventional immunoglobulin purification procedures such as, for example, protein A
   Sepharose, hydroxylapatite         chromatography,   gel electrophoresis,    dialysis, or affinity
   chromatography.
30              Recombinant production of the antibodies requires the isolation of DNA encoding the
   antibody or antibody chains. DNA encoding the monoclonal antibodies is readily isolated and
   sequenced using conventional procedures (e.g., by using oligonucleotide probes that are
   capable of binding specifically to genes encoding the heavy and light chains of the
                                                    18
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   monoclonal antibodies). The hybridoma cells serve as a preferred source of such DNA. Once
   isolated, the DNA may be placed into expression vectors, which are then transfected into host
   cells such as E coli cells, simian COS cells, Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells, or myeloma
   cells that do not otherwise produce immunoglobulin protein, to obtain the synthesis of
 5 monoclonal antibodies in the recombinant host cells. The DNA also may be modified, for
   example, by substituting the coding sequence for human heavy and light chain constant
   domains in place of the homologous murine sequences, Morrison, et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci.
   81, 6851 (1984), or by covalently joining to the immunoglobulin coding sequence all or part
   of the coding sequence for a non-immunoglobulin polypeptide. In that manner, "chimeric" or
10 "hybrid" antibodies are prepared that have the binding specificity of an anti-NGF monoclonal
   antibody herein.
                Typically such non-immunoglobulin polypeptides are substituted for the constant
   domains of an antibody of the invention, or they are substituted for the variable domains of
   one antigen-combining site of an antibody of the invention to create a chimeric bivalent
15 antibody comprising one antigen-combining site having specificity for a native NGF
   polypeptide and another antigen-combining site having specificity for a different target, such
   as a high-affinity IgE receptor, or a TNF receptor. Chimeric or hybrid antibodies also may be
   prepared in vitro using known methods in synthetic protein chemistry, including those
   involving crosslinking agents. For example, immunotoxins; may be constructed using a
20 disulfide exchange reaction or by forming a thioether bond. Examples of suitable reagents for
   this purpose include iminothiolate and methyl-4-mercaptobutyrimidate.
                Non-human, such as murine antibodies can be humanized. Generally, a humanized
   antibody has one or more amino acid residues introduced into it from a non-human source.
   These non-human amino acid residues are often referred to as "import" residues, which are
25 typically taken from an "import" variable domain. Humanization can be essentially
   performed following the method of Winter and co-workers (Jones et al., Nature 321:522-525
   (1986); Riechmann et al., Nature 332:323-327 (1988); Verhoeyen et al., Science 239:1534
    1536 (1988)), by substituting rodent CDRs or CDR sequences for the corresponding
   sequences of a human antibody.
30              It is important that antibodies be humanized with retention of high affinity for the
   antigen and other favorable biological properties. To achieve this goal, according to a
   preferred method, humanized antibodies are prepared by a process of analysis of the parental
   sequences and various conceptual humanized products using three-dimensional models of the
                                                     19
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   parental and humanized sequences. Three dimensional immunoglobulin models are
   commonly available and are familiar to those skilled in the art. Computer programs are
   available which illustrate and display probable three-dimensional conformational structures
   of selected candidate immunoglobulin sequences. Inspection of these displays permits
 5 analysis of the likely role of the residues in the functioning of the candidate immunoglobulin
   sequence, i.e. the analysis of residues that influence the ability of the candidate
   immunoglobulin to bind its antigen. In this way, FR residues can be selected and combined
   from the consensus and import sequence so that the desired antibody characteristic, such as
   increased affinity for the target antigen(s), is achieved. In general, the CDR residues are
10 directly and most substantially involved in influencing antigen binding. For further details,
   see U.S. patent No. 5,821,337.
                The invention also includes human anti-NGF antibodies. As noted before, such
   human antibodies can be made by the hybridoma method, using human myeloma or mouse
   human heteromyeloma cell lines for the production of human monoclonal antibodies (see,
15 e.g. Kozbor, J. Immunol. 133 3001 (1984), and Brodeur, et al., Monoclonal Antibody
   Production Techniques and Applications pp. 5 1-63 (Marcel Dekker, Inc., New York, (1987)).
   Furthermore, it is possible to produce transgenic animals (e.g. mice) that are capable, upon
   immunization, of producing a repertoire of human antibodies in the absence of endogenous
   immunoglobulin production. For example, it has been described that the homozygous
20 deletion of the antibody heavy chain joining region        JH) gene in chimeric and germ-line
   mutant mice results in complete inhibition of endogenous antibody production. Transfer of
   the human germ-line immunoglobulin gene array in such germ-line mutant mice will result in
   the production of human antibodies upon antigen challenge. See, e.g. Jakobovits et al., Proc.
   Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90, 2551-255 (1993); Jakobovits et al., Nature 362 255-258 (1993). For
25 an improved version of this technology, see also Mendez et al. (Nature Genetics 15: 146-156
   (1997)).
                Alternatively, the phage display technology (McCafferty et al., Nature 348, 552-553
   [1990]) can be used to produce human antibodies and antibody fragments in vitro, from
   immunoglobulin variable (V) domain gene repertoires from unimmunized donors. According
30 to this technique, antibody V domain genes are cloned in-frame into either a major or minor
   coat protein gene of a filamentous bacteriophage, such as M13 or fd, and displayed as
   functional antibody fragments on the surface of the phage particle. Because the filamentous
   particle contains a single-strandled DNA copy of the phage genome, selections based on the
                                                      20
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   functional properties of the antibody also result in selection of the gene encoding the
   antibody exhibiting those properties. Thus, the phage mimics some of the properties of the
   Bcell. Phage display can be performed in a variety of formats; for their review see, e.g.
   Johnson, Kevin S. and Chiswell, David J., Current Opinion in Structural Biology, 3, 564-571
 5 (1993). Several sources of V-gene segments can be used for phage display. Clackson et al.,
   Nature 352, 624-628 (199 1) isolated a diverse array of anti-oxazolone antibodies from a
   small random combinatorial library of V genes derived from the spleens of immunized mice.
   A repertoire of V genes from unimmunized human donors can be constructed and antibodies
   to a diverse array of antigens (including self-antigens) can be isolated essentially following
10 the techniques described by Marks et al., J. Mol. Biol, 222 581-597 (1991), or Griffiths et
   al., EMBO J. 12 725-734 (1993). In a natural immune response, antibody genes accumulate
   mutations at a high rate (somatic hypermutation). Some of the changes introduced will confer
   higher         affinity,           and B cells displaying   high-affinity surface immunoglobulin are
   preferentially replicated and differentiated during subsequent antigen challenge. This natural
15 process can be mimicked by employing the technique known as "chain shuffling" (Marks et
   al., Bio/Technol. 10, 779-783 [1992]). In this method, the affinity of "primary" human
   antibodies obtained by phage display can be improved by sequentially replacing the heavy
   and light chain V region genes with repertoires of naturally occurring variants (repertoires) of
   V domain genes obtained from unimmunized donors. This technique allows the production of
20 antibodies and antibody fragments with affinities in the nM range. A strategy for making
   very large phage antibody repertoires (also known as "the mother-of-all libraries") has been
   described by Waterhouse et al., Nucl. Acids Res. 21 2265-2266 (1993), and the isolation of a
   high affinity human antibody directly from such large phage library is reported by Griffiths et
   al., EMBO J. 13: 3245-3260 (1994).
25              Gene shuffling can also be used to derive human antibodies from rodent antibodies,
   where the human antibody has similar affinities and specificities to the starting rodent
   antibody. According to this method, which is also referred to as "epitope imprinting", the
   heavy or light chain V domain gene of rodent antibodies obtained by phage display technique
   is replaced with a repertoire of human V domain genes, creating rodent-human chimeras.
30 Selection on antigen results in isolation of human variable domains capable of restoring a
   functional antigen-binding site, i.e. the epitope governs (imprints) the choice of partner.
   When the process is repeated in order to replace the remaining rodent V domain, a human
   antibody is obtained (see PCT patent application WO 93/06213, published 1 April 1993).
                                                             21
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   Unlike traditional humanization of rodent antibodies by CDR grafting, this technique
   provides completely human antibodies, which have no framework or CDR residues of rodent
   origin.
                The present invention specifically includes bispecific antibodies. Traditionally, the
 5 recombinant production of bispecific antibodies is based on the co-expression of two
   immunoglobulin heavy chain-light chain pairs, where the two heavy chains have different
   specificities (Millstein and Cuello, Nature 305 537-539 (1983)). According to a different and
   more preferred approach, antibody variable domains with the desired binding specificities
   (antibody-antigen combining sites) are fused to immunoglobulin constant domain sequences.
10 The fusion preferably is with an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant domain, comprising
   at least part of the hinge, CH2 and CH3 regions. It is preferred to have the first heavy chain
   constant region (CHI) containing the site necessary for light chain binding, present in at least
   one of the fusions. DNAs encoding the immunoglobulin heavy chain fusions and, if desired,
   the immunoglobulin light chain, are inserted into separate expression vectors, and are co
15 transfected into a suitable host organism. This provides for great flexibility in adjusting the
   mutual proportions of the three polypeptide fragments in embodiments when unequal ratios
   of the three polypeptide chains used in the construction provide the optimum yields. It is,
   however, possible to insert the coding sequences for two or all three polypeptide chains in
   one expression vector when the expression of at least two polypeptide chains in equal ratios
20 results in high yields or when the ratios are of no particular significance. For further details of
   generating bispecific antibodies see, for example, Suresh et al, Methods in Enzymology 121,
   210 (1986).
                Heteroconjugate antibodies are also within the scope of the present invention.
   Heteroconjugate antibodies are composed of two covalently joined antibodies. Such
25 antibodies have, for example, been proposed to target immune system cells to unwanted cells
   (U.S. Patent No. 4,676,980), and for treatment of HIV infection (PCT application publication
   Nos. WO 91/00360 and WO 92/200373; EP 03089). Heteroconjugate antibodies may be
   made using any convenient cross-linking methods. Suitable cross-linking agents are well
   known in the art, and are disclosed in U.S. Patent No. 4,676,980, along with a number of
30 cross-linking techniques.
                Antibody fragments have been traditionally derived via proteolytic digestion of intact
   antibodies (see, e.g., Morimoto et al., J Biochem. Biophys. Methods 24:107-117 (1992) and
   Brennan et al., Science 229:81 (1985)). However, these fragments can now be produced
                                                     22
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   directly by recombinant host cells. For example, Fab'-SH fragments can be directly
   recovered from E. coli and chemically coupled to form F(ab')2 fragments (Carter et al.,
   Bio/Technology 10:163-167 (1992)). In another embodiment, the F(ab')2 is formed using the
   leucine zipper GCN4 to promote assembly of the F(ab')2 molecule. According to another
 5 approach, Fv, Fab or F(ab')2 fragments can be isolated directly from recombinant host cell
   culture. Other techniques for the production of antibody fragments will be apparent to the
   skilled practitioner.
                For use in certain embodiments of the invention, it may be desirable to modify the
   antibody fragment in order to increase its serum half-life. This may be achieved, for example,
10 by incorporation of a salvage receptor binding epitope into the antibody fragment (e.g., by
   mutation of the appropriate region in the antibody fragment or by incorporating the epitope
   into a peptide tag that is then fused to the antibody fragment at either end or in the middle,
   e.g., by DNA or peptide synthesis). See WO 96/32478 published October 17, 1996.
                The salvage receptor binding epitope generally constitutes a region wherein any one
15 or more amino acid residues from one or two loops of a Fc domain are transferred to an
   analogous position of the antibody fragment. Even more preferably, three or more residues
   from one or two loops of the Fc domain are transferred. Still more preferred, the epitope is
   taken from the CH2 domain of the Fc region (e.g., of an IgG) and transferred to the CHI,
   CH3, or VH region, or more than one such region, of the antibody. Alternatively, the epitope
20 is taken from the CH2 domain of the Fc region and transferred to the CL region or VL region,
   or both, of the antibody fragment.
                Amino acid sequence variants, including substitution, insertion and/or deletion
   variants, of the anti-NGF antibodies specifically disclosed are prepared by introducing
   appropriate nucleotide changes into the encoding DNA, or by peptide synthesis. Methods for
25 making such variants are well known in the art, and include, for example, "alanine scanning
   mutagenesis," as described by Cunningham and Wells Science, 244:1081-1085 (1989). A
   particular type of amino acid variant of an antibody alters the original glycosylation pattern
   of the antibody. By altering is meant deleting one or more carbohydrate moieties found in the
   antibody, and/or adding one or more glycosylation sites that are not present in the antibody.
30 Screeningfor antibodies with the desiredproperties
                Antibodies useful in the present invention are those that neutralize the activity of
   NGF. Thus, for example, the neutralizing anti-NGF antibodies of the present invention can be
                                                     23
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   identified by incubating a candidate antibody with NGF and monitoring binding and
   neutralization of a biological activity of NGF. The binding assay may be performed with
   purified NGF polypeptide(s), or with cells naturally expressing, or transfected to express,
   NGF polypeptide(s). In one embodiment, the binding assay is a competitive binding assay,
 5 where the ability of a candidate antibody to compete with a known anti-NGF antibody for
   NGF binding is evaluated. The assay may be performed in various formats, including the
   ELISA format.
                The ability of a candidate antibody to neutralize a biological activity of NGF can, for
   example, be carried out by monitoring the ability of the candidate antibody to inhibit NGF
10 mediated survival in the embryonic rat dorsal root ganglia survival bioassay as described in
   Hongo et al. (Hybridoma 19:215-227 (2000)).
                To screen for antibodies which bind to an epitope on NGF bound by an antibody of
   interest, a routine crossblocking assay such as that described in Antibodies, A Laboratory
   Manuel, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Ed Harlow and David Lane (1988), can be
15 performed. Alternatively, or additionally, epitope mapping can be performed by methods
   known in the art. For example, the NGF epitope bound by a monoclonal antibody of the
   present invention can be determined by competitive binding analysis as described in Fendly
   et al Cancer Research 50:1550 -1558 (1990). Cross-blocking studies can be done by direct
   fluorescence on intact cells using the PANDEXTM                    Screen Machine to quantitate
20 fluorescence. In this method the monoclonal antibody is conjugated with fluorescein
   isothiocyanate (FITC), using established procedures (Wofsy et al Selected Methods in
   Cellular Immunology, p. 287, Mishel and Schiigi (eds.) San Francisco: W.J. Freeman Co.
   (1980)). NGF expressing cells in suspension and purified monoclonal antibodies are added to
   the PANDEXTM plate wells and incubated, and fluorescence is quantitated by the
25 PANDEXTM. Monoclonal antibodies are considered to share an epitope if each blocks
   binding of the other by 50% or greater in comparison to an irrelevant monoclonal antibody
   control.
                Anti-NGF antibodies useful in the present invention can also be identified using
   combinatorial libraries to screen for synthetic antibody clones with the desired activity or
30 activities. Such methods are well known in the art. Briefly, synthetic antibody clones are
   selected by screening phage libraries containing phage that display various fragments (e.g.
   Fab, F(ab')2, etc ... ) of antibody variable region (Fv) fused to phage coat proteins. Such
   phage libraries are panned by affinity chromatography against the desired antigen. Clones
                                                      24
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   expressing Fv fragments capable of binding to the desired antigen are adsorbed to the antigen
   and thus separated from the non-binding clones in the library. The binding clones are then
   eluted from the antigen and can be further enriched by additional cycles of antigen
   adsorption/elution. Suitable anti-NGF antibodies for use in the present invention can be
 5 obtained by designing a suitable antigen screening procedure to select for the phage clone of
   interest, followed by construction of a full length anti-NGF antibody clone by using the Fv
   sequences from the phage clone of interest and a suitable constant region (Fc) sequence.
                The results obtained in the cell-based biological assays can be followed by testing in
   animal, e.g. murine, models and human clinical trials. If desired, murine monoclonal
10 antibodies identified as having the desired properties can be converted into chimeric
   antibodies, or humanized by techniques well known in the art, including the "gene
   conversion mutagenesis" strategy, as described in U.S. Patent No. 5,821,337.
                C.            Pharmaceutical Formulation
                Therapeutic formulations of the antibody used in accordance with the present
15 invention are prepared for storage by mixing an antibody having the desired degree of purity
   with optional pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, excipients or stabilizers (Remington's
   PharmaceuticalSciences 16th edition, Osol, A. Ed. 1980)), in the form of Iyophilized
   formulations or aqueous solutions. Acceptable carriers, excipients, or stabilizers are nontoxic
   to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed, and may comprise buffers such as
20 phosphate, citrate, and other organic acids; antioxidants including ascorbic acid and
   methionine,                preservatives  (such as    octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium    chloride,
   hexamethonium chloride; benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, phenol, butyl or
   benzyl alcohol; alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben, catechol; resorcinol;
   cyclohexanol; 3-pentanol: and m-cresol); low molecular weight (less than about 10 residues)
25 polypeptides; proteins, such as serum albumin, gelatin, or immunoglobulins; hydrophilic
   polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone, amino acids such as glycine, glutamine, asparagine,
   histidine, arginine, or lysine; monosaccharides, disaccharides, and other carbohydrates
   including glucose, mannose, or dextrins; chelating agents such as EDTA, sugars such as
   sucrose, mannitol, trehalose or sorbitol; salt-forming counter-ions such as sodium, metal
30 complexes (e.g. Zn-protein complexes); and/or non-ionic surfactants such as TWEEN
   PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol (PEG).
                The neutralizing anti-NGF antibodies useful in the methods of the present invention
   may also be formulated as immunoliposomes. Liposomes containing the antibody are
                                                           25
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   prepared by methods known in the art, such as described in Epstein et al., Proc. Natl. Acad.
   Sci. USA 82:3688 (1985), Hwang et al., Proc.Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77:4030 (1980); and U.S.
   Pat. Nos. 4,485,045 and 4,544,545. Liposomes with enhanced circulation time are disclosed
   in U.S. Patent No. 5,013,556.
 5              Particularly useful liposomes can be generated by the reverse phase evaporation
   method with a lipid composition comprising phosphatidylcholine, cholesterol and PEG
   derivatized phosphatidylethanolamine (PEG-PE). Liposomes are extruded through filters of
   defined pore size to yield liposomes with the desired diameter. Fab' fragments of the
   antibody of the present invention can be conjugated to the liposomes as described in Martin
10 et al, J             Biol. Chem. 257:286-288 (1982)             via a disulfide interchange reaction. A
   chemotherapeutic agent (such as Doxorubicin) is optionally contained within the liposome.
   See Gabizon et al., J National Cancer Inst. 81(19):1484 (1989).
                The active ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared, for example,
   by        coacervation             techniques    or   by    interfacial    polymerization,    for   example,
15 hydroxymethylcellulose                     or   gelatin-microcapsules        and     poly(methylmethacylate)
   rnicrocapsules, respectively, in colloidal drug delivery systems (for example, liposomes,
   albumin            microspheres,          microemulsions,    nano-particles     and   nanocapsules)   or   in
   macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington's PharmaceuticalSciences
    16th edition, Osol, A. Ed. (1980).
20              Sustained-release preparations may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained
   release preparations                 include semipermeable     matrices    of solid hydrophobic polymers
   containing the antibody, which matrices are in the form of shaped articles, e.g. films, or
   microcapsules. Examples of sustained-release matrices include polyesters, hydrogels (for
   example, poly(2-hydroxyethyl-methacrylate), or poly(vinylalcohol)), polylactides (U.S. Pat.
25 No. 3,773,919), copolymers of L-glutamic acid and ethyl-L-glutamate, non-degradable
   ethylene-vinyl acetate, degradable lactic acid-glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON
   DEPOT (injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid-glycolic acid copolymer and
   leuprolide acetate), and poly-D-(-)-3-hydroxybutyric acid.
                The formulation herein may also contain more than one active compound as
30 necessary             for the       particular indication  being    treated,   preferably  compounds     with
   complementary activities that do not adversely affect each other. For example, it may be
   desirable to further provide antibodies that bind to a different epitope of NGF or to an NGF
   receptor in the one formulation. Alternatively, or additionally, the composition may further
                                                              26
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   comprise another biologically active compound, such as an anti-inflammatory agent. Such
   molecules are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose
   intended.
                The formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. This is readily
 5 accomplished by, for example, filtration through sterile filtration membranes.
                Therapeutic anti-NGF antibody compositions are generally placed into a container
   having a sterile access port, for example, an intravenous solution bag or vial having a stopper
   pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle.
                D.             Treatment with anti-NGF antibodies
10              It is contemplated that, according to the present invention, the anti-NGF antibodies
   may be used to treat various diseases or disorders. Exemplary conditions or disorders include
   asthma, psoriasis and arthritis. The anti-NGF antibodies may be used to prevent the onset of
   the active disease state, to treat symptoms that are currently being experienced and to treat
   the underlying disease itself.
15              Despite advances in understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms that
   control allergic responses and improved therapies, the incidence of allergic diseases,
   especially asthma, has increased dramatically in recent years (Beasley et al, J Allergy Clin.
   Immunol. 105:466-472 (2000); Peat and Li, J Allergy Clin. Immunol. 103:1-10 (1999)).
   Allergic diseases can be treated, for example, by allergen-based vaccination, in which
20 increasing doses of allergen are given by injection over years. Mild asthma can usually be
   controlled in most patients by relatively low doses of inhaled corticosteroids, while moderate
   asthma is usually managed by the additional administration of inhaled long-acting p
   antagonists or leukotriene inhibitors. However, the treatment of severe asthma is still a
   serious medical problem. Although an anti-IgE antibody currently awaking FDA approval
25 (rhuMAb-E25, XolairTM, developed in collaboration of Genentech, Inc., Tanox, Inc. and
   Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation) shows promising results for early intervention in the
   treatment of conditions that lead to symptoms of allergic asthma and seasonal allergic
   rhinitis, there is need for the development of additional therapeutic strategies and agents to
   control allergic diseases, such as asthma.
30              The anti-NGF antibodies of the present invention can be used for the treatment of
   asthma and other disorders associated with airway hyperreactivity, typically characterized by
   episodes of coughs, wheezing, chest tightness, and/or breathing problems.
                                                            27
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                The anti-NGF antibodies of the present invention are also useful in the management
   of other inflammatory conditions, such as multiple sclerosis, colitis, inflammatory bowel
   disease, bladder cystitis, eczema, contact dermititis, arthritis, including chronic arthritis and
   rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn's disease, and psoriasis.
 5              In addition, anti-NGF antibodies are also useful in treating other diseases that may be
   associated with increased levels of NGF including, for example, lupus erythematosus,
   shingles, postherpetic neuralgia, hyperalgesia, and chronic pain.
                The anti-NGF antibodies are administered to a mammal, preferably to a human
   patient, in accord with known methods, such as intravenous administration, e.g., as a bolus or
10 by      continuous               infusion over  a period     of time, by intramuscular,      intraperitoneal,
   intracerebrospinal, subcutaneous, intra-articular, intrasynovial, intrathecal, oral, or topical
   routes. Anti-NGF antibody can also be administered by inhalation. Commercially available
   nebulizers for liquid formulations, including jet nebulizers and ultrasonic nebulizers are
   useful for administration. Liquid formulations can be directly nebulized and lyophilized
15 powder can be nebulized after reconstitution. Alternatively, anti-NGF antibody can be
   aerosolized using a fluorocarbon formulation and a metered dose inhaler, or inhaled as a
   lyophilized and milled powder. For the treatment of asthma and other conditions
   characterized by airway hyperreactivity, a preferred route of administration is by inhalation.
                Other therapeutic regimens may be combined with the administration of the anti-NGF
20 antibody.            The         combined   administration   includes    co-administration, using   separate
   formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation, and consecutive administration, in any
   order, wherein preferably there is a time period while both for all) active agents
   simultaneously exert their biological activities. For the treatment of asthma, it might be
   particularly advantageous to use the antibodies herein in combination with anti-IgE
25 antibodies, in particular rhuMAb-E25                     (XolairTM), or with second-generation antibody
   molecule rhuMAb-E26 (Genentech, Inc.). The rhuMAb-E25 antibody is a recombinant
   humanized anti-IgE monoclonal antibody that was developed to interfere early in the allergic
   process. Combination use also includes the possibility of administering the two antibodies in
   a single pharmaceutical formulation, or using a bispecific antibody, With anti-NGF and anti
30 IgE specificities. In another preferred embodiment, the anti-NGF antibodies herein are
   administered                in combination     with inhaled      corticosteroids, such   as beclomethasone
   diproprionate (BDP) treatment. For the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis or Crohn's disease,
   the antibodies of the present invention can be administered in combination with other
                                                               28
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   treatment regimens known for the treatment of these conditions. For example, the anti-NGF
   antibodies herein can be administered in combination with Remicade (Infliximab,
   Centocor), or Enbrel@ (Etanercept, Wyeth-Ayerst). The present invention also includes
   bispecific antibodies targeting these diseases. For example, a bispecific antibody could
 5 include an anti-TNF specificity combined with the NGF-binding ability of the antibodies
   herein.
                Suitable dosages for any of the above co-administered agents are those presently used
   and may be lowered due to the combined action (synergy) of the agent and anti-NGF
   antibody.
10              For the prevention or treatment of disease, the appropriate dosage of anti-NGF
   antibody will depend on the anti-NGF antibody employed, the type of disease to be treated,
   the severity and course of the disease, whether the antibody is administered for preventive or
   therapeutic purposes, previous therapy, the patient's clinical history and response to the
   antibody, and the discretion of the attending physician. Typically the clinician will administer
15 the antiNGF antibody until a dosage is reached that achieves the desired result.
                The anti-NGF antibody is suitably administered to the patient at one time or over a
   series of treatments. Depending on the type and severity of the disease, about 2 mg/kg of
   antibody is an initial candidate dosage for administration to the patient, whether, for example,
   by one or more separate administrations, or by continuous or repeated dosing. A typical daily
20 dosage might range from about 1 g/kg to 100 mg/kg or more, depending on the factors
   mentioned above. For repeated administrations over several days or longer, depending on the
   condition, the treatment is sustained until a desired suppression of disease symptoms occurs.
   A preferred dosing regimen comprises administering an initial dose of about 2 mg/kg,
   followed by a weekly maintenance dose of about 1 mg/kg of the antiNGF antibody.
25 However, other dosage regimens may be useful, depending on the pattern of pharmacokinetic
   decay that the practitioner wishes to achieve. The progress of this therapy is easily monitored
   by conventional techniques and assays.
                E.            Articles of Manufacture
                In another embodiment of the invention, an article of manufacture containing
30 materials useful for the treatment of the disorders described above is provided. The article of
   manufacture comprises a container and a label or package insert(s) on or associated with the
   container. Suitable containers include, for example, bottles, vials, syringes, etc. The
                                                      29
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   containers may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container
   holds a composition which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile
   access port (for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a
   stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle). At least one active agent in the
 5 composition is an anti-NGF antibody. The container may further comprise a second
   pharmaceutically active agent. Preferably the second agent is suitable for the treatment of an
   inflammatory disease such as asthma, multiple sclerosis, arthritis, lupus erythematosus and
   psoriasis.
                The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the
10 condition of choice, such as an inflammatory condition. In one embodiment, the label or
   package inserts indicates that the composition comprising the antibody that binds NGF can
   be used to treat an inflammatory condition selected from the group consisting of asthma,
   multiple sclerosis, arthritis, lupus erythematosus and psoriasis. In addition, the label or
   package insert may indicate that the patient to be treated is one having asthma, psoriasis,
15 arthritis or another disease or disorder. Moreover, the article of manufacture may comprise
   (a) a first container with a composition contained therein, wherein the composition comprises
   a first antibody which binds NGF and inhibits its biological activity; and (b) a second
   container with a composition contained therein, wherein the composition comprises a second
   antibody which binds an NGF receptor and blocks ligand activation. The article of
20 manufacture in this embodiment of the invention may further comprise a package insert
   indicating that the first and second compositions can be used to treat asthma, psoriasis,
   arthritis or another disease or disorder. Alternatively, or additionally, the article of
   manufacture                may     further comprise a second    (or  third)  container  comprising   a
   pharmaceutically acceptable buffer, such as bacteriostatic water for injection (BWFI),
25 phosphate-buffered saline, Ringer's solution or dextrose solution. It may further include other
   materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint, including other buffers, diluents,
   filters, needles, and syringes.
                Further details of the invention are illustrated in the following non-limiting examples.
                                                         30
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                                                      EXAMPLES
                Commercially available reagents referred to in the examples were used according to
   manufacturer's instructions unless otherwise indicated. The source of those cells identified in
   the following examples, and throughout the specification, by ATCC accession numbers is the
 5 American Type Culture Collection, Manassas, VA.
                                                      EXAMPLE I
                        Production and Characterization of Anti-NGF Monoclonal Antibodies
                A.            Production of anti-NGFmonoclonal antibodies
                This example illustrates preparation of monoclonal antibodies that can specifically
10 bind human NGF (hNGF). Techniques for producing monoclonal antibodies are well known
   in the art and are described, for instance, in Kohler and Milstein, Nature 256:495-497 (1975).
   The experiments described in Examples 1 and 2 are further described in Hongo et al.,
   Hybridoma 19:215-227.
                A panel of 23 murine monoclonal antibodies to hNGF was developed by a method
15 analogous to that described in Hongo et al., Hybridoma 14:253-260. Briefly, Balb/c mice
   (Charles River Laboratories, Wilmington, DE) were immunized with human NGF in Ribi
   adjuvant (Ribi Immunachem Research, Inc., Hamilton, MO). Splenocytes from the mouse
   demonstrating the highest titer of antibody to immobilized NGF were fused with mouse
   myeloma cells (X63.Ag8.653; American Type Culture Collection, Rockville, MD). After 10
20 14 days, supernatants were harvested and screened for antibody production by enzyme-linked
   immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Clones showing the highest immunoreactivity after the
   second round of cloning were injected into Pristane-primed mice (Hoogenraad et al., J
   Immunol. Methods 6:317-320 (1983)) for in vivo production of MAb. The ascites fluids were
   pooled          and         purified by   affinity chromatography (Pharmacia fast  protein liquid
25 chromatography; Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden) using an established procedure (Moks et al,
   Eur. J Biochem. 85:1205-1210 (1986)) on staphylococcal protein A (Pharmacia). The
   purified antibody preparations were sterile filtered and stored at 4'C in phosphate-buffered
   saline (PBS).
                B.            Epitope Mapping Using Domain Swap Mutants
30              Epitope specificity of anti-NGF MAbs was initially determined by evaluating binding
   of the MAbs to chimeric NGF/neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) proteins generated through homolog
   scanning mutagenesis. The use of such domain-swap mutants has a distinct advantage over
                                                           31
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   deletion mutants. The deletion of a domain might disrupt the secondary structure of the
   protein whereas substitution of a domain with a corresponding domain, of similar size and
   substantially similar amino acid sequence, from a related protein in domain-swap mutants is
   likely to retain the secondary structure.
 5              Eight hNGF/hNT-3 chimeric mutants, containing three to seven residue substitutions
   of the human NT-3 (hNT-3) sequence into the corresponding variable regions of hNGF
   (Figure 1) were produced by oligonucteotide-directed mutagenesis. The chimeric mutants
   were transiently expressed in human 293 cells, and the binding of anti-hNGF MAbs to
   mutant NGF was evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), as described
10 below, using the purified MAb as the capture antibody and an HRP-conjugated affinity
   purified rabbit anti-hNGF polyclonal antibody for detection. Binding of anti-hNGF MAbs to
   each NGF mutant was determined from two to four independent quantitative ELISA runs and
   was compared to binding to wild-type NGF.
                Briefly, microtiter plates (Nunc Maxisorb, VWR Scientific, San Francisco, CA) were
15 coated with 100 L per well of 1 g/mL, goat anti-mouse IgG (Boehfinger-Mannheim,
   Indianapolis, IN) overnight at 4'C, washed, and the excess binding sites were blocked with
   PBS containing 0.05% Tween 20 with 0.5% bovine serum albumin (BSA, Intergen, San
   Diego, CA; PBS/BSA/T20). MAbs (diluted to 1 g/mL in PBS/BSA/T20) were added to the
   appropriate wells and incubated for 1-2 hours at ambient temperature. The plates were
20 washed, and 100 L of wild-type or mutant hNGF (diluted in PBS/BSA/T20 to 60 ng/mL 7.8
   ng/mL) were added, incubated for 1-2 hours at ambient temperature, and again washed.
   Purified rabbit anti-hNGF polyclonal antibody conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (HRP;
   1:10,000 in PBS/BSA/T20) was added (100 L/well) and incubated for 1 hour. The plates
   were developed and read on dual wavelength. Binding of the MAbs to the hNGF mutants was
25 compared to wild-type hNGF binding (set at 100%) analyzed under the same conditions.
                Six human anti-NGF monoclonal antibodies (MAb 908, 909, 911, 912, 938 and
   14.14) that demonstrated high affinities for hNGF (EC 5 o= 0.18 nM for MAb 908, 0.18 nM for
   MAb 909, 0.37 nM for MAb 911, 0.18 for MAb 912, 0.74 for MAb 938 and 0.59 for MAb
   14.14) and a greater than          6 0 -9 0 % reduction in binding to the various chimeric mutants
30 (Figure 1) were selected for further analysis. As shown in Figure 1, three of the MAbs (908,
   909 and 14.14) displayed clear regional binding specificity, characterized by loss of 60-95%
   maximal binding to a single variable region (Figure 1). Less dramatic effects of variable
   region mutants were observed for MAbs 911, 912 and 938, with multiple NGF variable
                                                         32
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   regions contributing to the binding epitopes of these antibodies. However, the variable
   regions that comprise these epitopes are close together within the three-dimensional structure
   (Figure 3A).
                C.            Epitope Mapping Using Site-DirectedMutagenesis
 5              To further define the epitope specificity of each of the six anti-NGF MAbs selected,
   NGF mutants representing single, double, or triple amino acid point mutations were
   generated, expressed and characterized, with a particular focus on residues within regions
   previously reported to play a role in TrkA and p75 binding and biological function (Shih et
   al, J Biol Chem., 269(44):27679-27686 (1994)). The effects of the mutations on anti-NGF
10 MAb binding were characterized by ELISA as described above. Average EC5 o values for
   binding of the anti-NGF MAbs to each mutant were calculated from ELISA binding curves
   and compared to EC 5 o values obtained for wild-type NGF binding (Figure 2A-F).
                With all six MAbs, the binding specificity of the hNGF point mutants generally
   correlated with the regions previously identified by loss of binding to specific NGF chimeric
15 mutants. However, the effects of NGF point mutations on the binding of MAbs 911 and 938
   were less prominent relative to the effects observed on the other MAbs (Figure 2A-F). The
   regional specificity of the mutational effects correlated with residues within or near variable
   regions swapped in the NGF chimeric mutants, and which resulted in the loss of more than
   50-60% of the maximal binding of MAbs 911 or 938. For MAb 911, these mutations
20 included K32A + K34A + E35A, Y79A + T81 K, H84A + K88A, and R103A. Additional
   loss of binding was observed with the nearby mutations Ell A, Y52A and L112A+S113A
   (Figure 2C). This indicates that the epitope for MAb 911 spans four of the seven hNGF
   variable regions (Fig. 3C).
                D.            StructuralDependency of Epitopesfor Binding by MAbs
25              To determine whether binding of anti-NGF MAbs to hNGF depends upon the
   structural conformation of epitopes on hNGF, binding of the anti-NGF MAbs to non-reduced
   and reduced forms of hNGF was evaluated, hNGF, either untreated or reduced by treatment
   with -mercaptoethanol, was subjected to gel electrophoresis and transferred to nitrocellulose
   blots for immunoblotting. For detection of hNGF, the nitrocellulose blots were washed,
30 incubated with primary and secondary antibodies, exposed to luminol substrate (Amersham
   International, Amersham, U.K.) for 1 minute at ambient temperature with agitation, and
   exposed to x-ray film (Eastman Kodak, Rochester, NY) for 10-45 seconds. In Figure 4 it can
   be seen that several monoclonal anti-NGF antibodies exhibit minimal binding to reduced
                                                          33
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   forms of hNGF. These included MAb 938, 908, 911 and 912, indicating that epitopes on
   hNGF to which they bind are structurally affected by charge alteration and reduction.
                E.            Molecular modeling of epitopes on anti-NGFmonoclonal antibodies
                Molecular modeling representations of the identified anti-NGF MAb epitopes (Figure
 5 3A-F) were produced using the program MidasPlus (University of California at San
   Francisco, San Francisco, CA) and were based on coordinates for the three-dimensional
   structure of murine NGF as previously described (McDonald et al., Nature, 354:411-414
   (1991)).
                A summary of the MAb epitope mapping results is presented in Figure 5.
10                                                       EXAMPLE 2
                 Determination of Neutralizing Activity of Anti-NGF Monoclonal Antibodies
                The observation that some epitopes mapped in regions previously shown to be
   significant in the interaction of, NGF with TrkA and/or p75 suggested that the corresponding
   MAbs might also block one or both of these interactions.
15              A.              2 5I -hNGFBinding Assay.
                To evaluate the possibility that one or more of the anti-NGF MAbs might block NGF
                                                                     125
   binding to TrkA and/or P75, the binding of                            -hNGF to the TrkA-IgG receptor
   immunoadhesin was measured in the presence of anti-NGF monoclonal antibodies.
                                 12 5
                Briefly,              11-hNGF was prepared using a modification of the soluble lactoperoxidase
20 method originally described by Marchalonis (Marchalonis, Biochem J., 113:299-305 (1969)).
   The final reaction mixture was fractionated over a pD-10 Sephadex G-25 size exclusion
   column (Pharmacia, Uppsala, Sweden) and stored at 4'C. Microtiter plates (Nunc, Maxisorb)
   were coated overnight at 4'C with purified rabbit anti-human IgG-Fc specific polyclonal
   antibody (diluted to 2 g/ml in carbonate buffer), washed with PBS, and blocked with 150 L of
25 PBS/05% BSA (PBS/BSA). Human TrkA-IgG or p75-IgG immunoadhesins (kindly provided
   by Robert Pitti) (20 ng/ml.) in PBS/BSA were added (100 L) and incubated at ambient
   temperature for 1 hour. hNGF diluted in PBS/BSA (1550 pM final) was then added (100 L)
   and incubated for 1 hour at ambient temperature. hNGF (150 pM final) preincubated
   overnight at 4'C with anti-NGF monoclonal antibodies (667 nM 0.58 nM) or an irrelevant
30 monoclonal antibody not directed to NGF was added in parallel and incubated as described.
   The plates were washed with PBS containing 0.05% T20, and individual wells were counted
   for 1 minute on a gamma counter (Packard Cobra Model 5010, Downers Grove, IL).
                                                               34
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                 As can be seen Figure 6, the anti-NGF monoclonal antibodies inhibited binding of
   hNGF to the TrkA-IgG receptor immuncadhesin as measured by the level of               12 5I-labeled
   hNGF bound to TrkA-IgG. All of the MAbs showed blocking ability at the highest
   concentration assayed (667nM) but clearly showed different blocking capacity at lower
 5 concentrations. MAbs 911, 912 and 938 exhibited the same blocking potency (IC 5 o - 0.5-2
   nM), with 80-90% inhibition seen at 10nM MAb or greater.
                 The ability of the MAbs to inhibit the binding of hNGF to the low affinity p75
   receptor was evaluated using p75-IgG in the binding assay described above. As shown in
   Figure 7, anti-hNGF MAbs inhibit binding of hNGF to the p75-IgG receptor immunoadhesin
               12 5
10 using           I-labeled hNGF. MAbs 911, 912 and 938 shows the highest inhibitory activity with
   75-90% reduction in binding observed in the presence of less than I nM of MAb. MAb 909
   also showed potent blocking ability (> 90% inhibition with 10 nM MAb), while MAbs 908
   and 14.14 were significantly less potent (Figure 7).
                 B.           Kinase-inducedreceptoractivation (KIRA) assay.
15               A kinase-induced receptor activation (KIRA) assay was used to measure NGF
   dependent TrkA autophosphorylation in transfected cells in response to stimulation with a
   ligand, such as hNGF, and/or agonist monoclonal antibodies (Sadick et al., Exp. Coll Res.
   234:354-361 (1997)). The anti-NGF MAbs were evaluated for their ability to inhibit the
   binding of hNGF to the TrkA extracellular domain expressed on CHO transfected cells and
20 the subsequent phosphorylation of tyrosine residues on TrkA (Figure 8). Phosphorylation of
   tyrosine residues was measured by ELISA using an antiphosphotyrosine MAb.
                 Microtiter plates (Costar, Cambridge, MA) were coated with 1 X 10' chinese hamster
   ovary (CHO) cells expressing the extra-cellular domain of the TrkA receptor with a Herpes
   simplex virus glycoprotein D fragment (gD), a 26 amino acid polypeptide serving as an
25 epitope tag. Samples of either hNGF alone (150 pM) (as a positive control) or hNGF (150
   pM final) preincubated overnight at VC with the individual anti-NGF MAbs; (667nM
   0.31nM final) were then added to wells containing the TrkA expressing CHO cells (50 L per
   well) and incubated at 37'C for 25 minutes. An irrelevant monoclonal antibody not directed
   against NGF was used as a negative control. The hNGF-stimulated cells were then treated
30 with lysis buffer, and the lysates: were processed in gD-MAb-coated microtiter plates for the
   ELISA detection of TrkA-containing phosphotyrosine similar to the procedure described by
   Sadick et al (Sadick et al., Anal Biochem., 235:207-214 (1996)). 100 1 of biotinylated 4G10
   (monoclonal anti-phosphotyrosine from Upstate Biologicals, Inc. (UBI, Lake Placid, NY))
                                                          35
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   diluted to 0.2 mg/rd in dilution buffer (PBS containing 0.5% BSA, 0.05% Tween 20, 5 mM
   EDTA, and 0.01% thimerosol) was added to each well. After incubation for 2 hours at room
   temperature the plate was washed and 100 I HRP-conjugated streptavidin (Zymed
   Laboratories, S. San Francisco, CA) diluted 1:50000 in dilution buffer was added to each
 5 well. The plate was incubated for 30 minutes at room temperature with gentle agitation. The
   free avidin conjugate was washed away and 100 I freshly prepared substrate solution
   (tetramethyl benzidine, TMB,                     two-component      substrate kit, Kirkegard     and Perry,
   Gaithersbug, MD) was added to each well. The reaction was allowed to proceed for 10
   minutes, after which the color development was stopped by the addition of 100 I/well of 1.0
10 M H3 PO 4 . The absorbance at 450 nm was read with a reference wavelength of 650 nm
   (A 450 /6 50 ), using a Vmax plate reader (Molecular Devices, Palo Alto, CA) controlled with a
   Macintosh Centris 650 (Apple Computers, Cupertino, CA) and DeltaSoft software
   (BioMetallics, Inc., Princeton, NJ).
                As shown in Figure 8, all the selected anti-NGF monoclonal antibodies could inhibit
15 both the binding of hNGF to the TrkA extracellular domain expressed on CHO transfected
   cells and phosphorylation of tyrosine residues of the TrkA receptor. Preincubation of hNGF
   with MAbs 911, 912 and 938 at the lowest concentration tested (0.3 nM) resulted in
   approximately               6 0 - 80 % maximal inhibition of tyrosine phosphorylation relative to the control
   MAb. MAbs; 908, 909 and 14.14 were less potent.
20              C.            Embryonic rat dorsal root ganglion survival hibassay.
                Another assay used to determine the effects of anti-NGF monoclonal antibodies on
   NGF-dependent processes was the embryonic rat E14 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) survival
   bioassay. Anti-NGF monoclonal antibodies were evaluated for their ability to inhibit the
   survival effects of hNGF on embryonic rat E14 dorsal root ganglia (ORG) neurons (Figure
25 9).
                Dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons obtained from E 15 rats (six to eight embryos)
   were cultured in F 12 media with additives (McMahon et al, Nat. Med. 8:774-780 0995)) and
   3 ng/mL of hNGF either with or without anti-NGF monoclonal antibodies. After 72 hours of
   incubation at 37'C, the cells were fixed with formaldehyde and viable neurons were counted.
30              Figure 9 shows the inhibition of DRG neuronall survival by anti-NGF monoclonal
   antibodies. While MAbs 908, 909 and 14.14 reduced the survival by only 20-30% at the
   highest concentration (67 nM; 10 g/ml), MAbs 911 and 912 inhibited greater than 90%
                                                               36
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   survival at approximately 30-80 fold lower concentrations (0-8-2A nM; 0.12-0.37 g/ml).
   MAb 938 was able to inhibit survival activity by 90%, but was 10-30 fold less potent than
   MAbs 911 and 912.
                MAb 911 was the most potent blocker of the NGF/TrkA interaction. MAb 911
 5 recognizes an epitope containing the overlapping NGF-TrkA and p75 binding region -turn
   A'-A" (V-1) and the dominant TrkA binding region in -sheet (Figure 30). The second
   strongest NGF/TrkA inhibitor, MAb 912, recognizes the residues K32, K34 and K35, a
   region previously shown to be crucial for the NGF/p75 interaction. MAb 938, another potent
   blacker of TrkA and p75 binding also recognizes regions critical for TrkA or p75 binding, the
10 N- and C-termini.
                The observed differences in antibody blocking specificity are not due to the relative
   affinities of the MAbs toward hNGF because two of the three most potent blocking
   antibodies (911 and 938) have lower affinities for NGF than the weaker blocking MAbs.
                NGF regions critical for binding to MAbs 911 and 912 overlap with regions identified
15 as critical regions for TrkA and p75 binding. MAbs; 911 and 912 are capable blockers of
   NGF-induced activities, indicating that these would be specific antagonists of in vivo
   activities such as inflammatory hyperalgesia.
                                                        EXAMPLE 3
                                      The Effect of anti-NGF on the Immune Response
20              Mice were immunized subcutaneously with 10 g ovalburnin on day 0 and allowed to
   recover. On day 40 following immunization animals were injected IP with 10 mg/kg anti
   NGF antibody 911 or a control, isotype matched antibody. Two days later animals were
   boosted with ovalburnin. The immune response was measured by ELISA on serum samples
   taken on day 47. As can be seen in Figure 10, there was no significant (p > 0.05) difference in
25 the immune response between the animals receiving anti-NGF antibody 911 and animals
   receiving the control antibody. However, there was a non-significant trend towards an
   increase in the immune response in animals treated with the anti-NGF monoclonal antibody.
                By contrast, Figure 11 shows that following immunization with chicken gamma
   globulin, treatment with antiNGF produces a non-significant trend toward a decrease in the
30 immune response. Animals were immunized with 10 g of chicken gamma-globulin on day 0
   and treated with anti-NGF antibody 911 or a control, isotype matched antibody (10 mg/kg IP)
   on day 40. On day 42 animals were boosted with gamma-globulin and on day 47 serum
                                                            37
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   samples were taken and analyzed by ELISA. There was no significant difference (p > 0.05)
   in the immune response between the two groups. However there was a trend towards a
   decrease in the immune response following treatment with antiNGF monoclonal antibody
   911.
 5                                                     EXAMPLE 4
                                  Effect of Anti-NGF Monoclonal Antibodies on Hyperalgesia
                The effect of anti-NGF antibodies on NGF induced thermal hyperalgesia was
   investigated. Briefly, adult Fischer female rats were trained for two sessions a day with the
   Hargreaves' test for at least two days prior to treatment. After familiarization with the
10 apparatus and protocol, animals were randomly assigned to the control or experimental
   group. Both groups were tested for baseline responsiveness and then given intraplantar
   injections in one paw in a volume of 50 1 under isofluorane anaesthesia. The injections in
   each group contained 1.25% carrageenan, in combination with either 90 g of anti-NGF
   antibody or an indifferent, isotype matched control antibody.
15              Thermal withdrawal latencies were measured at 0, 2, 4, 6 and 24 hours post injection
   by the Hargreaves' test. As shown in Figure 12, at 4 and 6 hours after treatment the thermal
   hyperalgesia that follows carrageenan injection was significantly decreased in animals treated
   with anti-NGF monoclonal antibody 911 compared to control animals.
                                                       EXAMPLE 5
20                      Effect of Anti-NGF Monoclonal Antibodies on Response to Allergens
                Male C57/BL6 mice (Jackson Laboratories) were treated with either monoclonal anti
   NGF antibody 911 (n- 16) or an isotype matched anti-gD control antibody (clone 1766; n
   16). On day -1, animals were treated with 20 mg/kg of antibody and on days 6, 13, 20 and 22
   they were treated with 10 mg/kg of antibody. All antibody treatments were subcutaneously
25 injected into the scruff of the neck.
                On days 0 and 14 half of the mice in each group were sensitized (SN) by
   intraperitoneal injection of 30 AU of dust mite antigen (OMA, diluted with Dulbecco's PBS
   and then 1:2 with ALUM, as an adjuvant, for a final concentration of 300 AU/ml). The non
   sensitized mice (NS) received an equal volume of Dulbecco's PBS diluted 1:2 with ALUM
30 as a control.
                Mice were then challenged with inhaled dust mite antigen (DMA) on days 21 and 22.
   Dust mite was diluted to 6000 AUJml using Dulbecco's PBS plus 0.01% Tween-20 for
                                                            38
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

   aerosolizaton. All inhalation challenges were administered in a Plexiglas pie exposure
   chamber. DMA was aerosolized using a PARI IS-2 nebulizer driven at 22 PSI. The nebulizer
   was filled with 3 ml and run to completion (30 min.). Total deposited dosetexposure into the
   lung was - 6.5 AU DMA.
 5              Mice          were assessed for airway hyperreactivity, cellular infiltration into the
   broncheolar lavap (BAL) fluid, cytokine levels in BAL, and serum titer against dust mite as
   well as serum IgE levels. Briefly, on day 24, 48 hours after the last challenge, mice were
   anesthetized, catheterized in the jugular vein and tracheotomized. Miche were then paralyzed
   with 0.28 mglkg pancuroniurn and loaded into a Plexiglas flow plethysmograph for
10 measurement of thoracic expansion and airway pressure. Mice were ventilated using 100%
   oxygen at a frequency of 170 bpm and Vt equal to 9 11g. Breathing mechanics (lung
   resistance and dynamic compliance) were continuously monitored using the Buxco XA data
   acquisition program. Mice were given a volume history (5 breaths at 2.5x Vt), allowed to
   stabilize for 2 min before baseline measurement, and then given a one-time 5 second dose of
15 the agonist at a body weight adjusted flow rate using a Harvard syringe pump and syringe
   application software.
                Blood (serum), BAL and lungs were collected. Serum was assayed for total and
   specific IgE and IgG. BAL was obtained by injecting the same aliquot of NaCl 3 times and
   was assayed for total IgE by ELISA. Total white blood cells and cell differentials were
20 obtained from BAL cells.
                Treatment with anti-NGF monoclonal antibody caused a significant drop in airway
   hyperreactivity (Fig. 13), as well as in inflammation as measured by cellular infiltration into
   the BAL (Fig. 14). However, there is still a very high proportion of eosinophils in BAL from
   anti-NGF treated animals (Fig. 15). Anti-NGF antibody treatment also decreased the level of
25 the Th2 cytokine 11- 13 in the BAL (Fig. 16).
                Despite its ability to decrease the inflammatory response to allergen, anti-NGF
   antibody treatment did not decrease the humoral immune response to dust mite, either as
   measured by the total serum immunoglobulin titer to dust mite (Fig. 17) or by the serum level
   of IgE (Fig. 18). This indicates that the antibody did block the biological effect of NGF, but
30 did not affect the survival or function of B-lymphocytes.
                To confirm that the anti-NGF antibody 911 was having a functionally significant
   effect on NGF, a parallel experiment was carried out in which mice were injected
   subcutaneously in the scruff of the neck with 0.1, 1 or 10 mg/kg of anti-NGF monoclonal
                                                       39
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

  antibody 911 on days 1 and 8, or with NGF at 0. 1, 1 or 10 mg/kg on days 1, 3, 6 and 8.
  Animals were sacrificed on day 9 and examined for the level of the neuropeptide CGRP in
  the trigeminal ganglion. Treatment with 1 or 10 mg/kg of NGF caused an increase in CGRP,
  verifying that this peptide is regulated by NGF levels (Fig. 19). Treatment with 1 or 10 mg/kg
5 of anti-NGF monoclonal antibody 911 caused a decrease in the CGRP content of the
  ganglion (Fig. 19), verifying that this dose produces a functionally significant blockade of
  endogenous NGF at the time when the immune response was occurring in the experiment
  described above.
                                                40
  10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                                                        CLAIMS:
                 1.           A method of controlling an NGF related disorder m a human patient,
   comprising administering to said patient an effective amount of an anti-human NGF (anti
   hNGF) monoclonal antibody capable of binding hNGF with an affinity in the nanomolar
 5 range, and inhibiting the binding of hNGF to human TrkA (hTrkA) in vivo, wherein said
   antibody has no significant adverse effect on the immune system of said patient.
                2.             The method of claim 1 wherein the binding affinity of said antibody to hNGF
   is about 0.10 to about 0.80 nM.
                3.             The method of claim 2 wherein the binding affinity of said antibody to hNGF
10 is about 0.15 to about 0.75 nM.
                4.             The method of claim 2 wherein the binding affinity of said antibody to hNGF
   is about 0.18 to about 0.72 nM.
                5.             The method of claim 1 wherein said antibody binds essentially the same
   hNGF epitope as an antibody selected from the group consisting of MAb 911, MAb 912, and
15 MAb 938.
                6.             The method of claim 5 wherein said antibody binds essentially the same
   hNGF epitope as the antibody MAb 911.
                7.             The method of claim 1 wherein said antibody is also able to bind murine NGF
   (muNGF).
20              8.             The method of claim 1 wherein said antibody is an antibody fragment.
                9.             The method of claim 8 wherein said antibody fragment is selected from the
   group consisting of Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, Fv fragments, diabodies, single-chain antibody
   molecules, and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.
                 10.           The method of claim 9 wherein said single-chain antibody molecule is a
25 single-chain Fv (scFv) molecule.
                 11.           The method of claim 1 wherein said antibody is chimeric.
                 12.           The method of clam 1 wherein said antibody is humanized.
                 13.           The method of claim 1 wherein said antibody is human.
                 14.           The method of claim 1 wherein said antibody is a bispecific antibody.
30               15.           The method of claim 14 wherein said bispecific antibody has an anti-IgE
   specificity.
                 16.           The method of claim 1 wherein said NGF-related disorder is other than a
   disorder associated with the effect of NGF on the neuronal system.
                                                            41
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                 17.           The method of claim      16  wherein    said NGF-related      disorder is an
   inflammatory condition.
                 18.           The method of claim 17 wherein said inflammatory condition is selected from
   the group consisting of asthma, multiple sclerosis, arthritis, lupus erythematosus, and
 5 psoriasis.
                 19.           The method of claim 18 wherein said condition is asthma.
                20.            The method of claim 18 wherein said condition is arthritis.
                21.            The method of claim 20 wherein said arthritis is rheumatoid arthritis.
                22.            The method of claim 18 wherein said condition is psoriasis.
10              23.            The method of claim 17 wherein said antibody is administered in combination
   with another therapeutic agent for the treatment of said inflammatory condition.
                24.            The method of claim 18 wherein said antibody is administered in combination
   with a corticosteroid.
                25.            The method of claim 24 wherein said corticosteroid is beclomethasone
15 dipropionate (BDP).
                26.            The method of claim 19 wherein said antibody is administered in combination
   with an anti-IgE antibody.
                27.            The method of claim 26 wherein said anti-IgE antibody is rhuMAb-E25 or
   rhuMAb-E26.
20              28.            The method of claim 21 wherein said antibody is administered in combination
   with another therapeutic agent for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
                29.            The method of claim 28 wherein said other therapeutic agent is an anti-TNF
   antibody or an antibody or immunoadhesin specifically binding a TNF receptor.
                30.           A pharmaceutical composition comprising a chimeric, humanized or human
25 anti-human NGF (anti-hNGF) monoclonal antibody capable of binding hNGF with an
   affinity in the nanomolar range, and inhibiting the binding of hNGF to human TrkA (hTrkA)
   in vivo, wherein said antibody has no significant adverse effect on the immune system of a
   patient, in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
                31.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 30 wherein said antibody is an
30 antibody fragment.
                32.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 31 wherein said antibody fragment
   is selected from the group consisting of Fab, Fab', F(ab')2, Fv fragments, diabodies, single
   chain antibody molecules, and multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragments.
                                                           42
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

                33.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 30 wherein said antibody is a
   bispecific antibody.
                34.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 33 wherein said bispecific antibody
   is capable of specific binding to native human IgE.
 5              35.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 33 wherein said bispecific antibody
   is capable of specific binding to native human TNF or a native human TNF receptor.
                36.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 30 further comprising another
   pharmaceutically active ingredient.
                37.            The    pharmaceutical   composition    of  claim   36   wherein    said  other
10 pharmaceutically active ingredient is suitable for the treatment of an inflammatory condition.
                38.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 37 wherein said inflammatory
   condition is selected from the group consisting of asthma, multiple sclerosis, arthritis, lupas
   erythematosus and psoriasis.
                39.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 38 wherein said inflammatory
15 condition is asthma.
                40.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 38 wherein said inflammatory
   condition is arthritis.
                41.            The pharmaceutical     composition of claim 40 wherein said arthritis is
   rheumatoid arthritis.
20              42.            The pharmaceutical composition of claim 41 wherein said inflammatory
   condition is psoriasis.
                43.           An article of manufacture comprising:
                               a container;
                               a pharmaceutical composition of clam 30; and
25                             instructions for using the composition of matter to control an NGF-related
                disorder in a human patient.
                44.            The article of manufacture      of claim 43 further comprising a second
   pharmaceutically active ingredient.
                45.            The article of manufacture of claim 44 wherein said second pharmaceutically
30 active ingredient is suitable for the treatment of an inflammatory condition.
                46.            The article of manufacture of claim 45 wherein said inflammatory condition is
   selected from                  the group   consisting  of asthma,     multiple sclerosis, arthritis, lupus
   erythematosus and psoriasis.
                                                              43
   10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

             47.            The article of manufacture of claim 43 further comprising a second container
with a composition contained therein, wherein the composition comprises a second antibody
which binds an NGF receptor and blocks ligand activation.
                                                          44
10333696_1 (GHMatters) P51344.AU.5

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
