                                          ABSTRACT
The present invention provides compositions and methods for treating cancer in a patient. In
one embodiment, the method comprises a first-line therapy comprising administering to a
patient in need thereof a genetically modified T cell expressing a CAR wherein the CAR
comprises an antigen binding domain, a transmembrane domain, a costimulatory signaling
region, and a CD3 zeta signaling domain and monitoring the levels of cytokines in the patient
post T cell infusion to determine the type of second-line of therapy appropriate for treating
the patient as a consequence of the presence of the CAR T cell in the patient.

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
                                   TITLE OF THE INVENTION
            TOXICITY MANAGEMENT FOR ANTI-TUMOR ACTIVITY OF CARS
                     CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATION
  5                  This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application
     No. 61/671,482, filed on July 13, 2012 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No.
     61/782,982, filed on March 14, 2013, each of which application is hereby
     incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 10                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                     Patients with relapsed and chemotherapy-refractory acute lymphocytic
     leukemia (ALL) have a poor prognosis despite the use of aggressive therapies such as
     allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (Barrett et al., 1994, N Engl J Med
     331:1253-8; Gokbuget et al., 2012, Blood 120:2032-41) and bi-specific CD19
 15  antibody fragments (Bargou et al., 2008, Science 321:974-7). Chimeric antigen
     receptor modified T cells targeting lineage-specific antigens CD19 and CD20 have
     been reported to be effective in adults with CLL and B-cell lymphomas (Till et al.,
     2008, Blood 112:2261-71; Kochenderfer et al., 2010, Blood 116:4099-102; Brentjens
     et al., 2011, Blood 118:4817-28; Porter et al., 2011, N Engl J Med 365:725-33; Kalos
20   et al., 2011, Science Translational Medicine 3:95ra73; Savoldo et al., 2011, J Clin
     Invest 121:1822-5). However, the effects of CAR T cells on ALL blasts, a more
     immature leukemia with a more rapid progression, have not been fully investigated.
                     Delayed onset of the tumor lysis syndrome and cytokine secretion,
     combined with vigorous in vivo chimeric antigen receptor T-cell expansion has been
25   reported (Porter et al., 2011, N Engl J Med 365:725-33; Kalos et al., 2011, Science
     Translational Medicine 3:95ra73). However, the effects of cytokine secretion and
     disorders associated with in vivo chimeric antigen recept T-cell expansion have not
     been fully investigated.
                     Thus, there is an urgent need in the art for compositions and methods
30   for treatment of cancer using CARs and addressing toxicity of the CARs. The present
     invention addresses this need.

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
                     The invention provides a method of treating a patient having a disease,
     disorder or condition associated with an elevated expression of a tumor antigen. In
     one embodiment, the method comprises administering a first-line therapy and a
  5  second-line therapy to a patient in need thereof, wherein the first line therapy
     comprises administering to the patient an effective amount of a cell genetically
     modified to express a CAR, wherein the CAR comprises an antigen binding domain, a
     transmembrane domain, and an intracellular signaling domain.
                     In one embodiment, following the administration of the first-line
 10  therapy, cytokine levels in the patient are monitored to determine the appropriate type
     of second-line therapy to be administered to the patient and the appropriate second
     line therapy is administered to the patient in need thereof.
                     In one embodiment, an increase in the level of a cytokine identifies a
     type of cytokine inhibitory therapy to be administered to the patient in need thereof.
 15                  In one embodiment, the cytokine is selected from the group consisting
     of IL-1p, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17, IL-iRa, IL
     2R, IFN-a, IFN-y, MIP-la, MIP-1p, MCP-1, TNFa, GM-CSF, G-CSF, CXCL9,
     CXCL10, CXCR factors, VEGF, RANTES, EOTAXIN, EGF, HGF, FGF-p, CD40,
     CD40L, ferritin, and any combination thereof.
20                   In one embodiment, the cytokine inhibitory therapy is selected from
     the group consisting of a small interfering RNA (siRNA), a microRNA, an antisense
     nucleic acid, a ribozyme, an expression vector encoding a transdominant negative
     mutant, an antibody, a peptide, a small molecule, a cytokine inhibitory drug, and any
     combination thereof.
25                   In one embodiment, the cytokine levels are monitored by detecting the
     protein level of the cytokine in a biological sample from the patient.
                     In one embodiment, the cytokine levels are monitored by detecting the
     nucleic acid level of the cytokine in a biological sample from the patient.
                     The invention provides a method of reducing or avoiding an adverse
30   effect associated with the administration of a cell genetically modified to express a
     CAR, wherein the CAR comprises an antigen binding domain, a transmembrane
     domain, and an intracellular signaling domain, the method comprising monitoring the
     levels of a cytokine in a patient to determine the appropriate type of cytokine therapy
                                                       2

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
     to be administered to the patient and administering the appropriate cytokine therapy to
     the patient.
                     In one embodiment, an increase in the level of a cytokine identifies a
     type of cytokine inhibitory therapy to be administered to the patient.
  5                  In one embodiment, the cytokine is selected from the group consisting
     of IL-1p, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17, IL-IRa, IL
     2R, IFN-a, IFN-y, MIP-la, MIP-1p, MCP-1, TNFa, GM-CSF, G-CSF, CXCL9,
     CXCL10, CXCR factors, VEGF, RANTES, EOTAXIN, EGF, HGF, FGF-p, CD40,
     CD40L, ferritin, and any combination thereof.
 10                  In one embodiment, the cytokine inhibitory therapy is selected from
     the group consisting of a small interfering RNA (siRNA), a microRNA, an antisense
     nucleic acid, a ribozyme, an expression vector encoding a transdominant negative
     mutant, an intracellular antibody, a peptide, a small molecule, a cytokine inhibitory
     drug, and any combination thereof.
 15                  In one embodiment, the cytokine levels are monitored by detecting the
     protein level of the cytokine in a biological sample from the patient.
                     In one embodiment, the cytokine levels are monitored by detecting the
     nucleic acid level of the cytokine in a biological sample from the patient.
20                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
                     The following detailed description of preferred embodiments of the
     invention will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended
     drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention, there are shown in the
     drawings embodiments which are presently preferred. It should be understood,
25   however, that the invention is not limited to the precise arrangements and
     instrumentalities of the embodiments shown in the drawings.
                     Figure 1 is an image demonstrating serum cytokine levels in four
     different patients. All patients exhibited cytokine release, including IL-6.
                     Figure 2 is an image depicting serum cytokines plotted in a
30   representative patient. The patient was critically ill on days 5 to 7, and only began to
     improve following tocilizumab administration.
                     Figure 3 is an image demonstrating that antibody interventions do not
     impact CART 19 cellular functionality as measured for markers of T cell activity
     (perforin and IFN-y).
                                                        3

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
                     Figure 4, comprising Figures 4A through 4C, is a series of images
     depicting clinical responses. Figure 4A shows two children with multiply-relapsed
     chemotherapy-refractory CD 19+ B cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia who
     were treated with CTLO19 cells, infused on Day 0. Changes in serum lactate
  5  dehydrogenase (LDH) and body temperature after CTLO19 infusion, with maximum
     temperature per 24 hour period demarcated with circles. CHOP-100 was given
     methylprednisolone starting on day 5 at 2mg/kg/day, tapered to off by day 12. On the
     morning of day 7, etanercept was given 0.8 mg/kg x 1. At 6pm in the evening of day
     7, tocilizumab 8 mg/kg x 1 was administered. A transient improvement in pyrexia
 10  occurred with administration of corticosteroids on day 5 in CHOP-100, with complete
     resolution of fevers occurring after administration of cytokine-directed therapy
     consisting of etanercept and tocilizumab on day 8. Figure 4B shows serum cytokines
     and inflammatory markers measured at frequent time points after CTLO19 infusion.
     Cytokine values are shown using a semi-logarithmic plot with fold-change from
 15  baseline. Baseline (Day 0 pre-infusion) values (pg/ml serum) for each analyte were
     (CHOP-100, CHOP-101): IL1-p: (0.9, 0.2); IL-6: (4.3, 1.9); TNF-ax: (1.5, 0.4); IL2Rax:
     (418.8, 205.7); IL-2: (0.7, 0.4); IL-10 (9.9, 2.3); ILIRa: (43.9, 27.9). Both patients
     developed pronounced elevations in a number of cytokines and cytokine receptors,
     including soluble interleukin 1A and 2 receptor (IL-IRA and IL-2R), interleukins 2, 6
20   and 10 (IL-2, IL-6 and IL-10), tumor necrosis factor-a (TNF-a), and interferon-7
     (INF-7). Figure 4C shows changes in circulating absolute neutrophil count (ANC),
     absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) and white blood cell (WBC) count. Of note, the
     increase in the ALC was primarily composed of activated CT019 T lymphocytes.
                     Figure 5, comprising Figures 5A through 5D, is a series of imaged
25   depicting expansion and visualization of CTLO 19 cells in peripheral blood, bone
     marrow and CSF. Figure 5A shows flow cytometric analysis of peripheral blood
     stained with antibodies to detect CD3 and the anti-CD 19 CAR. Depicted are the
     percent of CD3 cells expressing the CAR in CHOP-100 and CHOP-101. Figure 5B
     shows the presence of CTLO19 T cells in peripheral blood, bone marrow, and CSF by
30   quantitative real-time PCR. Genomic DNA was isolated from whole blood, bone
     marrow aspirates and CSF collected at serial time points before and after CTLO19
     infusion. Figure 5C shows flow cytometric detection of CTLO19 cells in CSF
     collected from CHOP-100 and CHOP-101. Figure 5D shows images of activated large
     granular lymphocytes in Wright-stained smears of the peripheral blood and cytospins
                                                         4

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
     of the CSF.
                      Figure 6 is an image showing CD19 expression at baseline and at
     relapse in CHOP-101. Bone marrow samples from CHOP-101 were obtained prior to
     CTLO19 infusion and at time of relapse 2 months later. Mononuclear cells isolated
  5  from marrow samples were stained for CD45, CD34 and CD19 and analyzed on an
     Accuri C6 flow cytometer. After gating on live cells, the blast gate (CD45+ SSC low)
     was subgated on CD34+ cells and histograms generated for CD19 expression.
     Division line represents threshold for the same gating on isotype controls. Pre-therapy
     blasts have a range of distribution of CD 19, with a small population of very dim
 10  staining cells seen as the tail of the left histogram at 102 on the X-axis. The relapse
     sample does not have any CD19 positive blasts. Analysis of CD19 expression on the
     pre-treatment blast population revealed a small population of CD 19 dim or negative
     cells. The mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of this small population of cells was 187
     (left panel), similar to the MFI of the anti-CD 19-stained relapsed blast cells (201,
 15  right panel). Pre-therapy marrow sample was hypocellular with 10% blasts and
     relapse marrowsample was normocellular with 68% blasts, accounting for differences
     in events available for acquisition.
                      Figure 7 is an image showing induction of remission in bone marrow
     in CHOP-101 on day +23 after CTLO19 infusion. Clinical immunophenotyping report
20   for CHOP-101 at baseline (Top panel) and at day +23 (Bottom panel). Cells were
     stained for CD10, CD19, CD20, CD34, CD38 and CD58. Flow cytometry was done
     after lysis of the red blood cells. The report on day +23 indicated that the white blood
     cells consisted of 42.0 % lymphocytes, 6.0 % monocytes, 50.3 % myeloid forms, 0.17
     % myeloid blasts and no viable lymphoid progenitors. There was no convincing
25   immunophenotypic evidence of residual precursor B cell lymphoblastic
     leukemia/lymphoma by flow cytometry. Essentially no viable B cells were identified.
                      Figure 8 is an image depicting in vivo expansion and persistence of
     CTLO19 cells in blood. The number of white blood cells (WBC), CD3+ T cells, and
     CTLO19 cells in blood is shown for CHOP-100 and CHOP-101. Cell numbers are
30   shown on a semi-logarithmic plot.
                      Figure 9, comprising Figures 9A and 9B, is a series of images
     demonstrating that subjects had an elimination of CD19 positive cells in bone marrow
     and blood within 1 month after CTLO19 infusion. Figure 9A shows persistent B cell
     aplasia in CHOP-100. The top panel shows a predominant population of leukemic
                                                         5

WO 2014/011984                                                               PCT/US2013/050267
     blast cells in bone marrow aspirated from CHOP-100 expressing CD19 and CD20 on
     day +6. This population is absent at day +23 and 6 months. Figure 9B shows B cell
     aplasia and emergence of CD19 escape variant cells in CHOP-101. Flow cytometric
     analysis of bone marrow aspirates from CHOP-101 stained with anti-CD45, CD34
  5  and CD19. In the bottom row, side scatter and the CD45 dim positive cells were used
     to identify leukemic cells that express variable amounts of CD34 and CD19 at
     baseline. Only CD 19 negative blasts were detected on day 64. Numerical values in the
     top panel represent the fraction of the total leukocytes represented in each quadrant.
     Numerical values in the lower panel represent the percentage from the total
 10  leukocytes represented in the CD45dim/SS low gate.
                      Figure 10 is a graph depicting the levels of ferritin present in the
     patient following receipt of CAR T cells.
                      Figure 11 is a graph depicting the levels of myoglobin present in the
     patient following receipt of CAR T cells.
 15                   Figure 12 is a graph depicting the levels of plasminogen activator
     inhibitor-I (PAI-1) present in the patient following receipt of CAR T cells.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
                      The invention relates to compositions and methods for treating cancer
20   including but not limited to hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. The
     invention also encompasses methods of treating and preventing certain types of
     cancer, including primary and metastatic cancer, as well as cancers that are refractory
     or resistant to conventional chemotherapy. The methods comprise administering to a
     patient in need of such treatment or prevention a therapeutically or prophylactically
25   effective amount of a T cell transduced to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR).
     CARs are molecules that combine antibody-based specificity for a desired antigen
     (e.g., tumor antigen) with a T cell receptor-activating intracellular domain to generate
     a chimeric protein that exhibits a specific anti-tumor cellular immune activity.
                      As part of the overall treatment regimen, the invention encompasses
30   methods of managing certain cancers (e.g., preventing or prolonging their recurrence,
     or lengthening the time of remission) by evaluating the profile of soluble factors in
     patients post T cell infusion. Preferably, the profile of soluble factors includes
     evaluation of a cytokine profile. When the cytokine profile indicates an increase in a
     particular cytokine post T cell infusion compared to pre T cell infusion, a skilled
                                                        6

WO 2014/011984                                                               PCT/US2013/050267
     artisan can elect to administer to the patient in need of such management an effective
     amount of a cytokine inhibitory compound or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt,
     solvate, hydrate, stereoisomer, clathrate, or pro drug thereof to manage the elevated
     levels of the cytokine post T cell infusion.
  5                  The present invention is partly based on the discovery that the identify
     of a unique combination of factors whose modulation from baseline or pre-existing
     levels at baseline can help track T cell activation, target activity, and potential harmful
     side effects following CAR T cell infusion in order to help manage the treatment of
     the cancer. Exemplary factors include but are not limited to IL-1P, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5,
 10  IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17, IL-IRa, IL-2R, IFN-a, IFN-y, MIP-lax,
     MIP-1p, MCP-1, TNFa, GM-CSF, G-CSF, CXCL9, CXCL1O, CXCR factors, VEGF,
     RANTES, EOTAXIN, EGF, HGF, FGF-p, CD40, CD40L, ferritin, and the like.
                     The present invention relates to a strategy of adoptive cell transfer of T
     cells transduced to express a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) in combination with
 15  toxicity management, where a profile of soluble factors from a post T cell infusion
     patient is generated and a therapy directed against the elevated soluble factor is
     carried out in order to treat the cancer. For example, generating a real time soluble
     factor profile allows for intervention of the elevated soluble factors with the
     appropriate inhibitor in order to bring the levels down to normal levels.
20                   In one embodiment, the CAR of the invention comprises an
     extracellular domain having an antigen recognition domain that targets a desired
     antigen, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain. The invention is not
     limited to a specific CAR. Rather, any CAR that targets a desired antigen can be used
     in the present invention. Compositions and methods of making CARs have been
25   described in PCT/US1 1/6419 1, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety
     herein.
                     In some embodiments of any of the methods above, the methods result
     in a measurable reduction in tumor size or evidence of disease or disease progression,
     complete response, partial response, stable disease, increase or elongation of
30   progression free survival, increase or elongation of overall survival, or reduction in
     toxicity.
                                                        7

WO 2014/011984                                                               PCT/US2013/050267
     Definitions
                      Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein
     have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to
     which the invention pertains. Although any methods and materials similar or
  5  equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice for testing of the
     present invention, the preferred materials and methods are described herein. In
     describing and claiming the present invention, the following terminology will be used.
                      It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the
     purpose of describing particular embodiments only, and is not intended to be limiting.
 10                   The articles "a" and "an" are used herein to refer to one or to more
     than one (i.e., to at least one) of the grammatical object of the article. By way of
     example, "an element" means one element or more than one element.
                      "About" as used herein when referring to a measurable value such as
     an amount, a temporal duration, and the like, is meant to encompass variations of
 15  ±20% or ±10%, in some instances        ±5%, in some instances ±1%, and in some
     instances ±0.1 % from the specified value, as such variations are appropriate to
     perform the disclosed methods.
                      "Activation," as used herein, refers to the state of a T cell that has been
     sufficiently stimulated to induce detectable cellular proliferation. Activation can also
20   be associated with induced cytokine production, and detectable effector functions.
     The term "activated T cells" refers to, among other things, T cells that are undergoing
     cell division.
                      "Activators" or "agonists" of a soluble factor are used herein to refer to
     molecules of agents capable of activating or increasing the levels of the soluble factor.
25   Activators are compounds that increase, promote, induce activation, activate, or
     upregulate the activity or expression of soluble factor, e.g., agonists. Assays for
     detecting activators include, e.g., expressing the soluble factor in vitro, in cells, or cell
     membranes, applying putative agonist compounds, and then determining the
     functional effects on activity of the soluble factor, as described elsewhere herein.
30                    The term "antibody," as used herein, refers to an immunoglobulin
     molecule which specifically binds with an antigen. Antibodies can be intact
     immunoglobulins derived from natural sources or from recombinant sources and can
     be immunoreactive portions of intact immunoglobulins. Antibodies are often
     tetramers of immunoglobulin molecules. The antibodies in the present invention may
                                                          8

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
     exist in a variety of forms including, for example, polyclonal antibodies, monoclonal
     antibodies, Fv, Fab and F(ab) 2 , as well as single chain antibodies and humanized
     antibodies (Harlow et al., 1999, In: Using Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual, Cold
     Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, NY; Harlow et al., 1989, In: Antibodies: A
  5  Laboratory Manual, Cold Spring Harbor, New York; Houston et al., 1988, Proc. Natl.
     Acad. Sci. USA 85:5879-5883; Bird et al., 1988, Science 242:423-426).
                      The term "antibody fragment" refers to a portion of an intact antibody
     and refers to the antigenic determining variable regions of an intact antibody.
     Examples of antibody fragments include, but are not limited to, Fab, Fab', F(ab')2,
 10  and Fv fragments, linear antibodies, scFv antibodies, and multispecific antibodies
     formed from antibody fragments.
                      The term "antigen" or "Ag" as used herein is defined as a molecule
     that provokes an immune response. This immune response may involve either
     antibody production, or the activation of specific immunologically-competent cells, or
 15  both. The skilled artisan will understand that any macromolecule, including virtually
     all proteins or peptides, can serve as an antigen. Furthermore, antigens can be derived
     from recombinant or genomic DNA. A skilled artisan will understand that any DNA,
     which comprises a nucleotide sequences or a partial nucleotide sequence encoding a
     protein that elicits an immune response therefore encodes an "antigen" as that term is
20   used herein. Furthermore, one skilled in the art will understand that an antigen need
     not be encoded solely by a full length nucleotide sequence of a gene. It is readily
     apparent that the present invention includes, but is not limited to, the use of partial
     nucleotide sequences of more than one gene and that these nucleotide sequences are
     arranged in various combinations to elicit the desired immune response. Moreover, a
25   skilled artisan will understand that an antigen need not be encoded by a "gene" at all.
     It is readily apparent that an antigen can be generated synthesized or can be derived
     from a biological sample. Such a biological sample can include, but is not limited to a
     tissue sample, a tumor sample, a cell or a biological fluid.
                      The term "auto-antigen" means, in accordance with the present
30   invention, any self-antigen which is recognized by the immune system as if it were
     foreign. Auto-antigens comprise, but are not limited to, cellular proteins,
     phosphoproteins, cellular surface proteins, cellular lipids, nucleic acids, glycoproteins,
     including cell surface receptors.
                                                         9

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
                     The term "autoimmune disease" as used herein is defined as a disorder
     that results from an autoimmune response. An autoimmune disease is the result of an
     inappropriate and excessive response to a self-antigen. Examples of autoimmune
     diseases include but are not limited to, Addision's disease, alopecia greata, ankylosing
  5  spondylitis, autoimmune hepatitis, autoimmune parotitis, Crohn's disease, diabetes
     (Type I), dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa, epididymitis, glomerulonephritis, Graves'
     disease, Guillain-Barr syndrome, Hashimoto's disease, hemolytic anemia, systemic
     lupus erythematosus, multiple sclerosis, myasthenia gravis, pemphigus vulgaris,
     psoriasis, rheumatic fever, rheumatoid arthritis, sarcoidosis, scleroderma, Sjogren's
 10  syndrome, spondyloarthropathies, thyroiditis, vasculitis, vitiligo, myxedema,
     pernicious anemia, ulcerative colitis, among others.
                     As used herein, the term "autologous" is meant to refer to any material
     derived from the same individual to which it is later to be re-introduced into the
     individual.
 15                  "Allogeneic" refers to a graft derived from a different animal of the
     same species.
                     "Xenogeneic" refers to a graft derived from an animal of a different
     species.
                     The term "cancer" as used herein is defined as disease characterized by
20   the rapid and uncontrolled growth of aberrant cells. Cancer cells can spread locally or
     through the bloodstream and lymphatic system to other parts of the body. Examples of
     various cancers include but are not limited to, breast cancer, prostate cancer, ovarian
     cancer, cervical cancer, skin cancer, pancreatic cancer, colorectal cancer, renal cancer,
     liver cancer, brain cancer, lymphoma, leukemia, lung cancer and the like.
25                   As used herein, by "combination therapy" is meant that a first agent is
     administered in conjunction with another agent. "In conjunction with" refers to
     administration of one treatment modality in addition to another treatment modality.
     As such, "in conjunction with" refers to administration of one treatment modality
     before, during, or after delivery of the other treatment modality to the individual. Such
30   combinations are considered to be part of a single treatment regimen or regime.
                     As used herein, the term "concurrent administration" means that the
     administration of the first therapy and that of a second therapy in a combination
     therapy overlap with each other.
                                                        10

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
                     "Co-stimulatory ligand," as the term is used herein, includes a
     molecule on an antigen presenting cell (e.g., an aAPC, dendritic cell, B cell, and the
     like) that specifically binds a cognate co-stimulatory molecule on a T cell, thereby
     providing a signal which, in addition to the primary signal provided by, for instance,
  5  binding of a TCR/CD3 complex with an MHC molecule loaded with peptide,
     mediates a T cell response, including, but not limited to, proliferation, activation,
     differentiation, and the like. A co-stimulatory ligand can include, but is not limited to,
     CD7, B7-1 (CD80), B7-2 (CD86), PD-Li, PD-L2, 4-1BBL, OX40L, inducible
     costimulatory ligand (ICOS-L), intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM), CD30L,
 10  CD40, CD70, CD83, HLA-G, MICA, MICB, HVEM, lymphotoxin beta receptor,
     3/TR6, ILT3, ILT4, HVEM, an agonist or antibody that binds Toll ligand receptor and
     a ligand that specifically binds with B7-H3. A co-stimulatory ligand also
     encompasses, inter alia, an antibody that specifically binds with a co-stimulatory
     molecule present on a T cell, such as, but not limited to, CD27, CD28, 4-1BB, OX40,
 15  CD30, CD40, PD-1, ICOS, lymphocyte function-associated antigen-i (LFA-1), CD2,
     CD7, LIGHT, NKG2C, B7-H3, and a ligand that specifically binds with CD83.
                     A "co-stimulatory molecule" refers to the cognate binding partner on a
     T cell that specifically binds with a co-stimulatory ligand, thereby mediating a co
     stimulatory response by the T cell, such as, but not limited to, proliferation. Co
20   stimulatory molecules include, but are not limited to an MHC class I molecule, BTLA
     and a Toll ligand receptor.
                     A "co-stimulatory signal," as used herein, refers to a signal, which in
     combination with a primary signal, such as TCR/CD3 ligation, leads to T cell
     proliferation and/or upregulation or downregulation of key molecules.
25                   A "disease" is a state of health of an animal wherein the animal cannot
     maintain homeostasis, and wherein if the disease is not ameliorated then the animal's
     health continues to deteriorate. In contrast, a "disorder" in an animal is a state of
     health in which the animal is able to maintain homeostasis, but in which the animal's
     state of health is less favorable than it would be in the absence of the disorder. Left
30   untreated, a disorder does not necessarily cause a further decrease in the animal's state
     of health.
                     An "effective amount" as used herein, means an amount which
     provides a therapeutic or prophylactic benefit.
                                                        11

WO 2014/011984                                                            PCT/US2013/050267
                      As used herein "endogenous" refers to any material from or produced
     inside an organism, cell, tissue or system.
                      As used herein, the term "exogenous" refers to any material introduced
     to an organism, cell, tissue or system that was produced outside the organism, cell,
  5  tissue or system.
                      The term "expression" as used herein is defined as the transcription
     and/or translation of a particular nucleotide sequence driven by its promoter.
                      "Expression vector" refers to a vector comprising a recombinant
     polynucleotide comprising expression control sequences operatively linked to a
 10  nucleotide sequence to be expressed. An expression vector comprises sufficient cis
     acting elements for expression; other elements for expression can be supplied by the
     host cell or in an in vitro expression system. Expression vectors include all those
     known in the art, such as cosmids, plasmids (e.g., naked or contained in liposomes)
     and viruses (e.g., lentiviruses, retroviruses, adenoviruses, and adeno-associated
 15  viruses) that incorporate the recombinant polynucleotide.
                      "Homologous" refers to the sequence similarity or sequence identity
     between two polypeptides or between two nucleic acid molecules. When a position in
     both of the two compared sequences is occupied by the same base or amino acid
     monomer subunit, e.g., if a position in each of two DNA molecules is occupied by
20   adenine, then the molecules are homologous at that position. The percent of homology
     between two sequences is a function of the number of matching or homologous
     positions shared by the two sequences divided by the number of positions compared
     X 100. For example, if 6 of 10 of the positions in two sequences are matched or
     homologous then the two sequences are 60% homologous. By way of example, the
25   DNA sequences ATTGCC and TATGGC share 50% homology. Generally, a
     comparison is made when two sequences are aligned to give maximum homology.
                      The term "immunoglobulin" or "Ig," as used herein, is defined as a
     class of proteins, which function as antibodies. Antibodies expressed by B cells are
     sometimes referred to as the BCR (B cell receptor) or antigen receptor. The five
30   members included in this class of proteins are IgA, IgG, IgM, IgD, and IgE. IgA is the
     primary antibody that is present in body secretions, such as saliva, tears, breast milk,
     gastrointestinal secretions and mucus secretions of the respiratory and genitourinary
     tracts. IgG is the most common circulating antibody. IgM is the main immunoglobulin
     produced in the primary immune response in most subjects. It is the most efficient
                                                        12

WO 2014/011984                                                               PCT/US2013/050267
     immunoglobulin in agglutination, complement fixation, and other antibody responses,
     and is important in defense against bacteria and viruses. IgD is the immunoglobulin
     that has no known antibody function, but may serve as an antigen receptor. IgE is the
     immunoglobulin that mediates immediate hypersensitivity by causing release of
  5  mediators from mast cells and basophils upon exposure to allergen.
                      As used herein, the term "immune response" includes T cell mediated
     and/or B cell mediated immune responses. Exemplary immune responses include T
     cell responses, e.g., cytokine production and cellular cytotoxicity. In addition, the
     term immune response includes immune responses that are indirectly effected by T
 10  cell activation, e.g., antibody production (humoral responses) and activation of
     cytokine responsive cells, e.g., macrophages. Immune cells involved in the immune
     response include lymphocytes, such as B cells and T cells (CD4+, CD8+, Th1 and
     Th2 cells); antigen presenting cells (e.g., professional antigen presenting cells such as
     dendritic cells, macrophages, B lymphocytes, Langerhans cells, and non-professional
 15  antigen presenting cells such as keratinocytes, endothelial cells, astrocytes,
     fibroblasts, oligodendrocytes); natural killer cells; myeloid cells, such as
     macrophages, eosinophils, mast cells, basophils, and granulocytes.
                      "Inhibitors" or "antagonists" of a soluble factor are used herein to refer
     to molecules of agents capable of inhibiting, inactivating or reducing the levels of the
20   soluble factor. Inhibitors are compounds that, e.g., bind to, partially or totally block
     activity, decrease, prevent, delay activation, inactivate, desensitize, or down regulate
     the activity or expression of soluble factor, e.g., antagonists. Inhibitors include
     polypeptide inhibitors, such as antibodies, soluble receptors and the like, as well as
     nucleic acid inhibitors such as siRNA or antisense RNA, genetically modified
25   versions of the soluble factor, e.g., versions with altered activity, as well as naturally
     occurring and synthetic soluble factor antagonists, small chemical molecules and the
     like. Assays for detecting inhibitors include, e.g., expressing the soluble factor in
     vitro, in cells, or cell membranes, applying putative antagonist compounds, and then
     determining the functional effects on activity of the soluble factor, as described
30   elsewhere herein.
                      As used herein, an "instructional material" includes a publication, a
     recording, a diagram, or any other medium of expression which can be used to
     communicate the usefulness of the compositions and methods of the invention. The
     instructional material of the kit of the invention may, for example, be affixed to a
                                                        13

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
     container which contains the nucleic acid, peptide, and/or composition of the
     invention or be shipped together with a container which contains the nucleic acid,
     peptide, and/or composition. Alternatively, the instructional material may be shipped
     separately from the container with the intention that the instructional material and the
  5  compound be used cooperatively by the recipient.
                     "Isolated" means altered or removed from the natural state. For
     example, a nucleic acid or a peptide naturally present in a living animal is not
     "isolated," but the same nucleic acid or peptide partially or completely separated from
     the coexisting materials of its natural state is "isolated." An isolated nucleic acid or
 10  protein can exist in substantially purified form, or can exist in a non-native
     environment such as, for example, a host cell.
                     A "lentivirus" as used herein refers to a genus of the Retroviridae
     family. Lentiviruses are unique among the retroviruses in being able to infect non
     dividing cells; they can deliver a significant amount of genetic information into the
 15  DNA of the host cell, so they are one of the most efficient methods of a gene delivery
     vector. HIV, SIV, and FIV are all examples of lentiviruses. Vectors derived from
     lentiviruses offer the means to achieve significant levels of gene transfer in vivo.
                     The phrase "level of a soluble factor " in a biological sample as used
     herein typically refers to the amount of protein, protein fragment or peptide levels of
20   the soluble factor that is present in a biological sample. A "level of a soluble factor"
     need not be quantified, but can simply be detected, e.g., a subjective, visual detection
     by a human, with or without comparison to a level from a control sample or a level
     expected of a control sample.
                     By the term "modulating," as used herein, is meant mediating a
25   detectable increase or decrease in the level of a response in a subject compared with
     the level of a response in the subject in the absence of a treatment or compound,
     and/or compared with the level of a response in an otherwise identical but untreated
     subject. The term encompasses perturbing and/or affecting a native signal or response
     thereby mediating a beneficial therapeutic response in a subject, preferably, a human.
30                   "Parenteral" administration of an immunogenic composition includes,
     e.g., subcutaneous (s.c.), intravenous (i.v.), intramuscular (i.m.), or intrasternal
     injection, or infusion techniques.
                     The terms "patient," "subject," "individual," and the like are used
     interchangeably herein, and refer to any animal, or cells thereof whether in vitro or in
                                                         14

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
     situ, amenable to the methods described herein. In certain non-limiting embodiments,
     the patient, subject or individual is a human.
                      The term "simultaneous administration," as used herein, means that a
     first therapy and second therapy in a combination therapy are administered with a
  5  time separation of no more than about 15 minutes, such as no more than about any of
      10, 5, or 1 minutes. When the first and second therapies are administered
     simultaneously, the first and second therapies may be contained in the same
     composition (e.g., a composition comprising both a first and second therapy) or in
     separate compositions (e.g., a first therapy in one composition and a second therapy is
 10  contained in another composition).
                      The term "simultaneous administration," as used herein, means that a
     first therapy and second therapy in a combination therapy are administered with a
     time separation of no more than about 15 minutes, such as no more than about any of
      10, 5, or 1 minutes. When the first and second therapies are administered
 15  simultaneously, the first and second therapies may be contained in the same
     composition (e.g., a composition comprising both a first and second therapy) or in
     separate compositions (e.g., a first therapy in one composition and a second therapy is
     contained in another composition).
                      By the term "specifically binds," as used herein with respect to an
20   antibody, is meant an antibody which recognizes a specific antigen, but does not
     substantially recognize or bind other molecules in a sample. For example, an antibody
     that specifically binds to an antigen from one species may also bind to that antigen
     from one or more species. But, such cross-species reactivity does not itself alter the
     classification of an antibody as specific. In another example, an antibody that
25   specifically binds to an antigen may also bind to different allelic forms of the antigen.
     However, such cross reactivity does not itself alter the classification of an antibody as
     specific. In some instances, the terms "specific binding" or "specifically binding," can
     be used in reference to the interaction of an antibody, a protein, or a peptide with a
     second chemical species, to mean that the interaction is dependent upon the presence
30   of a particular structure (e.g., an antigenic determinant or epitope) on the chemical
     species; for example, an antibody recognizes and binds to a specific protein structure
     rather than to proteins generally. If an antibody is specific for epitope "A," the
     presence of a molecule containing epitope A (or free, unlabeled A), in a reaction
                                                        15

WO 2014/011984                                                               PCT/US2013/050267
     containing labeled "A" and the antibody, will reduce the amount of labeled A bound
     to the antibody.
                      By the term "stimulation," is meant a primary response induced by
     binding of a stimulatory molecule (e.g., a TCR/CD3 complex) with its cognate ligand
  5  thereby mediating a signal transduction event, such as, but not limited to, signal
     transduction via the TCR/CD3 complex. Stimulation can mediate altered expression
     of certain molecules, such as downregulation of TGF-p, and/or reorganization of
     cytoskeletal structures, and the like.
                      A "stimulatory molecule," as the term is used herein, means a
 10  molecule on a T cell that specifically binds with a cognate stimulatory ligand present
     on an antigen presenting cell.
                      A "stimulatory ligand," as used herein, means a ligand that when
     present on an antigen presenting cell (e.g., an aAPC, a dendritic cell, a B-cell, and the
     like) can specifically bind with a cognate binding partner (referred to herein as a
 15  "stimulatory molecule") on a T cell, thereby mediating a primary response by the T
     cell, including, but not limited to, activation, initiation of an immune response,
     proliferation, and the like. Stimulatory ligands are well-known in the art and
     encompass, inter alia, an MHC Class I molecule loaded with a peptide, an anti-CD3
     antibody, a superagonist anti-CD28 antibody, and a superagonist anti-CD2 antibody.
20                    The term "subject" is intended to include living organisms in which an
     immune response can be elicited (e.g., mammals). Examples of subjects include
     humans, dogs, cats, mice, rats, and transgenic species thereof.
                      As used herein, a "substantially purified" cell is a cell that is
     essentially free of other cell types. A substantially purified cell also refers to a cell
25   which has been separated from other cell types with which it is normally associated in
     its naturally occurring state. In some instances, a population of substantially purified
     cells refers to a homogenous population of cells. In other instances, this term refers
     simply to cell that have been separated from the cells with which they are naturally
     associated in their natural state. In some embodiments, the cells are cultured in vitro.
30   In other embodiments, the cells are not cultured in vitro.
                      The term "therapeutic" as used herein means a treatment and/or
     prophylaxis. A therapeutic effect is obtained by suppression, remission, or eradication
     of a disease state.
                                                         16

WO 2014/011984                                                                PCT/US2013/050267
                      The term "therapeutically effective amount" refers to the amount of the
     subject compound that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue,
     system, or subject that is being sought by the researcher, veterinarian, medical doctor
     or other clinician. The term "therapeutically effective amount" includes that amount
  5  of a compound that, when administered, is sufficient to prevent development of, or
     alleviate to some extent, one or more of the signs or symptoms of the disorder or
     disease being treated. The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the
     compound, the disease and its severity and the age, weight, etc., of the subject to be
     treated.
 10                   A "transplant," as used herein, refers to cells, tissue, or an organ that is
     introduced into an individual. The source of the transplanted material can be cultured
     cells, cells from another individual, or cells from the same individual (e.g., after the
     cells are cultured in vitro). Exemplary organ transplants are kidney, liver, heart, lung,
     and pancreas.
 15                   To "treat" a disease as the term is used herein, means to reduce the
     frequency or severity of at least one sign or symptom of a disease or disorder
     experienced by a subject.
                      The term "transfected" or "transformed" or "transduced" as used
     herein refers to a process by which exogenous nucleic acid is transferred or
20   introduced into the host cell. A "transfected" or "transformed" or "transduced" cell is
     one which has been transfected, transformed or transduced with exogenous nucleic
     acid. The cell includes the primary subject cell and its progeny.
                      Ranges: throughout this disclosure, various aspects of the invention
     can be presented in a range format. It should be understood that the description in
25   range format is merely for convenience and brevity and should not be construed as an
     inflexible limitation on the scope of the invention. Accordingly, the description of a
     range should be considered to have specifically disclosed all the possible subranges as
     well as individual numerical values within that range. For example, description of a
     range such as from 1 to 6 should be considered to have specifically disclosed
30   subranges such as from 1 to 3, from 1 to 4, from 1 to 5, from 2 to 4, from 2 to 6, from
     3 to 6 etc., as well as individual numbers within that range, for example, 1, 2, 2.7, 3,
     4, 5, 5.3, and 6. This applies regardless of the breadth of the range.
     Description
                                                        17

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
                      The present invention provides compositions and methods for treating
     cancer in a patient. In one embodiment, the treatment method comprises a first-line of
     therapy comprising administering the CAR of the invention into the patient to induce
     an anti-tumor immune response and monitoring the levels of soluble factors in the
  5  patient post T cell infusion to determine the type of second-line of therapy appropriate
     to treat the patient as a consequence of the first-line of therapy.
                      In one embodiment, the second-line of therapy comprises evaluating
     the profile of soluble factors in a patient following receipt of an infusion of the
     appropriate CAR T (referred elsewhere herein as "post T cell infusion") where when
 10  the soluble factor profile indicates an increase in a particular soluble factor post T cell
     infusion compared to pre T cell infusion, a skilled artisan can elect to administer to
     the patient in need of an effective amount of a soluble factor inhibitory compound in
     order to manage the elevated levels of the soluble factor post T cell infusion.
     Accordingly, the second-line of therapy in one embodiment includes administering a
 15  type of soluble factor inhibitory therapy to manage the elevated levels of certain
     soluble factor s resulting from the first-line of therapy of using CAR T cells.
                      In yet another embodiment, the second-line of therapy relating to
     administering a soluble factor inhibitory compound to the patient can be combined
     with other conventionally therapies used to treat, prevent or manage diseases or
20   disorders associated with, or characterized by, undesired angiogenesis. Examples of
     such conventional therapies include, but are not limited to, surgery, chemotherapy,
     radiation therapy, hormonal therapy, biological therapy and immunotherapy.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR of the invention can be engineered to
     comprise an extracellular domain having an antigen binding domain that targets tumor
25   antigen fused to an intracellular signaling domain of the T cell antigen receptor
     complex zeta chain (e.g., CD3 zeta). An exemplary tumor antigen B cell antigen is
     CD19 because this antigen is expressed on malignant B cells. However, the invention
     is not limited to targeting CD 19. Rather, the invention includes any tumor antigen
     binding moiety. The antigen binding moiety is preferably fused with an intracellular
30   domain from one or more of a costimulatory molecule and a zeta chain. Preferably,
     the antigen binding moiety is fused with one or more intracellular domains selected
     from the group of a CD137 (4-1BB) signaling domain, a CD28 signaling domain, a
     CD3zeta signal domain, and any combination thereof.
                                                         18

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
                      In one embodiment, the CAR of the invention comprises a CD137 (4
      1BB) signaling domain. This is because the present invention is partly based on the
     discovery that CAR-mediated T-cell responses can be further enhanced with the
     addition of costimulatory domains. For example, inclusion of the CD137 (4-1BB)
  5  signaling domain significantly increased CAR mediated activity and in vivo
     persistence of CAR T cells compared to an otherwise identical CAR T cell not
     engineered to express CD 137 (4-1BB). However, the invention is not limited to a
     specific CAR. Rather, any CAR that targets a tumor antigen can be used in the present
     invention. Compositions and methods of making and using CARs have been
 10  described in PCT/US1 1/64191, which is incorporated by reference in its entirety
     herein.
     Methods
                      The treatment regimen of the invention result in a measurable
 15  reduction in tumor size or evidence of disease or disease progression, complete
     response, partial response, stable disease, increase or elongation of progression free
     survival, increase or elongation of overall survival, or reduction in toxicity.
                      As part of the overall treatment regimen, the invention encompasses a
     first-line and a second-line therapy, wherein the first-line therapy comprises
20   administering a CAR T cell of the invention to the patient in need thereof. The
     treatment regimen of the invention allows for the management of the cancer and
     treatment thereof by evaluating the soluble factor profile in patients post T cell
     infusion. An appropriate second-line therapy comprises administering an appropriate
     soluble factor inhibitor to the patient in order to reduce the elevated levels of the
25   soluble factor resulting from the first-line therapy. In some instances, the appropriate
     second-line therapy comprises administering an appropriate soluble factor activator to
     the patient in order to increase the suppressed levels of the soluble factor resulting
     from the first-line therapy.
                      In one embodiment, an appropriate second-line therapy comprises
30   administering an appropriate cytokine inhibitor to the patient in order to reduce the
     elevated levels of the cytokine resulting from the first-line therapy. In some instances,
     the appropriate second-line therapy comprises administering an appropriate cytokine
     activator to the patient in order to increase the suppressed levels of the cytokine
     resulting from the first-line therapy.
                                                        19

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
                     In one embodiment, differential levels are over expression (high
     expression) or under expression (low expression) as compared to the expression level
     of a normal or control cell, a given patient population, or with an internal control. In
     some embodiments, levels are compared between the patient and a normal individual,
  5  between the patient post T cell infusion and pre T cell infusion, or between the patient
     post T cell infusion at a first time point and a second time point.
                     In one embodiment, the invention includes evaluating differential
     levels of one or more cytokines to generate a cytokine profile in a patient post T cell
     infusion in order to determine the type of cytokine therapy to be applied to the patient
 10  for the purpose of regulating the cytokine level back to normal levels. The invention
     may therefore be applied to identify cytokine levels elevated as a result of the
     presence of the CAR T cells of the invention in the patient, which allows the
     specialized treatment of the patient with cytokine inhibitors to decrease the elevated
     levels of the cytokine. In another embodiment, invention may be applied to identify
 15  cytokine levels decreased as a result of the presence of the CAR T cells of the
     invention in the patient, which allows the specialized treatment of the patient with
     cytokine activators to increase the diminished levels of the cytokine.
                     In one embodiment, cytokines levels that are elevated as a result of
     receiving a CAR T cell infusion include but are not limited to IL-1P, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5,
20   IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17, IL-iRa, IL-2R, IFN-ax, IFN-y, MIP-la,
     MIP-1p, MCP-1, TNFa, GM-CSF, G-CSF, CXCL9, CXCL1O, CXCR factors, VEGF,
     RANTES, EOTAXIN, EGF, HGF, FGF-p, CD40, CD40L, ferritin, and the like.
     However, the invention should not be limited to these listed cytokines. Rather, the
     invention includes any cytokine identified to be elevated in a patient as a result of
25   receiving a CAR T cell infusion.
                     In one embodiment, cytokines levels that are decreased as a result of
     receiving a CAR T cell infusion include but are not limited to IL-1P, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5,
     IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15, IL-17, IL-iRa, IL-2R, IFN-a, IFN-y, MIP-la,
     MIP-1p, MCP-i, TNFa, GM-CSF, G-CSF, CXCL9, CXCLIO, CXCR factors, VEGF,
30   RANTES, EOTAXIN, EGF, HGF, FGF-p, CD40, CD40L, ferritin, and the like.
     However, the invention should not be limited to these listed cytokines. Rather, the
     invention includes any cytokine identified to be decreased in a patient as a result of
     receiving a CAR T cell infusion.
                                                        20

WO 2014/011984                                                               PCT/US2013/050267
     Detecting a cytokine and treatment thereof
                      Although this section describes detection of a cytokine and treatment
     thereof as part of the second-line therapy, the invention encompasses detection of any
  5  soluble factor and treatment thereof as part of the second-line therapy. Therefore, the
     description in the context of a "cytokine" can equally be applied to a "soluble factor."
                      In one embodiment, as part of the second-line therapy, the invention
     includes methods of detecting levels of a cytokine in a patient that has received
     infusion of a CAR T cell of the invention. In some embodiments, the presence or level
 10  of a cytokine can be used to select a candidate treatment. In some other embodiments,
     the presence or levels of the cytokine can be used to determine the success during the
     course of or after treatment of the first-line, second-line, or both the first and second
     line of therapy.
                      Biological samples in which the cytokine can be detected include, for
 15  example, serum. In some embodiments, biological samples include a tissue biopsy
     which may or may not have a liquid component.
                      Immunoassays can be used to qualitatively or quantitatively analyze
     the cytokine levels in a biological sample. A general overview of the applicable
     technology can be found in a number of readily available manuals, e.g., Harlow &
20   Lane, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press, Using Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual
     (1999).
                      In addition to using immunoassays to detect the levels of cytokines in a
     biological sample from a patient, assessment of cytokine expression and levels can be
     made based on the level of gene expression of the particular cytokines. RNA
25   hybridization techniques for determining the presence and/or level of mRNA
     expression are well known to those of skill in the art and can be used to assess the
     presence or level of gene expression of the cytokine of interest.
                      In some embodiments, the methods of the present invention utilize
     selective binding partners of the cytokine to identify the presence or determine the
30   levels of the cytokine in a biological sample. The selective binding partner to be used
     with the methods and kits of the present invention can be, for instance, an antibody. In
     some aspects, monoclonal antibodies to the particular cytokine can be used. In some
     other aspects, polyclonal antibodies to the particular cytokine can be employed to
     practice the methods and in the kits of the present invention.
                                                        21

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
                      Commercial antibodies to the cytokine are available and can be used
     with the methods and kits of the present invention. It is well known to those of skill in
     the art that the type, source and other aspects of an antibody to be used is a
     consideration to be made in light of the assay in which the antibody is used. In some
  5  instances, antibodies that will recognize its antigen target on a Western blot might not
     applicable to an ELISA or ELISpot assay and vice versa.
                      In some embodiments, the antibodies to be used for the assays of the
     present invention can be produced using techniques for producing monoclonal or
     polyclonal antibodies that are well known in the art (see, e.g., Coligan, Current
 10  Protocols in Immunology (1991); Harlow & Lane, supra; Goding, Monoclonal
     Antibodies: Principles and Practice (2d ed. 1986); and Kohler & Milstein, Nature
     256:495-497 (1975). Such techniques include antibody preparation by selection of
     antibodies from libraries of recombinant antibodies in phage or similar vectors, as
     well as preparation of polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies by immunizing rabbits or
 15  mice (see, e.g., Huse et al., Science 246:1275-1281 (1989); Ward et al., Nature
     341:544-546 (1989)). Such antibodies can be used for therapeutic and diagnostic
     applications, e.g., in the treatment and/or detection of any of the specific cytokine
     associated diseases or conditions described herein.
                      Detection methods employing immunoassays are particularly suitable
20   for practice at the point of patient care. Such methods allow for immediate diagnosis
     and/or prognostic evaluation of the patient. Point of care diagnostic systems are
     described, e.g., in U.S. Pat. No. 6,267,722 which is incorporated herein by reference.
     Other immunoassay formats are also available such that an evaluation of the
     biological sample can be performed without having to send the sample to a laboratory
25   for evaluation. Typically these assays are formatted as solid assays where a reagent,
     e.g., an antibody is used to detect the cytokine. Exemplary test devices suitable for use
     with immunoassays such as assays of the present invention are described, for
     example, in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7,189,522; 6,818,455 and 6,656,745.
                      In some aspects, the present invention provides methods for detection
30   of polynucleotide sequences which code for the cytokine in a biological sample. As
     noted above, a "biological sample" refers to a cell or population of cells or a quantity
     of tissue or fluid from a patient. Most often, the sample has been removed from a
     patient, but the term "biological sample" can also refer to cells or tissue analyzed in
     vivo, i.e., without removal from the patient. Typically, a "biological sample" will
                                                       22

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
     contain cells from the patient, but the term can also refer to noncellular biological
     material.
                      In one embodiment, amplification-based assays are used to measure
     the level of a desired cytokine. In such an assay, nucleic acid sequences of the desired
  5  cytokine act as a template in an amplification reaction (e.g., Polymerase Chain
     Reaction, or PCR). In a quantitative amplification, the amount of amplification
     product will be proportional to the amount of template in the original sample.
     Comparison to appropriate controls provides a measure of the copy number of the
     cytokine associated gene. Methods of quantitative amplification are well known to
 10  those of skill in the art. Detailed protocols for quantitative PCR are provided, e.g., in
     Innis et al. (1990) PCR Protocols, A Guide to Methods and Applications, Academic
     Press, Inc. N.Y.). RT-PCR methods are well known to those of skill (see, e.g.,
     Ausubel et al., supra). In some embodiments, quantitative RT-PCR, e.g., a TaqManTM
     assay, is used, thereby allowing the comparison of the level of mRNA in a sample
 15  with a control sample or value. The known nucleic acid sequences for a desired
     cytokine are sufficient to enable one of skill to routinely select primers to amplify any
     portion of the gene. Suitable primers for amplification of specific sequences can be
     designed using principles well known in the art (see, e.g., Dieffenfach & Dveksler,
     PCR Primer: A Laboratory Manual (1995)).
20                    In some embodiments, hybridization based assays can be used to detect
     the amount of a desired cytokine in the cells of a biological sample. Such assays
     include dot blot analysis of RNA as well as other assays, e.g., fluorescent in situ
     hybridization, which is performed on samples that comprise cells. Other hybridization
     assays are readily available in the art.
25                    In numerous embodiments of the present invention, the level and/or
     presence of a cytokine polynucleotide or polypeptide will be detected in a biological
     sample, thereby detecting the differential expression of the cytokine to generate a
     cytokine profile from a biological sample derived from a patient infused with a CAR
     T cell of the invention compared to the control biological sample.
30                    The amount of a cytokine polynucleotide or polypeptide detected in the
     biological sample indicates the presence of a cytokine to generate a cytokine profile
     for the purpose of classifying the patient for the appropriate cytokine treatment. For
     example, when the cytokine profile indicates an increase in a particular cytokine post
     T cell infusion compared to control (e.g., pre T cell infusion), a skilled artisan can
                                                        23

WO 2014/011984                                                               PCT/US2013/050267
     elect to administer to the patient in need of such management an effective amount of a
     cytokine inhibitory compound. Alternatively, , when the cytokine profile indicates a
     decrease in a particular cytokine post T cell infusion compared to control (e.g., pre T
     cell infusion), a skilled artisan can elect to administer to the patient in need of such
  5  management an effective amount of a cytokine activator compound.
                     In some embodiments, the difference in cytokine levels between the
     post T cell infusion sample and the control sample and be at least about 0.5, 1.0, 1.5,
     2, 5, 10, 100, 200, 500, 1000 fold.
                     The present methods can also be used to assess the efficacy of a course
 10  of treatment. For example, in a post T cell infusion patient containing an elevated
     amount of a cytokine IL-6, the efficacy of an anti-IL-6 treatment can be assessed by
     monitoring, over time, IL-6. For example, a reduction in IL-6 polynucleotide or
     polypeptide levels in a biological sample taken from a patient following a treatment,
     compared to a level in a sample taken from the mammal before, or earlier in, the
 15  treatment, indicates efficacious treatment.
                     In one embodiment, a treatment regimen can be based on neutralizing
     the elevated cytokine. For example, antagonists of a cytokine can be selected for
     treatment. Antibodies are an example of a suitable antagonist and include mouse
     antibodies, chimeric antibodies, humanized antibodies, and human antibodies or
20   fragments thereof. Chimeric antibodies are antibodies whose light and heavy chain
     genes have been constructed, typically by genetic engineering, from immunoglobulin
     gene segments belonging to different species (see, e.g., Boyce et al., Annals of
     Oncology 14:520-535 (2003)). For example, the variable (V) segments of the genes
     from a mouse monoclonal antibody may be joined to human constant (C) segments. A
25   typical chimeric antibody is thus a hybrid protein consisting of the V or antigen
     binding domain from a mouse antibody and the C or effector regions from a human
     antibody.
                     Humanized antibodies have variable region framework residues
     substantially from a human antibody (termed an acceptor antibody) and
30   complementarity determining regions substantially from a mouse-antibody, (referred
     to as the donor immunoglobulin). See Queen et al., Proc. NatL. Acad. Sci. USA
     86:10029-10033 (1989) and WO 90/07861, U.S. Pat. No. 5,693,762, U.S. Pat. No.
     5,693,761, U.S. Pat. No. 5,585,089, U.S. Pat. No. 5,530,101 and Winter, U.S. Pat. No.
     5,225,539. The constant region(s), if present, are also substantially or entirely from a
                                                        24

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
     human immunoglobulin. Antibodies can be obtained by conventional hybridoma
     approaches, phage display (see, e.g., Dower et al., WO 91/17271 and McCafferty et
     al., WO 92/01047), use of transgenic mice with human immune systems (Lonberg et
     al., W093/12227 (1993)), among other sources. Nucleic acids encoding
  5  immunoglobulin chains can be obtained from hybridomas or cell lines producing
     antibodies, or based on immunoglobulin nucleic acid or amino acid sequences in the
     published literature.
                     Other antagonists of a desired cytokine can also be used for treatment
     purposes. For example, a class of antagonists that can be used for the purposes of the
 10  present invention, are the soluble forms of the receptors for the cytokine. By way of
     merely illustrative purposes, an IL-6 antagonist is an anti-IL-6 antibody that
     specifically binds to IL-6. A specific antibody has the ability to inhibit or antagonize
     the action of IL-6 systemically. In some embodiments, the antibody binds IL-6 and
     prevents it from interacting with or activating its receptors (e.g. IL-6Ra or IL-6Rp). In
 15  some embodiments, the activity of IL-6 can be antagonized by using an antagonist to
     the interleukin-6 receptors (IL-6R). U.S. Application number 2006251653 describes
     methods for treating interleukin-6 related disease and discloses a number of
     interleukin-6 antagonists including, for example, humanized anti-IL-6R antibodies
     and chimeric anti-IL-6R antibodies. In some embodiments, an IL-6 or IL-6R
20   derivative can be used to block and antagonize the interaction between IL-6/IL-6R.
                     The invention is not limited to the cytokines and their corresponding
     activators and inhibitors described herein. Rather, the invention includes the used of
     any cytokine activator and/or inhibitor that is used in the art to modulate the cytokine.
     This is because the invention is based on managing cancer treatment in a patient
25   receiving infusion of CAR T cells of the invention wherein the infused CAR T cells
     result in increase and decrease levels of various cytokines. One skilled in the art based
     on the disclosure presented herein that differential expression levels of a cytokine in a
     post T cell infusion sample compared to a control sample can be targeted for
     treatment for have the cytokine level be increased or decreased to normal levels.
30
     Therapeutic Application
                     The present invention encompasses a cell (e.g., T cell) transduced with
     a lentiviral vector (LV). For example, the LV encodes a CAR that combines an
     antigen recognition domain of a specific antibody with an intracellular domain of
                                                       25

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
     CD3-zeta, CD28, 4-1BB, or any combinations thereof. Therefore, in some instances,
     the transduced T cell can elicit a CAR-mediated T-cell response.
                      The invention provides the use of a CAR to redirect the specificity of a
     primary T cell to a tumor antigen. Thus, the present invention also provides a method
  5  for stimulating a T cell-mediated immune response to a target cell population or tissue
     in a mammal comprising the step of administering to the mammal a T cell that
     expresses a CAR, wherein the CAR comprises a binding moiety that specifically
     interacts with a predetermined target, a zeta chain portion comprising for example the
     intracellular domain of human CD3zeta, and a costimulatory signaling region.
 10                   In one embodiment, the present invention includes a type of cellular
     therapy where T cells are genetically modified to express a CAR and the CAR T cell
     is infused to a recipient in need thereof. The infused cell is able to kill tumor cells in
     the recipient. Unlike antibody therapies, CAR T cells are able to replicate in vivo
     resulting in long-term persistence that can lead to sustained tumor control.
 15                   In one embodiment, the CAR T cells of the invention can undergo
     robust in vivo T cell expansion and can persist for an extended amount of time. In
     another embodiment, the CAR T cells of the invention evolve into specific memory T
     cells that can be reactivated to inhibit any additional tumor formation or growth. For
     example, it was unexpected that the CART 19 cells of the invention can undergo
20   robust in vivo T cell expansion and persist at high levels for an extended amount of
     time in blood and bone marrow and form specific memory T cells. Without wishing to
     be bound by any particular theory, CAR T cells may differentiate in vivo into a central
     memory-like state upon encounter and subsequent elimination of target cells
     expressing the surrogate antigen.
25                    Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory, the anti-tumor
     immunity response elicited by the CAR-modified T cells may be an active or a
     passive immune response. In addition, the CAR mediated immune response may be
     part of an adoptive immunotherapy approach in which CAR-modified T cells induce
     an immune response specific to the antigen binding moiety in the CAR. For example,
30   a CART 19 cells elicits an immune response specific against cells expressing CD19.
                      While the data disclosed herein specifically disclose lentiviral vector
     comprising anti-CD19 scFv derived from FMC63 murine monoclonal antibody,
     human CD8a hinge and transmembrane domain, and human 4-1BB and CD3zeta
     signaling domains, the invention should be construed to include any number of
                                                       26

WO 2014/011984                                                            PCT/US2013/050267
     variations for each of the components of the construct as described elsewhere herein.
     That is, the invention includes the use of any antigen binding moiety in the CAR to
     generate a CAR-mediated T-cell response specific to the antigen binding moiety. For
     example, the antigen binding moiety in the CAR of the invention can target a tumor
  5  antigen for the purposes of treat cancer.
                     Cancers that may be treated include tumors that are not vascularized,
     or not yet substantially vascularized, as well as vascularized tumors. The cancers may
     comprise non-solid tumors (such as hematological tumors, for example, leukemias
     and lymphomas) or may comprise solid tumors. Types of cancers to be treated with
 10  the CARs of the invention include, but are not limited to, carcinoma, blastoma, and
     sarcoma, and certain leukemia or lymphoid malignancies, benign and malignant
     tumors, and malignancies e.g., sarcomas, carcinomas, and melanomas. Adult
     tumors/cancers and pediatric tumors/cancers are also included.
                     Hematologic cancers are cancers of the blood or bone marrow.
 15  Examples of hematological (or hematogenous) cancers include leukemias, including
     acute leukemias (such as acute lymphocytic leukemia, acute myelocytic leukemia,
     acute myelogenous leukemia and myeloblastic, promyelocytic, myelomonocytic,
     monocytic and erythroleukemia), chronic leukemias (such as chronic myelocytic
     (granulocytic) leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, and chronic lymphocytic
20   leukemia), polycythemia vera, lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's
     lymphoma (indolent and high grade forms), multiple myeloma, Waldenstrom's
     macroglobulinemia, heavy chain disease, myelodysplastic syndrome, hairy cell
     leukemia and myelodysplasia.
                     Solid tumors are abnormal masses of tissue that usually do not contain
25   cysts or liquid areas. Solid tumors can be benign or malignant. Different types of solid
     tumors are named for the type of cells that form them (such as sarcomas, carcinomas,
     and lymphomas). Examples of solid tumors, such as sarcomas and carcinomas,
     include fibrosarcoma, myxosarcoma, liposarcoma, chondrosarcoma, osteosarcoma,
     and other sarcomas, synovioma, mesothelioma, Ewing's tumor, leiomyosarcoma,
30   rhabdomyosarcoma, colon carcinoma, lymphoid malignancy, pancreatic cancer,
     breast cancer, lung cancers, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma,
     squamous cell carcinoma, basal cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sweat gland
     carcinoma, medullary thyroid carcinoma, papillary thyroid carcinoma,
     pheochromocytomas sebaceous gland carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, papillary
                                                       27

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
     adenocarcinomas, medullary carcinoma, bronchogenic carcinoma, renal cell
     carcinoma, hepatoma, bile duct carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, Wilms' tumor, cervical
     cancer, testicular tumor, seminoma, bladder carcinoma, melanoma, and CNS tumors
     (such as a glioma (such as brainstem glioma and mixed gliomas), glioblastoma (also
  5  known as glioblastoma multiforme) astrocytoma, CNS lymphoma, germinoma,
     medulloblastoma, Schwannoma craniopharyogioma, ependymoma, pinealoma,
     hemangioblastoma, acoustic neuroma, oligodendroglioma, menangioma,
     neuroblastoma, retinoblastoma and brain metastases).
                      In one embodiment, the antigen bind moiety portion of the CAR of the
 10  invention is designed to treat a particular cancer. For example, the CAR designed to
     target CD19 can be used to treat cancers and disorders including but are not limited to
     pre-B ALL (pediatric indication), adult ALL, mantle cell lymphoma, diffuse large B
     cell lymphoma, salvage post allogenic bone marrow transplantation, and the like.
                      In another embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target CD22 to
 15  treat diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.
                      In one embodiment, cancers and disorders include but are not limited
     to pre-B ALL (pediatric indication), adult ALL, mantle cell lymphoma, diffuse large
     B-cell lymphoma, salvage post allogenic bone marrow transplantation, and the like
     can be treated using a combination of CARs that target CD 19, CD20, CD22, and
20   RORI.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target mesothelin to
     treat mesothelioma, pancreatic cancer, ovarian cancer, and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target CD33/IL3Ra to
     treat acute myelogenous leukemia and the like.
25                    In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target c-Met to treat
     triple negative breast cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target PSMA to treat
     prostate cancer and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target Glycolipid F77
30   to treat prostate cancer and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target EGFRvIII to
     treat gliobastoma and the like.
                      In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target GD-2 to treat
     neuroblastoma, melanoma, and the like.
                                                       28

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
                     In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target NY-ESO- 1
     TCR to treat myeloma, sarcoma, melanoma, and the like.
                     In one embodiment, the CAR can be designed to target MAGE A3
     TCR to treat myeloma, sarcoma, melanoma, and the like.
  5                  However, the invention should not be construed to be limited to solely
     to the antigen targets and diseases disclosed herein. Rather, the invention should be
     construed to include any antigenic target that is associated with a disease where a
     CAR can be used to treat the disease.
                     The CAR-modified T cells of the invention may also serve as a type of
 10  vaccine for ex vivo immunization and/or in vivo therapy in a mammal. Preferably, the
     mammal is a human.
                     With respect to ex vivo immunization, at least one of the following
     occurs in vitro prior to administering the cell into a mammal: i) expansion of the cells,
     ii) introducing a nucleic acid encoding a CAR to the cells, and/or iii) cryopreservation
 15  of the cells.
                     Ex vivo procedures are well known in the art and are discussed more
     fully below. Briefly, cells are isolated from a mammal (preferably a human) and
     genetically modified (i.e., transduced or transfected in vitro) with a vector expressing
     a CAR disclosed herein. The CAR-modified cell can be administered to a mammalian
20   recipient to provide a therapeutic benefit. The mammalian recipient may be a human
     and the CAR-modified cell can be autologous with respect to the recipient.
     Alternatively, the cells can be allogeneic, syngeneic or xenogeneic with respect to the
     recipient.
                     The procedure for ex vivo expansion of hematopoietic stem and
25   progenitor cells is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5,199,942, incorporated herein by
     reference, can be applied to the cells of the present invention. Other suitable methods
     are known in the art, therefore the present invention is not limited to any particular
     method of ex vivo expansion of the cells. Briefly, ex vivo culture and expansion of T
     cells comprises: (1) collecting CD34+ hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells from a
30   mammal from peripheral blood harvest or bone marrow explants; and (2) expanding
     such cells ex vivo. In addition to the cellular growth factors described in U.S. Pat. No.
     5,199,942, other factors such as flt3-L, IL-1, IL-3 and c-kit ligand, can be used for
     culturing and expansion of the cells.
                                                        29

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
                      In addition to using a cell-based vaccine in terms of ex vivo
     immunization, the present invention also provides compositions and methods for in
     vivo immunization to elicit an immune response directed against an antigen in a
     patient.
  5                   Generally, the cells activated and expanded as described herein may be
     utilized in the treatment and prevention of diseases that arise in individuals who are
     immunocompromised. In particular, the CAR-modified T cells of the invention are
     used in the treatment of CCL. In certain embodiments, the cells of the invention are
     used in the treatment of patients at risk for developing CCL. Thus, the present
 10  invention provides methods for the treatment or prevention of CCL comprising
     administering to a subject in need thereof, a therapeutically effective amount of the
     CAR-modified T cells of the invention.
                      The CAR-modified T cells of the present invention may be
     administered either alone, or as a pharmaceutical composition in combination with
 15  diluents and/or with other components such as IL-2 or other cytokines or cell
     populations. Briefly, pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may
     comprise a target cell population as described herein, in combination with one or
     more pharmaceutically or physiologically acceptable carriers, diluents or excipients.
     Such compositions may comprise buffers such as neutral buffered saline, phosphate
20   buffered saline and the like; carbohydrates such as glucose, mannose, sucrose or
     dextrans, mannitol; proteins; polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine;
     antioxidants; chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione; adjuvants (e.g.,
     aluminum hydroxide); and preservatives. Compositions of the present invention are
     preferably formulated for intravenous administration.
25                    Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be
     administered in a manner appropriate to the disease to be treated (or prevented). The
     quantity and frequency of administration will be determined by such factors as the
     condition of the patient, and the type and severity of the patient's disease, although
     appropriate dosages may be determined by clinical trials.
30                    When "an immunologically effective amount", "an anti-tumor
     effective amount", "an tumor-inhibiting effective amount", or "therapeutic amount" is
     indicated, the precise amount of the compositions of the present invention to be
     administered can be determined by a physician with consideration of individual
     differences in age, weight, tumor size, extent of infection or metastasis, and condition
                                                        30

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
     of the patient (subject). It can generally be stated that a pharmaceutical composition
     comprising the T cells described herein may be administered at a dosage of 104 to 109
     cells/kg body weight, preferably 105 to 106 cells/kg body weight, including all integer
     values within those ranges. T cell compositions may also be administered multiple
  5  times at these dosages. The cells can be administered by using infusion techniques
     that are commonly known in immunotherapy (see, e.g., Rosenberg et al., New Eng. J.
     of Med. 319:1676, 1988). The optimal dosage and treatment regime for a particular
     patient can readily be determined by one skilled in the art of medicine by monitoring
     the patient for signs of disease and adjusting the treatment accordingly.
 10                  In certain embodiments, it may be desired to administer activated T
     cells to a subject and then subsequently redraw blood (or have an apheresis
     performed), activate T cells therefrom according to the present invention, and reinfuse
     the patient with these activated and expanded T cells. This process can be carried out
     multiple times every few weeks. In certain embodiments, T cells can be activated
 15  from blood draws of from 10cc to 400cc. In certain embodiments, T cells are
     activated from blood draws of 20cc, 30cc, 40cc, 50cc, 60cc, 70cc, 80cc, 90cc, or
      100cc. Not to be bound by theory, using this multiple blood draw/multiple reinfusion
     protocol may serve to select out certain populations of T cells.
                     The administration of the subject compositions may be carried out in
20   any convenient manner, including by aerosol inhalation, injection, ingestion,
     transfusion, implantation or transplantation. The compositions described herein may
     be administered to a patient subcutaneously, intradermally, intratumorally,
     intranodally, intramedullary, intramuscularly, by intravenous (i.v.) injection, or
     intraperitoneally. In one embodiment, the T cell compositions of the present invention
25   are administered to a patient by intradermal or subcutaneous injection. In another
     embodiment, the T cell compositions of the present invention are preferably
     administered by i.v. injection. The compositions of T cells may be injected directly
     into a tumor, lymph node, or site of infection.
                     In certain embodiments of the present invention, cells activated and
30   expanded using the methods described herein, or other methods known in the art
     where T cells are expanded to therapeutic levels, are administered to a patient in
     conjunction with (e.g., before, simultaneously or following) any number of relevant
     treatment modalities, including but not limited to treatment with agents such as
     antiviral therapy, cidofovir and interleukin-2, Cytarabine (also known as ARA-C) or
                                                        31

WO 2014/011984                                                            PCT/US2013/050267
     natalizumab treatment for MS patients or efalizumab treatment for psoriasis patients
     or other treatments for PML patients. In further embodiments, the T cells of the
     invention may be used in combination with chemotherapy, radiation,
     immunosuppressive agents, such as cyclosporin, azathioprine, methotrexate,
  5  mycophenolate, and FK506, antibodies, or other immunoablative agents such as CAM
     PATH, anti-CD3 antibodies or other antibody therapies, cytoxin, fludaribine,
     cyclosporin, FK506, rapamycin, mycophenolic acid, steroids, FR901228, cytokines,
     and irradiation. These drugs inhibit either the calcium dependent phosphatase
     calcineurin (cyclosporine and FK506) or inhibit the p70S6 kinase that is important for
 10  growth factor induced signaling (rapamycin) (Liu et al., Cell 66:807-815, 1991;
     Henderson et al., Immun. 73:316-321, 1991; Bierer et al., Curr. Opin. Immun. 5:763
     773, 1993). In a further embodiment, the cell compositions of the present invention
     are administered to a patient in conjunction with (e.g., before, simultaneously or
     following) bone marrow transplantation, T cell ablative therapy using either
 15  chemotherapy agents such as, fludarabine, external-beam radiation therapy (XRT),
     cyclophosphamide, or antibodies such as OKT3 or CAMPATH. In another
     embodiment, the cell compositions of the present invention are administered
     following B-cell ablative therapy such as agents that react with CD20, e.g., Rituxan.
     For example, in one embodiment, subjects may undergo standard treatment with high
20   dose chemotherapy followed by peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. In certain
     embodiments, following the transplant, subjects receive an infusion of the expanded
     immune cells of the present invention. In an additional embodiment, expanded cells
     are administered before or following surgery.
                     The dosage of the above treatments to be administered to a patient will
25   vary with the precise nature of the condition being treated and the recipient of the
     treatment. The scaling of dosages for human administration can be performed
     according to art-accepted practices. The dose for CAMPATH, for example, will
     generally be in the range I to about 100 mg for an adult patient, usually administered
     daily for a period between 1 and 30 days. The preferred daily dose is 1 to 10 mg per
30   day although in some instances larger doses of up to 40 mg per day may be used
     (described in U.S. Patent No. 6,120,766).
     Treatment of Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS)
                                                       32

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
                     The invention is based partly on the discovery that in vivo proliferation
     of CART 19 cells and the potent anti-tumor activity associated therewith is also
     associated with with CRS, leading to hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH),
     also termed Macrophage Activation Syndrome (MAS). Without wishing to be bound
  5  by any particular theory, it is believed that that MAS/HLH is a unique biomarker that
     is associated with and may be required for CART 19 potent anti-tumor activity.
                     Accordingly, the invention provides a first-line of therapy comprising
     administering the CAR of the invention into the patient and a second-line of therapy
     comprising administering a type of therapy to manage the elevated levels of certain
 10  soluble factors resulting from the first-line of therapy of using CAR T cells.
                     In one embodiment, the second-line of therapy comprises compositions
     and methods for the treatment of CRS. Symptoms of CRS include high fevers, nausea,
     transient hypotension, hypoxia, and the like. The present invention is based on the
     observation that CART 19 cells induced elevated levels of soluble factors in the
 15  patient including but is not limited to IFN-y, TNFa, IL-2 and IL-6. Therefore, the
     second-line of therapy comprises compounds and methods for neutralizing the effects
     against the elevated cytokines resulting from the administration of the CART 19 cells.
     In one embodiment, the neutralizing agents are capable of counteracting undesired
     concerted burst of cytokine expression/activity and, thus, are useful for the
20   prevention, amelioration and treatment of CRS associated with CART 19 therapy.
                     In one embodiment, the treatment of CRS is performed around day 10
      12 post-infusion of CART19 cells.
                     In one embodiment, the second-line of therapy comprises
     administering a steroid to the patient. In another embodiment, the second-line of
25   therapy comprises administering one of more of a steroid, an inhibitor of TNFa, and
     an inhibitor of IL-6. An example of a TNFa inhibitor is entanercept. An example of
     an IL-6 inhibitor is Tocilizumab (toc).
                                 EXPERIMENTAL EXAMPLES
30                   The invention is further described in detail by reference to the
     following experimental examples. These examples are provided for purposes of
     illustration only, and are not intended to be limiting unless otherwise specified. Thus,
     the invention should in no way be construed as being limited to the following
                                                        33

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
     examples, but rather, should be construed to encompass any and all variations which
     become evident as a result of the teaching provided herein.
                      Without further description, it is believed that one of ordinary skill in
     the art can, using the preceding description and the following illustrative examples,
  5  make and utilize the compounds of the present invention and practice the claimed
     methods. The following working examples therefore, specifically point out the
     preferred embodiments of the present invention, and are not to be construed as
     limiting in any way the remainder of the disclosure.
 10  Example 1: Cytokine therapy in combination with CAR T cell infusion
                      The results presented herein demonstrate that patients following
     infusion of CAR T cells exhibit differential expression levels of various cytokines. In
     some instances, the elevated levels of some cytokines are a result of the toxicity of the
     infused CAR T cells (Figure 1). It was observed that tocilizumab (anti-IL6) can
 15  ameliorate the toxicity of CARs and seemingly preserve antitumor effects in 2 of 2
     patients (Figure 2). Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is
     believed that anakinra and other reagents that block IL-I may also be useful in this
     regard. The data presented herein also demonstrates that IL-I is elevated in patients,
     and this may lead to the later rise in IL-6. Anakinra is an IL-iRa recombinant protein
20   which binds to the IL1 receptors and blocks both IL-I alpha and beta signaling.
     Anakinra has a short 1/2 life. There is an advantage to use Anakinra to start treating
     patients since both IL-I alpha and beta would be blocked, and also relieve the
     cytokine storm and keep the anti-tumor effect.
                      It was also observed that antibody interventions did not impart
25   CART 19 cellular functionality as measured by Perforin and IFN-y (Figure 3).
     Example 2: CD 19-Redirected Chimeric Antigen Receptor T (CART 19) Cells Induce a
     Cytokine Release Syndrome (CRS) and Induction of Treatable Macrophage
     Activation Syndrome (MAS) That Can Be Managed by the IL-6 Antagonist
30   Tocilizumab (toc)
                      Infusion of CART19 cells results in 100 to 100,000x in vivo
     proliferation, tumor lysis syndrome followed by durable antitumor activity, and
     prolonged persistence in patients with B cell tumors. The results presented herein
                                                        34

WO 2014/011984                                                            PCT/US2013/050267
     demonstrate that in vivo proliferation of CART 19 cells and potent anti-tumor activity
     therefrom is associated with CRS, leading to hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis
     (HLH), also termed MAS. Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory, it is
     believed that MAS/HLH is a unique biomarker that is associated with and may be
  5  required for potent anti-tumor activity.
                      Autologous T cells were lentivirally transduced with a CAR composed
     of anti-CD19 scFv/4-1BB/CD3 -zeta, activated/expanded ex-vivo with anti-CD3/anti
     CD28 beads, and then infused into ALL or CLL patients with persistent disease after
     2-8 prior treatments. CART 19 anti ALL activity was also modeled in a xenograft
 10  mouse model with high level of human ALL/human T cell engraftment and
     simultaneous detection of CAR T cells and ALL using 2-color bioluminescent
     imaging.
                      The results presented herein provides updated results of 10 patients
     who received CART 19 cells, including 9 patients with CLL and 1 pediatric patient
 15  with relapsed refractory ALL. 6/9 evaluable patient s had a complete recovery (CR) or
     partial recovery (PR), including 4 sustained CRs. While there was no acute infusional
     toxicity, all responding patients also developed CRS. All had high fevers, as well as
     grade 3 or 4 hypotension/hypoxia. CRS preceded peak blood expression of CART 19
     cells, and then increased in intensity until the CART 19 cell peak (D10-31 after
20   infusion). The ALL patient experienced the most significant toxicity, with grade 4
     hypotension and respiratory failure. Steroid therapy on D6 resulted in no
     improvement. On D9, noting high levels of TNFa. and IL-6 (peak increases above
     baseline: IFNy at 6040x; IL-6 at 988x; IL-2R at 56x, IL-2 at 163x and TNFa at 17x),
     TNFa and IL-6 antagonists (entanercept and toc) were administered. This resulted in
25   resolution of fever and hypotension within 12hr and a rapid wean from ventilator
     support to room air. These interventions had no apparent impact on CART 19 cell
     expansion or efficacy: peak of CAR T cells (2539 CAR+ cells/uL; 77% of CD3 cells
     by flow) occurred on D1I, and D23 bone marrow showed CR with negative minimal
     residual disease (MRD), compared to her initial on-study marrow which showed 65%
30   blasts. Although she had no history of CNS ALL, spinal fluid showed detectable
     CART19 cells (21 lymphs/mcL; 78% CAR+). At 4mo post infusion, this patient
     remained in CR, with 17 CART 19 cells/uL in the blood and 310% CAR+ CD3 cells in
     the marrow.
                                                       35

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
                      Clinical assessment of subsequent responding patients shows all had
     evidence of MAS/HLH including dramatic elevations of ferritin and histologic
     evidence of HLH. Peak ferritin levels range from 44,000 to 605,000, preceding and
     continuing with peak T cell proliferation. Other consistent findings include rapid
  5  onset hepatosplenomegaly unrelated to disease and moderate DIC.
                      Subsequently, 3 CLL patients have also been treated with toc, also
     with prompt and striking resolution of high fevers, hypotension and hypoxia. One
     patient received toc on D10 and achieved a CR accompanied by CART 19 expansion.
     Another patient had rapid resolution of CRS following toc administration on day 9
 10  and follow up for response is too short. A 3rd CLL patient received toc on D3 for
     early fevers and had no CART-19 proliferation and no response.
                      To model the timing of cytokine blockade, xenografts using
     bioluminescent primary pediatric ALL were established and then treated with extra
     cells from the clinical manufacture. The CART 19 cells proliferated and resulted in
 15  prolonged survival. Cytokine blockade prior to T cell infusion with toc and/or
     etanercept abrogated disease control with less in vivo proliferation of infused
     CART 19 cells, confirming the result seen in the one patient given early toc (D3).
                      CART 19 T cells can produce massive in-vivo expansion, long-term
     persistence, and anti-tumor efficacy, but can also induce significant CRS with features
20   suggestive of MAS/HLH that responds rapidly to cytokine blockade. Given prior to
     initiation of significant CART 19 proliferation, blockade of TNFa and/or IL-6 may
     interfere with proliferation and effector function, but if given at a point where cell
     proliferation is underway, toc may ameliorate the symptoms that have been observed
     that correlate with robust clinical responses.
25
     Example 3 Remission of ALL by Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Expressing T Cells:
                      The results presented herein demonstrate that CAR T cells have
     clinical activity in acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL). Briefly, two pediatric patients
     with relapsed and refractory pre-B cell ALL were treated with 106 to 107 /kg T cell
30   transduced with anti-CD 19 antibody and a T-cell signaling molecule (CTLO19 CAR T
     cells; also referred to as CART 19). The CTLO19 T cells expanded more than 1000
     fold in both patients, and trafficked to bone marrow. In addition, the CAR T cells
     were able to cross the blood brain barrier and persisted at high levels for at least 6
     months, as measured in the cerebral spinal fluid. Eight severe adverse events were
                                                       36

WO 2014/011984                                                            PCT/US2013/050267
     noted. Both patients developed a cytokine release syndrome (CRS) and B cell aplasia.
     In one child, the CRS was severe and cytokine blockade with etanercept and
     tocilizumab was effective in reversing the syndrome, and yet did not prevent CAR T
     cell expansion and anti-leukemic efficacy. Complete remission was observed in both
  5  patients, and is ongoing in one patient at 9 months after treatment. The other patient
     relapsed with blast cells that no longer express CD19 approximately 2 months after
     treatment.
                     The results presented herein demonstrate that CAR modified T cells
     are capable of killing even aggressive treatment refractory acute leukemia cells in
 10  vivo. The emergence of tumor cells that no longer express the target indicates a need
     to target other molecules in addition to CD19 in some patients with ALL.
                     The in vivo expansion and robust anti-leukemic effects of CTLO19
     (CART 19) cells in 3 patients with CLL as been reported (Porter et al., 2011, N Engl J
     Med 365:725-33; Kalos et al., 2011, Science Translational Medicine 3:95ra73).
 15  CTLO19 is a CAR that includes a CD137 (4-1BB) signaling domain and is expressed
     using lentiviral vector technology (Milone et al., 1009, Mol Ther 17:1453-64). The
     results presented herein demonstrate the use of CTLO19 in 2 pediatric patients with
     refractory and relapsed ALL. Both patients had remission of leukemia, accompanied
     by robust expansion of CTLO19 in vivo with trafficking to marrow and the CNS. The
20   anti-leukemic effects were potent since one patient had chemotherapy refractory
     disease precluding allogeneic donor stem cell transplantation and the other patient
     relapsed after allogeneic cord blood transplantation and was resistant to
     blinatumomab (chimeric bispecific anti-CD3 and anti-CD19) therapy.
25                   The materials and methods employed in these experiments are now
     described.
     Materials and Methods
                     CART19
30                   CTLO19 (CART 19) production has been previously reported (Porter et
     al., 2011, N Engl J Med 365:725-33; Kalos et al., 2011, Science Translational
     Medicine 3:95ra73). CTLO19 was detected and quantified in patient specimens as
     previously reported (Porter et al., 2011, N Engl J Med 365:725-33; Kalos et al., 2011,
     Science Translational Medicine 3:95ra73).
                                                      37

WO 2014/011984                                                            PCT/US2013/050267
                     Sample draws and processing
                     Samples (peripheral blood, bone marrow) were collected in lavender
     top (K2EDTA,) or red top (no additive) vacutainer tubes (Becton Dickinson).
  5  Lavender top tubes were delivered to the laboratory within 2 hours of draw, or
     shipped overnight at room temperature in insulated containers essentially as described
     (Olson et al., 2011, J Transl Med 9:26) prior to processing. Samples were processed
     within 30 minutes of receipt according to established laboratory SOP. Peripheral
     blood and marrow mononuclear cells were purified, processed, and stored in liquid
 10  nitrogen as described (Kalos et al., 2011, Science Translational Medicine 3:95ra73).
     Red top tubes were processed within 2 hours of draw including coagulation time;
     serum isolated by centrifugation, aliquoted in single use 100 pL aliquots and stored at
     -80' C. CSF was delivered to the laboratory within 30 minutes of aspiration and cells
     in CSF were collected by centrifugation of CSF fluid and processed for DNA and
 15  flow cytometry.
                     Q-PCR analysis
                     Whole-blood or marrow samples were collected in lavender top
     (K2EDTA) BD vacutainer tubes (Becton Dickinson). Genomic DNA was isolated
20   directly from whole-blood and Q-PCR analysis on genomic DNA samples was
     performed in bulk using ABI Taqman technology and a validated assay to detect the
     integrated CD19 CAR transgene sequence as described (Kalos et al., 2011, Science
     Translational Medicine 3:95ra73) using 200 ng genomic DNA per time-point for
     peripheral blood and marrow samples, and 18-21.7 ng genomic DNA per time-point
25   for CSF samples. To determine copy number per unit DNA, an 8-point standard curve
     was generated consisting of 5 to 106 copies CTLO19 lentivirus plasmid spiked into
      100 ng non-transduced control genomic DNA. Each data-point (sample, standard
     curve) was evaluated in triplicate with a positive Ct value in 3/3 replicates with % CV
     less than 0.95% for all quantifiable values. A parallel amplification reaction to control
30   for the quality of interrogated DNA was performed using 20 ng input genomic DNA
     from peripheral blood and marrow (2-4.3 ng for CSF samples), and a primer/probe
     combination specific for non-transcribed genomic sequence upstream of the
     CDKNlA gene as described (Kalos et al., 2011, Science Translational Medicine
     3:95ra73). These amplification reactions generated a correction factor (CF) to correct
                                                      38

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
     for calculated versus actual DNA input. Copies of transgene per microgram DNA
     were calculated according to the formula: copies calculated from CTLO 19 standard
     curve per input DNA (ng) x CF x 1000 ng. Accuracy of this assay was determined by
     the ability to quantify marking of the infused cell product by Q-PCR. These blinded
  5  determinations generated Q-PCR and flow marking values of 11.1% and 11.6%,
     respectively, for the CHOP-100 and 20.0% and 14.4%, respectively, marking for the
     CHOP-101 infusion products.
                      Soluble factor analysis
 10                   Whole blood was collected in red top (no additive) BD vacutainer
     tubes (Becton Dickinson), processed to obtain serum using established laboratory
     SOP, aliquoted for single use and stored at -80'C. Quantification of soluble cytokine
     factors was performed using Luminex bead array technology and kits purchased from
     Life technologies (Invitrogen). Assays were performed as per the manufacturer
 15  protocol with a 9 point standard curve generated using a 3-fold dilution series. The 2
     external standard points were evaluated in duplicate and the 5 internal standards in
     singlicate; all samples were evaluated in duplicate at 1:2 dilution; calculated % CV
     for the duplicate measures were less than 15%. Data were acquired on a FlexMAP-3D
     by percent and analyzed using XPonent 4.0 software and 5-parameter logistic
20   regression analysis. Standard curve quantification ranges were determined by the 80
      120% (observed/expected value) range. Reported values included those within the
     standard curve range and those calculated by the logistic regression analysis.
                      Antibody reagents
25                    The following antibodies were used for these studies: MDA-CAR
     (Jena and Cooper, 2013, L. Anti-idiotype antibody for CD19. PlosONE 2013; in
     press), a murine antibody to CD19 CAR conjugated to Alexa647. Antibodies for
     multi-parametric immunophenotyping: T cell detection panels: anti-CD3-FITC, anti
     CD8-PE, anti-CD 14-PE-Cy7, anti-CD 16-PE-Cy7, anti-CD 19-PE-Cy7 anti-CD 16-PE
30   Cy7. B cell detection panels: anti- CD20-FITC, anti-CD45-PE, anti-CD45-APC, anti
     CD 19-PE-Cy7, anti-CD 19-PE, anti-CD34-PCP-e7 10 and anti CD34-APC were
     procured from e-Biosciences.
                      Multi-parameter flow cytometry
                                                      39

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
                     Cells were evaluated by flow cytometry directly after Ficoll-Paque
     processing, with the exception of the CHOP-101 baseline sample which was
     evaluated immediately after thaw of a cryopreserved sample. Multi-parametric
     immunophenotyping for peripheral blood and marrow samples was performed using
  5  approximately 0.2-0.5   x10 6 total cells per condition (depending on cell yield in
     samples), and for CSF samples using trace amounts of cells collected following
     centrifugation of CSF fluid, and using fluorescence minus one (FMO) stains as
     described in the text. Cells were stained in 100 pL PBS for 30 minutes on ice using
     antibody and reagent concentrations recommended by the manufacturer, washed, and
 10  resuspended in 0.5% paraformaldehyde and acquired using an Accuri C6 cytometer
     equipped with a Blue (488) and Red (633 nm) laser. Accuri files were exported in
     FCS file format and analyzed using FlowJo software (Version 9.5.3, Treestar).
     Compensation values were established using single antibody stains and BD
     compensation beads (Becton Dickinson) and were calculated by the software. The
 15  gating strategy for T cells was as follows: Live cells (FSC/SSC) > dump channel
     (CD14+CD16+CD19-PECy7) vs CD3+ > CD3+. The general gating strategy for B
     cells was as follows: Live cells (FSC/SSC) > SSC low events > CD 19+. More gating
     details for the CHOP-100 and CHOP-101 samples are described in the individual
     Figures.
20
                     Molecular MRD analysis
                     Molecular MRD analysis was performed by Adaptive Biotechnologies
     (Seattle, WA) and high-throughput next-generation sequencing of the BCR IGH
     CDR3 region using the Illumina HiSeq/MiSeq platform-based immunoSEQ assay
25   (Larimore et al., 2012, J Immunol 189:3221-30). For these analyses, 701-6,000 ng
     (approximately 111,000- 950,000 genome equivalents) of genomic DNA isolated
     from whole blood or marrow samples obtained from patients were subjected to
     combined multiplex PCR and sequencing followed by algorithmic analyses to
     quantify individual IGH CDR3 sequences in samples. Parallel amplifications and
30   sequencing of the TCRB CDR3 region (Robins et al., 2009, Blood 114:4099-107) in
     each sample were done to assess quality of DNA samples. For each patient, the IGH
     CDR3 nucleotide sequences assayed from samples of different time points were
     aligned using EMBL-EBI multiple sequence alignment tool (Goujon et al., 2010,
     Nucleic Acids Res 38:W695-9; Sievers et al., 2011, Mol Syst Biol 7:539). The
                                                        40

WO 2014/011984                                                            PCT/US2013/050267
     dominant clone from the earliest time-point sample was bioinformatically tracked
     across the assayed IGH CDR3 sequences in the following time-point samples to
     identify presence of sequences with 95% or greater pair-wise sequence identity. The
     total sequencing reads for those sequences similar to the dominant clone are reported
  5  for each time-point.
                     The results of the experiments are now described.
     Case reports
 10                  CHOP-100 was a 7yo girl in her second recurrence of ALL. She was
     diagnosed 2 years prior and achieved a minimal residual disease (MRD) negative
     remission, relapsing 17 months after diagnosis. She re-entered remission after
     reinduction chemotherapy but recurred 4 months later, after which she did not
     respond to furtheclofaribine/etoposide/cyclophosphamide. Her karyotype at baseline
 15  was 48,XX,del(9)(p21.3),+ 11,del(14)(q2?q24),+16/46,XX[4]. Peripheral blood
     mononuclear cells (PBMC) were collected by apheresis before the intensive
     chemotherapy, anticipating that there may be insufficient circulating T cells available
     for cell manufacturing after such intensive treatment. This patient was infused with
     CTLO19 cells that had been anti-CD3/CD28 expanded and lentivirally transduced to
20   express the anti-CD19 CAR in a total dose of 3.8x10 8 cells/kg (1.2x10 7 CTLO19
     cells/kg) given over 3 consecutive days as previously described (Porter et al., 2011, N
     Engl J Med 365:725-33; Kalos et al., 2011, Science Translational Medicine 3:95ra73).
     She did not receive lymphodepleting chemotherapy before her CTLO19 infusions,
     with the most recent cytotoxic therapy given 6 weeks before CTLO19 infusion. No
25   immediate infusional toxicities were noted, but she was hospitalized for low-grade
     fevers which progressed to high fevers by day 4, and on day 5 the patient was
     transferred to the pediatric ICU (CHOP-100, Figure 4A). This was followed by rapid
     progression to significant respiratory and cardiovascular compromise requiring
     mechanical ventilation and blood pressure support.
30                   The second ALL patient was a 10yo girl (CHOP-101) who had
     experienced her second relapse after a 4/6 matched unrelated umbilical cord
     transplant 28 months after diagnosis and 10 months before CTLO19 infusion. She had
     experienced graft vs. host disease (GVHD) after her transplant, which resolved with
     treatment; she was off immunosuppression at the time of her relapse. She did not
                                                      41

WO 2014/011984                                                            PCT/US2013/050267
     subsequently re-enter remission in spite of multiple cytotoxic and biologic therapies.
     Her baseline karyotype was 46 XX, del(1)(p13), t(2;9)(q?21;q?21), t(3;17)(p24;q23),
     del(6)(ql6q21), del(9)(ql3q22), der(16)t(l;?;16)(pl3;?p13.3)[9],//46, Xy[1]. Before
     PBMC collection, she was treated with two cycles of blinatumomab (Bargou et al.,
  5  2008, Science 321:974-7) with no response. Her peripheral blood cells were 68%
     donor origin at the time of PBMC collection. CTLO19 T cells were manufactured and
     infused as a total dose of 107 cells/kg (1.4x10 6
                                                       CTLO19 cells/kg) in a single dose,
     after etoposide/cyclophosphamide chemotherapy given for lymphodepletion the week
     before. Her bone marrow on the day before CTLO19 infusion was replaced by a
 10  population of CD19+/CD34+ ALL cells, with variable expression of CD19 by
     standard clinical flow cytometry (Figure 7). She had no immediate infusional
     toxicities, but developed a fever on D+6 and was admitted to the hospital. She
     experienced no cardiopulmonary toxicities, and did not receive glucocorticoids or
     anti-cytokine therapy. CHOP-101 experienced fever of unknown origin, suspected to
 15  be due to cytokine release (Figure 4B), myalgias and two days of confusion (grade 3),
     which spontaneously resolved. She had no evidence of GVHD after the infusion of
     the CTLO19 cells. Though these cells had been collected from the patient, they were
     largely of donor (cord blood) origin.
20   Induction of remission in both subjects
                      Both subjects had an increase in circulating lymphocytes and
     neutrophils in the 2 weeks following CTLO19 infusion, as shown by plots depicting
     total WBC, ALC, and ANC relative to timing of CTLO19 infusion (Figure 4C). Most
     of the lymphocytes were comprised of T cells that expressed the chimeric antigen
25   receptor (Figure 8), shown in more detail in Figure 5. In both subjects, high-grade
     non-infectious fevers were documented, followed by elevations of LDH (Figure 4A).
     The elevations of LDH and high grade fevers were similar to those previously
     described in CLL patients after CTLO19 infusion (.Porter et al., 2011, N Engl J Med
     365:725-33; Kalos et al., 2011, Science Translational Medicine 3:95ra73).
30   Approximately one month after infusion, MRD negative (<0.01%) morphologic
     remission of leukemia was achieved in both subjects (Table 1).
                      The clinical remission in CHOP-100 was associated with a deep
     molecular remission that has persisted for at least 9 months as of January 2013 (Table
      1). High-throughput DNA sequencing of the IGH locus revealed a pronounced
                                                       42

WO 2014/011984                                                                           PCT/US2013/050267
     decrease in total IGH reads at D+23 in the blood and marrow of CHOP-100. The
     malignant clone was not detected in the blood or marrow in more than 1 million cell
     equivalents that were sequenced at D+180. In contrast, T-cell receptor sequences were
     readily detected in blood and marrow, indicating the integrity of the DNA tested at all
  5  timepoints.
     Table 1: Induction of molecular remission in blood and bone marrow of CHOP- 100
     and 101
         FR3tie i    7 is s&,; Thi.ep.,oh.  N UF)bTnb  Tqaz Tc p   Tc-tai k3,4         CF
                                                                               Th:t-sf!G     £
                                                                                             D    in ant  Tu mc'r
                                                                                 veads                   feum
                                           eqliva~er't
       CHP259-.00       sS          -1       1A         525,717                     S
                                                                                    6           17.
                                    25       215.21'   1C5 1,1          0           C                       flB
                                    &'7      238,1%152 1,416.3 78E      C           0             0         0.0
                                     8S
                                     I1      420"C-571 1,2 7 64%        6           2                       EG
                                    L7       645,633    42S,12           0                       11            .
                                     F        5                        45           7
       CHP9S.59.-
                10 1  Bk1C ad       -1       15S2,58S4 1, ST7,11 E   381 7i0       52          30 425      79.71;
                                    23       417}71    1,62, 9           2          5            1s        19
                                    CS,      916,571       N/A      5 340333S     2C15        363,'7 36      89
 10  Molecular analysis of minimal residualdisease was performed on DNA isolatedfrom
     whole blood or marrow
     Toxicity of CTLO19
                         Grade 3 and 4 adverse events are summarized in Table 2. Acute
 15  toxicity was observed in both patients that consisted of fever, and a cytokine release
     syndrome (CRS) that evolved into a macrophage activation syndrome (MAS). Both
     patients were monitored and given prophylaxis for tumor lysis syndrome. Both
     experienced substantial elevations of LDH, the causes of which were likely
     multifactorial but could have included tumor lysis syndrome. Each uric acid value in
20   CHOP-100 was either below normal or in the normal range, and she received
     allopurinol only on days 5-6. CHOP-101 received prophylactic allopurinol on days 0
      14 and had abnormal uric acid values of 4.8-5.7 on days 8-10, consistent with mild
     tumor lysis syndrome.
25   Table 2: Adverse events (grade 3 and 4) in CHOP-100 and CHOP-101
                                                               43

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
                                   ~~ ex. S'~~     "    hXXXX
                                                           XX XX x    $  . ............ ...... . ...
     Adverse events were graded according to Common Terminology Criteriafor Adverse
     Events 3.0
  5                  In CHOP-100, glucocorticoids were administered on D+5 with a brief
     response in the fever curve but without remission of hypotension. A single course of
     anti-cytokine therapy consisting of etanercept and toecilizumab was given on D+8 and
     was followed by rapid clinical effects: within hours she defervesced, was weaned off
     vasoactive medications and ventilatory support as her clinical and radiologic ARDS
 10  resolved. She did not have laboratory evidence of a tumor lysis syndrome; however,
     biochemical evidence of MAS was noteed with elevation of ferritin to 45,529ng/dl on
     D+1 1, coagulopathy with elevated d-dimer and hypofibrinogenemia,
     hepatosplenomegaly, elevation of transaminases, elevated LDH (Figure 4C), and
     elevated triglycerides, as well as a cytokine profile consistent with MAS. Her ferritin
 15  decreased to 2,368 by D+26 and the clinical and laboratory abnormalities of MAS
     resolved.
                     In CHOP- 101, although there was no direct evidence of a tumor lysis
     syndrome other than fever and changes in LDH (Figure 4C), she also developed
     features of MAS with elevations in ferritin to 33,360 on D+7, peaking at 74,899 on
20   day 11, transaminases that reached grade 4 for 1 day, and an elevated d-dimer in
     serum. These biochemical changes were reversible, as transaminases improved to
     grade 1 and the ferritin decreased to 3,894 by D+21. She was discharged from the
     hospital on day D+16.
                                                      44

WO 2014/011984                                                           PCT/US2013/050267
                     Both subjects developed prominent elevations in a number of
     cytokines and cytokine receptors in the serum (Figure IB). In both patients, elevations
     in interferon-7 and IL-6 were most prominent. These observations are similar to the
     pattern observed previously in patients with CLL who also experienced remission of
  5  leukemia after CTLO19 infusion (Kalos et al., 2011, Science Translational Medicine
     3:95ra73). The peak cytokine elevations were temporally correlated with systemic
     inflammation as judged by changes in core body temperature (Figure 4C).
     In vivo expansion of CTLO19 in patients with ALL
 10                  The fraction of CTLO19 T cells in circulation progressively increased
     in vivo to 72% (CHOP-100) and 34% (CHOP-101) of T cells (Figure 5A). The initial
     transduction efficiency was 11.6% and 14.4% in the T cells infused in CHOP-100 and
     -101, respectively. Given that the total ALC increased substantially in both patients
     (Figure 4C), and that the frequency of CTLO 19 cells progressively increased in vivo
 15  from the baseline frequency (Figure 8), there was a robust and selective expansion of
     CTLO19 cells in both patients. The selective increase in T cells expressing CTLO19 in
     both patients is consistent with an anti-leukemic mechanism involving CD 19-driven
     expansion, and with the subsequent elimination of cells that express CD19 in both
     patients (Figure 6 and Figure 9).
20                   Molecular deep sequence analysis of TCRs in the peripheral blood and
     marrow samples in CHOP-100 obtained at D+23, when >65% of CD3+ cells in
     peripheral blood and marrow were shown to be CTLO 19+ by flow cytometry,
     revealed the absence of a dominant T cell TCR clonotype in either compartment, with
     the 10 most abundant T cells present at frequencies between 0.18 - 0.7% in bone
25   marrow and 0.19 to 0.8% in peripheral blood. Six of the 10 dominant clones were
     shared between the two compartments. In addition both CD4 and CD8 CAR T cells
     are present. Thus, the CAR T cells appear to proliferate after CD 19-stimulated
     expansion, and not by TCR signals or clone-specific events such as activation by
     integration of the lentivirus.
30
     Trafficking and morphology of CTLO 19 CAR T cells in marrow and CNS
                     CTLO19 cells expanded more than 1000-fold in the peripheral blood
     and bone marrow (Figure 5). The frequency of CTLO19 cells increased to more than
      10% of circulating T cells by D+20 in both subjects (Figure 8), with the absolute
                                                      45

WO 2014/011984                                                            PCT/US2013/050267
     magnitude of CTLO 19 expansion similar to that observed in patients with CLL (Kalos
     et al., 2011, Science Translational Medicine 3:95ra73). Unexpectedly, cells in the
     CSF also showed a high degree of CTLO19 gene marking and also persisted at high
     frequency out to 6 months (Figure 5B). The trafficking of CTLO19 cells to the CSF
  5  was surprising given that neither patient had detectable CNS leukemia by cytospin at
     the time of infusion or at the 1 month post-treatment evaluation. Furthermore, prior
     reports of CAR therapy for B cell malignancies have not observed trafficking of CAR
     T cells to the CNS (Till et al., 2008, Blood 112:2261-71; Brentjens et al., 2011, Blood
      118:4817-28; Savoldo et al., 2011, J Clin Invest 121:1822-5; Jensen et al., 2010, Biol
 10  Blood Marrow Transplant 16:1245-56; Till et al., 2012, Blood 119:3940-50;
     Kochenderfer et al., 2012, Blood 119:2709-20). The morphology of the lymphocytes
     in blood and CSF is shown for CHOP-100 and 101 in Figure 5D. Since >70% of
     lymphocytes in circulation on D+10 were CTLO19 cells (Figures 5A and 5B), most of
     the large granular lymphocytes shown in the left panel of Figure 5D are likely
 15  CTLO19 cells. Similarly, since many lymphocytes in the CSF obtained from CHOP
      101 on D+23 were CTLO19 cells (Figures 5B and 5C), the cytospin of CSF
     lymphocytes in Figure 5D most likely represents the morphology of CTLO19 cells in
     vivo that have trafficked to the CNS.
20   Induction of B cell aplasia
                      Both subjects had an elimination of CD19 positive cells in bone
     marrow and blood within 1 month after CTLO19 infusion (Figure 6, and Figure 9). In
     CHOP-100, a large proportion of cells remaining in the marrow at D+6 after infusion
     were CD19+CD20+ leukemic blast cells. This population of cells was not detectable
25   by D+23, an effect that is maintained beyond 9 months in this patient (Figure 9A).
     Given that CHOP-100 did not have chemotherapy in the 6 weeks preceding CTLO19
     infusion, this indicates that CTLO19 cells were sufficient to ablate normal and
     leukemic B cells in this case.
30   Emergence of CD19 escape variant in CHOP-101
                      CHOP-101 experienced a clinical relapse apparent in the peripheral
     blood at 2 months after CTLO19 infusion, as evidenced by the reappearance of blast
     cells in the circulation. These cells were CD45dim positive, CD34 positive and did
     not express CD19 (Figure 6). The absence of the original dominant
                                                      46

WO 2014/011984                                                            PCT/US2013/050267
     CD34dim+CD34+CD19dim+ cells is consistent with a potent anti-leukemic selective
     pressure of the CTLO19 CAR T cells directed to CD19 (Figure 9B). Deep IGH
     sequencing revealed the presence of the malignant clone in peripheral blood and
     marrow as early as D+23 (Table 1), despite a clinical assessment of MRD negativity
  5  by flow cytometry at this timepoint (Figure 7). In addition, deep sequencing of
     material obtained at clinical relapse revealed that the CD45dimCD34+CD19- cells are
     clonally related to the initial dominant CD45dim+CD34+CD19dim+ cells, since they
     share the same IGH sequence.
 10  Remission of ALL by Chimeric Antigen Receptor-Expressing T Cells
                     The results presented herein demonstrate the induction of remission of
     relapsed and refractory leukemia in the first two patients treated on this protocol.
     Remission has been sustained in one subject and was accompanied by relapse due to
     the emergence of CD19 negative blasts in the other subject. Genetically modified
 15  CTLO19 cells trafficked to the CNS at high levels in both patients. Cytokine
     elevations were observed that were on target, reversible, and temporally accompanied
     by elimination of blast cells that expressed CD19 in both subjects. The induction of
     complete remission in refractory CD 19 positive ALL following infusion of CAR T
     cells is encouraging, particularly given the low frequency of remissions following the
20   infusion of allogeneic donor lymphocyte infusions that do not express CARs (Kolb et
     al., 1995, Blood 86:2041-50; Collins et al., 1997, J Clin Oncol 15:433-44; Collins et
     al., 2000, Bone Marrow Transplant 26(5):511-6). Deep sequencing technology
     indicated that the CTLO19 CAR infusion was associated with a sustained 5-log
     reduction in the frequency of malignant B cells in CHOP-100, further indicating
25   potent antitumor effects in chemotherapy-refractory leukemia.
                     The unfortunate emergence of CD19-negative blast cells in one subject
     is consistent with previous reports that document the existence of CD19-negative
     precursor cells in some cases of ALL (Hotfilder et al., 2005, Cancer Research
     65:1442-9; le Viseur et al., 2008, Cancer Cell 14:47-58). It is possible that the
30   coinfusion of CAR T cells redirected to novel specificities in addition to CD19 might
     decrease the likelihood of this event. Thus far, relapse with CD 19-negative escape
     cells in adults with CLL after treatment with CTLO19 cells have not been observed
     (Kalos et al., 2011, Science Translational Medicine 3:95ra73), suggesting that this
     issue may be specific for a subset of acute leukemias. The induction of remission in
                                                       47

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
     CHOP-100 did not require concomitant chemotherapy, and is consistent with a
     previous report showing that remissions in CLL could be delayed for several weeks
     following chemotherapy (Porter et al., 2011, N Engl J Med 365:725-33). Thus,
     concomitant administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy may not be necessary for
  5  CAR-mediated antitumor effects.
                      Both pediatric ALL patients experienced substantial toxicity after
     CTLO19 infusion. The induction of B-cell aplasia was observed, and indicates that the
     CAR T cells can function in the setting of relapsed acute leukemia. Both patients have
     also developed clinical and laboratory evidence of cytokine release syndrome and
 10  macrophage activation syndrome within a week of infusion. The cytokine profile
     observed in these patients is similar to prior reports of cytokine patterns in children
     with hemaphagocytosis and macrophage activation syndrome or hemophagocytic
     lymphohistiocytosis (Tang et al., 2008, Br J Haematol 143:84-9 1; Behrens et al.,
     2011, J Clin Invest 121(6):2264-77). Macrophage activation syndrome is
 15  characterized by hyperinflammation with prolonged fever, hepatosplenomegaly, and
     cytopenias. Laboratory findings characteristic of this syndrome are elevated ferritin,
     triglycerides, transaminases, bilirubin (mostly conjugated) and soluble interleukin-2
     receptor a-chain, and decreased fibrinogen (Janka et al., 2012, Annu Rev Med
     63:233-46). Recent studies indicate that tocilizumab (anti-IL6) has promise for
20   glucocorticoid resistant GVHD (Drobyski et al., 2011, Biol Blood Marrow Transplant
      17(12):1862-8; Le Huu et al., 2012, J Invest Dermatol 132(12):2752-61; Tawara et
     al., 2011, Clinical Cancer Research 17:77-88), and the results presented herein are
     consistent with these data.
                      The vigorous in vivo expansion of CTLO19, persistent B-cell aplasia
25   and prominent anti-leukemia activity imply substantial and sustained effector
     functions of the CTLO19 cells in pediatric patients with advanced ALL. The high
     efficiency of trafficking of CAR T cells to the CNS is encouraging as a mechanism
     for surveillance to prevent relapse in a sanctuary site such as the CNS (Pullen et al.,
      1993, J Clin Oncol 11(5):839-49), and supports the testing of CAR T-cell-directed
30   therapies for CNS lymphomas and primary CNS malignancies. With the exception of
     B-cell aplasia, the duration of which is currently undefined, it is believed that the use
     of immune-based therapies such as CTLO 19 may have a favorable profile of long
     term adverse effects compared to the high doses of chemotherapy and radiation that
                                                       48

WO 2014/011984                                                             PCT/US2013/050267
     are employed as the current standard of care for most cases of pediatric leukemia
     (Garcia-Manero and Thomas, 2001, Hematol Oncol Clin North Am 15(1):163-205).
     Induction of complete remissions of ALL by chimeric antigen receptor-expressing T
  5  cells
                     Tocilizumab (anti-IL6) has promise for glucocorticoid resistant
     GVHD, and the results presented herein are consistent with these data. Further, it is
     interesting to note that in CHOP 100, the CRS manifesting as high fever, hypotension
     and multi-organ failure was resistant to the high doses of glucocorticoids administered
 10  over the previous 2 days before cytokine directed therapy. Finally, in CHOP-100 the
     biphasic changes in IL-1P, IL-IRA and IL-2 shown in Figure 4B may have been
     related to cytokine-directed therapy with etanercept and tocilizumab.
                     The induction of remission in a patient refractory to blinatumomab
     therapy further highlights the potency of CTLO19 cells. The high efficiency of
 15  trafficking of CAR T cells to the CNS is encouraging as a mechanism for surveillance
     to prevent relapse in a sanctuary site such as the CNS, and supports the testing of
     CAR T-cell-directed therapies for CNS lymphomas and primary CNS malignancies.
     Neither patient has experienced cognitive effects that might be ascribed to the
     trafficking of T cells to the CNS.
20
     Example 4: Summary information
                     Various markers were measured in patients receiving CAR T cells. As
     a non-limiting example, Ferritin, Myoglobin, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-I
     (PAI-1) were measure; see Figures 10, 11 and 12, respectively. Elevated levels of
25   these markers correlated with outcome. Patients designated as -01, -03, -09, -100 and
     -101 were classified as complete responders. Patients designated as -02, -05, -10
     (second infusion and response around D70) and -12 were classified as partial
     responders. Patient designated as -06, -07 and -14 were classified as non-responders.
30                   The disclosures of each and every patent, patent application, and
     publication cited herein are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
     While this invention has been disclosed with reference to specific embodiments, it is
     apparent that other embodiments and variations of this invention may be devised by
     others skilled in the art without departing from the true spirit and scope of the
                                                       49

WO 2014/011984                                                         PCT/US2013/050267
     invention. The appended claims are intended to be construed to include all such
     embodiments and equivalent variations.
                                                   50

WO 2014/011984                                                              PCT/US2013/050267
                                               CLAIMS
     What is claimed is:
                       1.     A method of treating a patient having a disease, disorder or
     condition associated with an elevated expression of a tumor antigen, the method
     comprising administering a first-line therapy and a second-line therapy to a patient in
     need thereof, wherein the first line therapy comprises administering to the patient an
     effective amount of a cell genetically modified to express a CAR, wherein the CAR
     comprises an antigen binding domain, a transmembrane domain, and an intracellular
     signaling domain.
                      2.      The method of claim 1, wherein following the administration of
     the first-line therapy, cytokine levels in the patient are monitored to determine the
     appropriate type of second-line therapy to be administered to the patient and the
     appropriate second-line therapy is administered to the patient in need thereof.
                      3.      The method of claim 2, wherein an increase in the level of a
     cytokine identifies a type of cytokine inhibitory therapy to be administered to the
     patient in need thereof.
                      4.      The method of claim 3, wherein the cytokine is selected from
     the group consisting of IL-1P, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15,
     IL-17, IL-IRa, IL-2R, IFN-a, IFN-y, MIP-la, MIP-1p, MCP-1, TNFa, GM-CSF, G
     CSF, CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCR factors, VEGF, RANTES, EOTAXIN, EGF, HGF,
     FGF-p, CD40, CD40L, ferritin, and any combination thereof.
                      5.      The method of claim 3, wherein the cytokine inhibitory therapy
     is selected from the group consisting of a small interfering RNA (siRNA), a
     microRNA, an antisense nucleic acid, a ribozyme, an expression vector encoding a
     transdominant negative mutant, an antibody, a peptide, a small molecule, a cytokine
     inhibitory drug, and any combination thereof.
                      6.      The method of claim 2, wherein the cytokine levels are
     monitored by detecting the protein level of the cytokine in a biological sample from
     the patient.
                                                        51

WO 2014/011984                                                            PCT/US2013/050267
                      7.     The method of claim 2, wherein the cytokine levels are
     monitored by detecting the nucleic acid level of the cytokine in a biological sample
     from the patient.
                      8.     A method of reducing or avoiding an adverse effect associated
     with the administration of a cell genetically modified to express a CAR, wherein the
     CAR comprises an antigen binding domain, a transmembrane domain, and an
     intracellular signaling domain, the method comprising monitoring the levels of a
     cytokine in a patient to determine the appropriate type of cytokine therapy to be
     administered to the patient and administering the appropriate cytokine therapy to the
     patient.
                      9.     The method of claim 8, wherein an increase in the level of a
     cytokine identifies a type of cytokine inhibitory therapy to be administered to the
     patient.
                      10.    The method of claim 9, wherein the cytokine is selected from
     the group consisting of IL-1P, IL-2, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-12, IL-13, IL-15,
     IL-17, IL-lRa, IL-2R, IFN-a, IFN-y, MIP-la, MIP-1p, MCP-1, TNFa, GM-CSF, G
     CSF, CXCL9, CXCL10, CXCR factors, VEGF, RANTES, EOTAXIN, EGF, HGF,
     FGF-p, CD40, CD40L, ferritin, and any combination thereof.
                      11.    The method of claim 9, wherein the cytokine inhibitory therapy
     is selected from the group consisting of a small interfering RNA (siRNA), a
     microRNA, an antisense nucleic acid, a ribozyme, an expression vector encoding a
     transdominant negative mutant, an intracellular antibody, a peptide, a small molecule,
     a cytokine inhibitory drug, and any combination thereof.
                      12.    The method of claim 8, wherein the cytokine levels are
     monitored by detecting the protein level of the cytokine in a biological sample from
     the patient.
                      13.    The method of claim 8, wherein the cytokine levels are
     monitored by detecting the nucleic acid level of the cytokine in a biological sample
     from the patient.
                                                      52

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
