   Abstract
      Provided are a composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure and a curtain wall formed by the
   composite board, which relates to the technical field of boards. The composite
 5 board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure includes M plates and M-1 bearing boards. A first bearing board has
   a first surface and a second surface opposite to each other. The first surface
   has a plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge
   arch structure which extend towards one plate of two adjacent plates to form a
10 connection with the one plate. The second surface has a plurality of second
   protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure which
   extend towards the other plate of the two adjacent plates to form a connection
   with the other plate. The composite board having a bearing board of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure is lightweight due to a
15 hollow structure, and at the same time two adjacent plates are supported by
   the plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure and the plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure, so as to ensure the strength and
   stiffness of the composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
20 full-dimensional bridge arch structure, and to improve the applicability of the
   composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional
   bridge arch structure. (Fig. 2)

Drawings
              123
   121                      100
                                                        )110
                  L       12020B
      133             134
                                 Fig. 1
                  120                             B)110
    121
         1233
                                             12 2
                                        12 4
                                 Fig. 2
                                   1/6

10  10
   Fig. 10
      6/6

            Composite Board having Bearing Board of Volute-shaped
     Full-dimensional Bridge Arch Structure and Curtain Wall Formed by the
                                    Composite Board
 5 Cross-Reference to Related Applications
      This application claims priority to a Chinese Patent Application No.
   <removed-apn>379 filed with the State Intellectual Property Office on December
   27, 2017 and entitled "Composite Board having Bearing Board of
   Volute-shaped Full-dimensional Bridge Arch Structure and Curtain Wall
10 Formed by the Composite Board", the entire contents of which are
   incorporated herein by reference.
   Technical Field
      The present disclosure relates to the technical field of board, and particularly
   to a composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
15 full-dimensional bridge arch structure and a curtain wall formed by the
   composite board.
   Background Art
      With the continuous development of science and technology, more and
   more boards are applied to the fields of architectural curtain walls, interior
20 decorations, carriages of a high-speed train and of a subway train, etc. In order
   to meet the application requirements in these application fields, these boards
   need to have characteristics such as high strength, flatness, and fire
   resistance and flame retardance.
      At present, the vast majority of the boards, which satisfy the above
25 characteristics so as to be applied to the above fields, are single-layer metal
   plates. Although the single-layer metal plates meet the above performance
   requirements to a certain extent, it is difficult to achieve a large-scale and
   automated production in the post-processing of the single-layer metal plates.
   Moreover, the single-layer metal plates have a low weight-to-strength ratio,
30 resulting in a large amount of material consumption, which can hardly meet the
   lightweight requirement of materials in current applications, thereby limiting the
   extension of the application scope.
   Summary of the Disclosure
      In view of this, embodiments of the present disclosure provides a composite
35 board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure and a curtain wall formed by the composite board, which can
   effectively alleviate at least one of the above deficiencies.
      Embodiments of the present disclosure are implemented in the following
   manners.

      In a first aspect, the present invention provides a composite board having a
   bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure. The
   composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional
   bridge arch structure includes M plates and M-1 bearing boards. The M plates
 5 are arranged sequentially. A bearing space between every two adjacent plates
   of the M plates is provided with a first bearing board, with each bearing space
   corresponding to one first bearing board. Each of the first bearing board is any
   one of the M-1 bearing boards, and M is an integer not less than 2. The first
   bearing board has a first surface and a second surface opposite to each other.
10 The first surface has a plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure which extend towards one plate of the
   two adjacent plates to form a connection with the one plate, and the second
   surface has a plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure which extend towards the other plate of
15 the two adjacent plates to form a connection with the other plate.
      In the present embodiment, there is a bearing space between two adjacent
   plates, so that the composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure forms a hollow structure. Each bearing
   space is provided with one first bearing board, and the first surface of the first
20 bearing board has a plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure which extend towards one plate of two
   adjacent plates to form a connection with the one plate, and the second
   surface of the first bearing board has a plurality of second protrusions of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure which extend towards the
25 other plate of the two adjacent plates to form a connection with the other plate.
   Therefore, the composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure is lightweight due to the hollow structure,
   and at the same time the strength and stiffness of the composite board having
   a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure are
30 ensured by the plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional
   bridge arch structure and the plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure supporting corresponding two adjacent
   plates, thereby significantly improving the applicability of the composite board
   having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
35 structure in various fields.
      Optionally, the plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure are disposed on the first surface in a first
   array, and the plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure are disposed on the second surface in a
40 second array.
      In the present embodiment, in the case that the plurality of first protrusions of
   a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure are disposed in a first
   array and the plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped
                                             2

   full-dimensional bridge arch structure are disposed in a second array, the
   plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure and the plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure form a support for the corresponding two
 5 adjacent plates, so that force is uniformly applied throughout each plate in the
   composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional
   bridge arch structure. Therefore, the composite board having a bearing board
   of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure has extremely high
   compression resistance, and even in the case where the board has a large
10 size, a high flatness of the overall board can be maintained.
      Optionally, each of the plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure formed on the first surface is projected
   on the second surface at a position where the second array of the plurality of
   second protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure
15 forms a gap; each of the plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure formed on the second surface is
   projected on the first surface at a position where the first array of the plurality of
   first protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure forms
   a gap; and each first protrusion of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
20 structure forms a wavy structure with an adjacent second protrusion of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure.
       In the present embodiment, in the case that each of the plurality of first
   protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure formed
   on the first surface is projected on the second surface at a position where the
25 second array of the plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure forms a gap, and each of the plurality of
   second protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure
   formed on the second surface is also projected on the first surface at a position
   where the first array of the plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped
30 full-dimensional bridge arch structure forms a gap, such that each first
   protrusion of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure forms a
   wavy structure with an adjacent second protrusion of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure. With the wavy structure, fully use of the
   surface region of a first bearing board is realized when the plurality of first
35 protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure and the
   plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure are disposed on the first bearing board, so that the material and cost
   for manufacturing the first bearing board can be saved, and at the same time
   the first bearing board is provided with as many first protrusions of a
40 volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure and second protrusions of
   a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure as possible.
      Optionally, an edge of each first protrusion of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure is connected with an edge of at least one
                                             3

   adjacent first protrusion of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure, among the plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure.
       In the present embodiment, in the case that an edge of each first protrusion
 5 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure is connected with an
   edge of at least one adjacent first protrusion of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure, among the plurality of first protrusions of
   a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, the surface region of
   the first bearing board is further fully utilized, so that the material and cost for
10 manufacturing the first bearing board can be saved, and at the same time the
   first bearing board is further provided with more first protrusions of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure.
      Optionally, a part of each first protrusion of a volute-shaped full-dimensional
   bridge arch structure, which is connected with the one plate, is a planar.
15     In the present embodiment, in the case that a part of each first protrusion of
   a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, which is connected with
   the one plate, is a planar, area of a position where each first protrusion of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure is connected with the one
   plate is increased, so that the plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped
20 full-dimensional bridge arch structure are more firmly connected to the one
   plate and have a better supporting effect on the one plate, which further
   increases the strength and stiffness of the composite board having a bearing
   board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure.
      Optionally, an edge of each second protrusion of a volute-shaped
25 full-dimensional bridge arch structure is connected with an edge of at least one
   adjacent second protrusion of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure, among the plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure.
       In the present embodiment, in the case that an edge of each second
30 protrusion of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure is
   connected with an edge of at least one adjacent second protrusion of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, among the plurality of
   second protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure,
   the surface region of the first bearing board is further fully utilized, so that the
35 material and cost for manufacturing the first bearing board can be saved, and
   at the same time the first bearing board is further provided with more second
   protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure.
      Optionally, a part of each second protrusion of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure, which is connected with the other plate,
40 is a planar.
                                              4

      In the present embodiment, in the case that a part of each second protrusion
   of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, that is connected
   with the other plate, is a planar, area of a position where each second
   protrusion of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure is
 5 connected with the other plate is increased, so that the plurality of second
   protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure are more
   firmly connected to the other plate and have a better supporting effect on the
   other plate, which further increases the strength and stiffness of the composite
   board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
10 structure.
      Optionally, M is 2.
      Optionally, M is 3.
      In a second aspect, the present invention provides a composite board
   having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
15 structure, including:
          N plates, the adjacent plates of the N plates being disposed side by side,
      and N being a positive integer greater than or equal to 2; and
          supporting means which is mounted between the two adjacent plates,
          where the supporting means includes a plurality of volute units arranged
20     in a preset manner,
          each of the plurality of volute units includes a first planar portion and a
      connecting portion, and the connecting portion extends from the first planar
       portion in a direction away from the first planar portion,
          the connecting portion has a first concave and a second concave facing
25    away from each other,
          the first concave extends from a first position of an edge of the first planar
       portion in a direction away from the first planar portion, and the first concave
       is recessed towards the second concave, and
          the second concave extends from a second position, opposite to the first
30     position, of the edge of the first planar portion in the direction away from the
      first planar portion, and the second concave is recessed towards the first
      concave.
      Optionally, the adjacent volute units are connected with each other.
      Optionally, the volute unit further includes a second planar portion, and ends
35 of the second concaves of the adjacent volute units, away from the first planar
   portion, are connected through the second planar portion.
      Optionally, the plurality of volute units are distributed in a rectangle array.
                                              5

      Optionally, an end of the connecting portion of each volute unit, away from
   the first planar portion, includes four arcuate end surfaces, and the arcuate end
   surfaces are configured so that adjacent volute units are connected with each
   other through the arcuate end surfaces; and
 5        the four arcuate end surfaces are distributed symmetrically with respect to
       each other.
      Optionally, the adjacent arcuate end surfaces are connected by an inwardly
   recessed secondary concave; and
          the adjacent secondary concaves form an intersection line.
10    Optionally, the intersection line is located at a top of an arc of the arcuate
   end surface.
      Optionally, both the first concave and the second concave are smooth
   curved surfaces.
      Optionally, the supporting means is in a centrosymmetric pattern.
15    Optionally, both the first planar portion and the second planar portion are
   circular.
       In a third aspect, the present invention also provides a curtain wall formed by
   the composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
20 full-dimensional bridge arch structure. The curtain wall includes the described
   composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional
   bridge arch structure.
       Beneficial effects of the embodiments of the present disclosure include, for
   example:
25    there is a bearing space between two adjacent plates, so that the composite
   board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure forms a hollow structure. Each bearing space is provided with one
   first bearing board, and the first surface of the first bearing board has a plurality
   of first protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure
30 which extend towards one plate of two adjacent plates to form a connection
   with the one plate, and the second surface of the first bearing board has a
   plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure which extend towards the other plate of the two adjacent plates to
   form a connection with the other plate. Therefore, the composite board having
35 a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure is
   lightweight due to the hollow structure, and at the same time, the strength and
   stiffness of the composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure are ensured by the plurality of first
   protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure and the
                                              6

   plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure supporting the corresponding two adjacent plates. Even in the case
   where the composite board has a large size, the flatness of the overall board
   surface of the composite board can be maintained, and the deformation of the
 5 board surface is prevented, so that the composite board having a bearing
   board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure can achieve
   wide application and application feasibility in various fields.
      Additional features and advantages of the disclosure will be set forth below
   in the description, and in part will be apparent from the description, or may be
10 learned by practice of the embodiments of the disclosure. Other advantages of
   the disclosure may be realized and attained by the structure particularly
   pointed out in the written description, claims, and drawings.
      As used herein, the term "comprise" and variations of the term, such as
   "comprising", "comprises" and "comprised", are not intended to exclude other
15 additives, components, integers or steps.
   Brief Description of Drawings
      For illustrating technical solutions of embodiments of the present disclosure
   more clearly, drawings required for use in the embodiments will be introduced
   briefly below. It is apparent that the drawings in the following description are
20 merely illustrative of some embodiments of the present disclosure. For the
   ordinary skilled in the art, other drawings could also be obtained from these
   drawings without any involvement of inventive effort. The above and other
   objects, features and advantages of the present disclosure will become clearer
   from the illustration in the accompanying drawings. The same reference
25 numerals indicate the same parts throughout the drawings. The drawings are
   not intentionally scaled in accordance with actual dimensions or the like, and
   are mainly for illustrating the gist of the present disclosure.
      Fig. 1 shows a sectional view of a composite board having a bearing board
   of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, provided in an
30 embodiment of the present disclosure;
      Fig. 2 shows an exploded view of a composite board having a bearing board
   of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, provided in an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
      Fig. 3 shows a schematic structural view of a composite board having a
35 bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure,
   provided in an embodiment of the present disclosure;
      Fig. 4 shows a schematic structural view of a volute unit in Fig. 2;
      Fig. 5 shows a partial schematic view of Fig. 2;
      Fig. 6 shows a schematic structural view of Fig. 4 from another visual angle;
                                              7

       Fig. 7 shows a schematic structural view of Fig. 6 from another visual angle;
       Fig. 8 shows another exploded view of a composite board having a bearing
   board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, provided in an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
 5     Fig. 9 shows another sectional view of a composite board having a bearing
   board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, provided in an
   embodiment of the present disclosure;
       Fig. 10 shows a schematic structural view of a curtain wall formed by the
   composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional
10 bridge arch structure, provided in an embodiment of the present disclosure.
       Reference numerals: 100- composite board having a bearing board of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure; 110- plate; A- plate; B
   plate; C- plate; 120- bearing board; 121- first surface; 122- second surface;
   123- first protrusion of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure;
15 124- second protrusion of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure; 10- curtain wall formed by composite board having a bearing board
   of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure; 130- supporting
   means; 140-volute unit; 141- first planar portion; 1411-arcuate end surface;
   142- second planar portion; 143- connecting portion; 1431- first concave;
20 14311- secondary concave; 1432- second concave; 150- intersection line.
   Detailed Description of Embodiments
       In order to make the objects, technical solutions and advantages of the
   embodiments of the present disclosure clearer, the technical solutions of the
   embodiments of the present disclosure will be described below clearly and
25 completely with reference to the drawings of the embodiments of the present
   disclosure. It is apparent that the embodiments to be described are some, but
   not all of the embodiments of the present disclosure. Generally, the
   components of the embodiments of the present disclosure, as described and
   illustrated in the figures herein, may be arranged and designed in a wide
30 variety of different configurations.
       Thus, the following detailed description of the embodiments of the present
   disclosure, as represented in the figures, is not intended to limit the scope of
   the present disclosure as claimed, but is merely representative of selected
   embodiments of the present disclosure. All the other embodiments obtained by
35 the ordinary skilled in the art in light of the embodiments of the present
   disclosure without paying inventive efforts would fall within the scope of the
   present disclosure as claimed.
       It should be noted that similar reference numerals and letters refer to similar
   items in the following figures, and thus once an item is defined in one figure, it
40 may not be further defined or explained in the following figures. In addition,
                                             8

   terms such as "first" and "second" are used only for distinguishing the
   description, and should not be understood as indicating or implying to have
   importance in relativity.
      In the description of the present disclosure, it should be stated that
 5 orientation or positional relations indicated by the terms such as "horizontal",
   "vertical", and "inside" are the orientation or positional relations shown based
   on the figures, or the orientation or positional relations in which the inventive
   product is conventionally placed in use, and these terms are intended only to
   facilitate the description of the present disclosure and simplify the description,
10 but not intended to indicate or imply that the referred devices or elements must
   be in a particular orientation or constructed or operated in the particular
   orientation, and therefore should not be construed as limiting the present
   disclosure.
      In addition, terms "disposed", "mounted", and "connected" should be
15 understood broadly. For example, connection may be fixed connection or
   detachable connection or integral connection, may be mechanical connection
   or electric connection, or may be direct coupling or indirect coupling via an
   intermediate medium or internal communication between two elements. The
   specific meanings of the above terms in the present disclosure could be
20 understood by the ordinary skilled in the art according to specific situations.
      First Embodiment
      Referring to Figs. 1 and 2, an embodiment of the present disclosure provides
   a composite board 100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure. The composite board 100 having a
25 bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure
   includes M plates 110 and M-1 bearing boards 120, and M is an integer not
   less than 2.
      In the composite board 100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure, the M plates 110 are arranged
30 sequentially in parallel in a same direction, so that each plate 110 is parallel to
   other plates 110. As one mode, in order to ensure the regularity of the
   composite board 100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure, a shape formed by projecting the M
   plates 110 in the arrangement direction is the shape of any one plate 110 of
35 the M plates 110, but the present embodiment is not limited thereto.
      Due to the arrangement mode of the M plates 110, a bearing space may be
   formed between every two adjacent plates 110 of the M plates 110, therefore
   each bearing space between two adjacent plates 110 may be provided with
   one first bearing board 120, and the first bearing board 120 is any one bearing
40 board 120 of the M-1 bearing boards 120. Based on this arrangement mode,
   for example, a composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
                                             9

   full-dimensional bridge arch structure has three plates 110, that is M is equal to
   3, and has two bearing boards 120. The three plates 110 are plate A, plate B,
   and plate C, respectively. The two bearing boards 120 are bearing board D
   and bearing board E, respectively. In this case, the composite board having a
 5 bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure may
   have such a specific structure that the bearing board D is disposed between
   the plate A and the plate B, while the bearing board E is disposed between the
   plate B and the plate C.
       Referring to Figs. 1, 2, and 3, in the present embodiment, every two adjacent
10 plates 110 in the composite board 100 having a bearing board of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure constitute a set of plates
   110, and the structure of a first bearing board 120 correspondingly disposed in
   each set of plates 110 is the same as the structure of a first bearing board 120
   correspondingly disposed in each of the other sets of plates 110. Therefore,
15 the structure of a first bearing board 120 correspondingly disposed in any one
   set of plates 110 will be taken as an example to be subsequently described in
   detail in the present embodiment.
       In two adjacent plates 110 of the set of plates 110, both the plate A and the
   plate B are of a plate-like structure made of metal. The shapes and sizes of
20 plate surfaces of the plate A and the plate B can be selected according to
   actual use. For example, a rectangle, a triangle, a polygon, or the like may be
   selected. The present embodiment will be described by taking a case where
   the plate A and the plate B both have a rectangular plate surface shape and
   have a thickness of 0.2 mm to 2.0 mm as an example, but the present
25 embodiment is not limited thereto. Furthermore, both the plate A and the plate
   B made of the metal material may be galvanized steel plates, aluminum plates,
   copper plates, titanium plates, stainless steel plates, or the like. In addition,
   both the plate A and the plate B may be coated with a decorative coating
   surface, or may be affixed with wood, cloth, or stone veneer for a certain
30 decoration, according to the decorative application requirements for the plate
   110 in actual use.
      A bearing space is defined between the two adjacent plates 110, and the
   first bearing board 120 corresponding to the two adjacent plates 110 is
   mounted in the bearing space.
35    Specifically, the first bearing board 120 is also of a plate-like structure made
   of metal. The shape and size of the first bearing board 120 may be selected
   according to actual use. For example, a rectangle, a triangle, a polygon, or the
   like may be selected. The present embodiment will be described by taking the
   shape of the first bearing board 120 as a rectangle, but the present
40 embodiment is not limited thereto. Furthermore, the first bearing board 120
   made of a metal material may also be a galvanized steel plate, an aluminum
   plate, a copper plate, a titanium plate, a stainless steel plate, or the like.
                                              10

      The plate-like structure of the first bearing board 120 allows the first bearing
   board 120 to have a first surface 121 and a second surface 122 opposite to
   each other. Furthermore, if the first bearing board 120 is placed on a horizontal
   plane, an upper surface of the first bearing board 120 away from the horizontal
 5 plane may be the first surface 121, and a lower surface of the first bearing
   board 120 close to the horizontal plane may be the second surface 122. In
   order to facilitate structural supporting for the two adjacent plates 110 by the
   first bearing board 120 after the first bearing board is disposed in the bearing
   space, the first surface 121 has a plurality of first protrusions 123 of a
10 volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure which extend towards one
   plate A of the two adjacent plates 110 to form a connection with the one plate A,
   while the second surface 122 has a plurality of second protrusions 124 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure which extend towards the
   other plate B of the two adjacent plates 110 to form a connection with the other
15 plate B. Specifically, the first bearing board 120 is subjected to a double-roller
   calendering process, so that the first protrusions 123 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure and the second protrusions 124 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure are formed on the first
   bearing board 120. Furthermore, the use of the roller calendering process
20 enables the first bearing board 120 to be suitable for automated serial mass
   production, and also to have a higher strength ratio. However, the present
   embodiment is not limited to the use of this process.
      Optionally, each first protrusion 123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional
   bridge arch structure and each second protrusion 124 of a volute-shaped
25 full-dimensional bridge arch structure may each have a protrusion height of 0.8
   mm to 5.5 mm, but the present embodiment is not limited thereto.
       Furthermore, in order to ensure that the plate A is supported to bear uniform
   force after the plurality of first protrusions 123 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure form a support for the plate A, the
30 plurality of first protrusions 123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure are disposed on the first surface 121 in a first array. Therefore, with a
   distance between a plurality of first protrusions 123 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure in each row of the first array being a first
   constant value, and with a distance between a plurality of first protrusions 123
35 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure in each column of the
   first array being a second constant value, multiple support points formed for
   supporting the plate A are made to be uniformly distributed on the plate A,
   thereby achieving uniform application of force throughout the plate A.
       Furthermore, in order also to ensure that the plate B is supported to bear
40 uniform force after the plurality of second protrusions 124 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure form a support for the plate B, the
   plurality of second protrusions 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge
   arch structure are disposed on the second surface 122 in a second array.
                                              11

   Therefore, with a distance between a plurality of second protrusions 124 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure in each row of the second
   array being a first constant value, and with a distance between a plurality of
   second protrusions 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
 5 structure in each column of the second array being a second constant value,
   multiple support points formed for supporting the plate B are uniformly
   distributed on the plate B, thereby achieving uniform application of force
   throughout the plate B.
      Thus, in the case that the plurality of first protrusions 123 of a volute-shaped
10 full-dimensional bridge arch structure are disposed in a first array and the
   plurality of second protrusions 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge
   arch structure are disposed in a second array, the composite board 100 having
   a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure has
   extremely high compression resistance, and even in the case where the board
15 has a large size, a high flatness of the overall board surface can be
   maintained.
      In the present embodiment, in order to make full use of the surface area of
   the first bearing board 120, each of the plurality of first protrusions 123 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure formed on the first surface
20 121 is projected on the second surface 122 at a position where the second
   array of the plurality of second protrusions 124 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure forms a gap, and similarly, each of the
   plurality of second protrusions 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge
   arch structure formed on the second surface 122 is projected on the second
25 surface 121 at a position where the first array of the plurality of first protrusions
   123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure forms a gap. It
   can be understood, based on this construction, that each first protrusion 123 of
   a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure can form a continuous
   wavy structure with an adjacent second protrusion 124 of a volute-shaped
30 full-dimensional bridge arch structure, or each second protrusion 124 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure can form a continuous
   wavy structure with an adjacent first protrusion 123 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure. In other words, at a position of the
   second surface 122 corresponding to the first protrusion 123 of a
35 volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure formed on the first surface
   121, a groove is formed, and similarly, at a position of the first surface 121
   corresponding to the second protrusion 124 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure formed on the second surface 122, a
   groove is also formed.
40    Furthermore, in order to make further full use of the surface region of the first
   bearing board 120, as an optional implementation, edges of each first
   protrusion 123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure are
   connected with edges of at least one adjacent first protrusion 123 of a
                                             12

   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure among the plurality of first
   protrusions 123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, so
   that the plurality of first protrusions 123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional
   bridge arch structure are formed to be continuously distributed on the first
 5 surface 121. For example, edges of a first protrusion 123 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure located at the periphery of the first
   surface 121 may be connected with edges of three adjacent first protrusions
   123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure; edges of a first
   protrusion 123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure
10 located at a corner of the periphery of the first surface 121 may be connected
   with edges of two adjacent first protrusions 123 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure; and edges of a first protrusion 123 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure located at the center of
   the first surface 121 may be connected with edges of four adjacent first
15 protrusions 123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure.
      Correspondingly, in order also to make further full use of the surface region
   of the first bearing board 120, as an optional implementation, edges of each
   second protrusion 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure are also connected with edges of at least one adjacent second
20 protrusion 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure
   among the plurality of second protrusions 124 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure, so that the plurality of second
   protrusions 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure are
   also formed to be continuously distributed on the second surface 122. Also, for
25 example, edges of a second protrusion 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional
   bridge arch structure located at the periphery of the second surface 122 may
   be connected with edges of three adjacent second protrusions 124 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure; edges of a second
   protrusion 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure
30 located at a corner of the periphery of the second surface 122 may be
   connected with edges of two adjacent second protrusions 124 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure; and edges of a second
   protrusion 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure
   located at the center of the second surface 122 may be connected with edges
35 of four adjacent second protrusions 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional
   bridge arch structure.
      In addition, it is necessary to enable the plurality of first protrusions 123 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure to be more firmly
   connected to the one plate A and have a better supporting effect on the one
40 plate A, and it is also necessary to enable the plurality of second protrusions
   124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure to be more firmly
   connected to the other plate B and have a better supporting effect on the other
   plate B.
                                            13

       It should be noted that, on the first bearing board 120, the first protrusions
   123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure and the second
   protrusions 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure
   exhibit a continuous structure formed by circular arches and circular arches
 5 based on the above construction, such that the shape and configuration of the
   first bearing board 120 on the first surface 121 is the same as the shape and
   configuration on the second surface 122, and furthermore, the first bearing
   board 120 forms a double-side volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure.
10     In one implementation of the present embodiment, a connection part of each
   first protrusion 123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure,
   connected with one plate A, is a planar. The specific shape of connection part
   of the first protrusion 123 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure may be a circular arched shape, thus the shape of the planar may be
15 a circle with a radius of 1.2 mm to 5.0 mm, but the present embodiment is not
   limited thereto. Furthermore, the connection part of each first protrusion 123 of
   a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure may be connected with
   the plate A by adhering with a polymer adhesive material or by arc welding, so
   as to ensure the strength of the connection between each first protrusion 123
20 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure and the plate A.
   However, the connection manner between the first protrusion of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure and the plate A is also an
   illustration in the present embodiment, and the present embodiment is not
   limited thereto. Therefore, in the case that a part of each first protrusion 123 of
25 a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, connected with the one
   plate A, is a planar, area of a position, where each first protrusion 123 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure is connected with the one
   plate A, is increased, so that the plurality of first protrusions 123 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure are more firmly connected
30 to the one plate A and have a better supporting effect on the one plate A,
   which further increases the strength and stiffness of the composite board 100
   having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure.
       In another implementation of the present embodiment, a connection part of
35 each second protrusion 124 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure, connected with the other plate B, is also a planar. The specific shape
   of the connection part of the second protrusion 124 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure may also be a circular arched shape,
   thus the shape of the planar may also be a circle with a radius of 1.2 mm to 5.0
40 mm, but the present embodiment is not limited thereto. Furthermore, the
   connection part of each second protrusion 124 of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure may be connected with the plate B by
   adhering with a polymer adhesive material or by arc welding, so as to ensure
                                             14

   the strength of the connection between each second protrusion 124 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure and the plate B. However,
   the connection manner between the second protrusion of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure and the plate B is also an illustration in
 5 the present embodiment, and the present embodiment is not limited thereto.
   Therefore, in the case that a part of each second protrusion 124 of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, connected with the other
   plate B, is also a planar, area of a position, where each second protrusion 124
   of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure is connected with the
10 other plate B, is increased, such that the plurality of second protrusions 124 of
   a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure are more firmly
   connected to the other plate B and have a better supporting effect on the other
   plate B, which further increases the strength and stiffness of the composite
   board 100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge
15 arch structure.
       Reference can be made to Figs. 4 to 7 for understanding more structural
   details of the composite board 100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure.
      An embodiment of the present disclosure provides a composite board 100
20 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure, which includes N plates 110 and a supporting means 130.
       For the N plates 110, adjacent plates 110 are disposed side by side, and N
   is a positive integer greater than or equal to 2.
       For the supporting means 130, the supporting means 130 is mounted
25 between two adjacent plates 110; and the supporting means 130 includes a
   plurality of volute units 140 arranged in a preset manner.
      The volute unit 140 includes a first planar portion 141 and a connecting
   portion 143. The connecting portion 143 extends from the first planar portion
   141 in a direction away from the first planar portion 141.
30    The connecting portion 143 has a first concave 1431 and a second concave
   1432 facing away from each other. The first concave 1431 extends from a first
   position of an edge of the first planar portion 141 in the direction away from the
   first planar portion 141, and the first concave 1431 is recessed towards the
   second concave 1432. The second concave 1432 faces away from the first
35 concave 1431, and the second concave 1432 extends from a second position,
   opposite to the first position, of the edge of the first planar portion 141 in the
   direction away from the first planar portion 141, and the second concave 1432
   is recessed towards the first concave 1431.
      The vast majority of boards in the related art are single-layer metal plates. In
40 an implementation of the present disclosure, a volute unit 140 is disposed
   between adjacent plates 110, and the adjacent plates 110 are connected by
                                            15

   the volute unit 140. The composite board 100 having a bearing board of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure produced in such way has
   a light weight, and at the same time enables an external force to be uniformly
   dispersed through the volute unit 140. Therefore, the strength and stiffness of
 5 the composite board 100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure are ensured. Even in the case where the
   composite board has a large size, the flatness of the overall board surface of
   the composite board can be maintained, and the deformation of the board
   surface is prevented, so that the composite board 100 having a bearing board
10 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure can achieve wide
   application and application feasibility in various fields.
      Although the single-layer metal plates in the related art meet the current
   production performance requirements to a certain extent, it is difficult to
   achieve a large-scale and automated production in the post-processing of the
15 single-layer metal plates. Moreover, the single-layer metal plates have a low
   weight-to-strength ratio, resulting in a large amount of material consumption. In
   contrast, the composite board 100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure in the present solution is easy to process,
   has a superior strength, and has good economic benefits.
20    Optionally, adjacent volute units 140 are connected with each other. The
   volute units 140 connected with each other allow the supporting means 130 to
   have better integrity, so that the supporting means 130 itself has better
   strength and stiffness, so as to guarantee the stability and structural strength of
   the composite board 100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
25 full-dimensional bridge arch structure.
      It can be understood that, in other implementations of the present disclosure,
   the adjacent volute units 140 are spaced from each other, that is, the
   respective volute units 140 are disposed independently from each other.
      Furthermore, the volute unit 140 further includes a second planar portion
30 142, and ends of the second concave 1432 of adjacent plurality of volute units
   140, away from the first planar portions 141, are connected through the second
   planar portion 142.
      In this way, a side of the supporting means 130 having the first planar
   portion 141 and a side of the supporting means 130 facing away from the first
35 planar portion 141 are both integrated surfaces, thereby improving the
   structural strength and stability of the supporting means 130 itself.
      Optionally, the supporting means 130 is in a centrosymmetric pattern. It
   should be noted here that the supporting means 130 in a centrosymmetric
   pattern means that the second concave 1432 and the first concave 1431 are
40 concaves with a same recessed degree, and the first planar portion 141 and
   the second planar portion 142 have the same shape. Furthermore, the outer
                                             16

   surfaces of the adjacent plurality of volute units 140 collectively enclose an
   accommodating space capable of fitting with the first concaves 1431.
      Optionally, both the first planar portion 141 and the second planar portion
   142 are circular. The circular first planar portion 141 can facilitate the extension
 5 of the first concave 1431, and such a first planar portion 141 allows the
   connecting portion 143 to be firm under the application of force as compared
   with a square first planar portion 141. The second planar portion 142 has
   similar beneficial effects, which will not be described repeatedly here.
       Furthermore, as shown in the figures, the plurality of volute units 140 are
10 distributed in a rectangular array. In this way, one volute unit 140 can form a
   force-bearing unit with three surrounding adjoining volute units 140, with the
   force-bearing unit having a significant small distance. The composite board
   100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure constituted by such structured volute units 140 has a firmer structure
15 and is easier to process.
      As can also be seen from the figures, an end of the connecting portion 143,
   away from the first planar portion 141, includes four arcuate end surfaces 1411.
   The arcuate end surface 1411 is configured so that adjacent volute units 140
   are connected with each other through the arcuate end surfaces 1411; and the
20 four arcuate end surfaces 1411 are distributed symmetrically with respect to
   each other.
      The arcuate end surface 1411 ensures that the adjacent volute units 140
   can be more conveniently connected, and the arcuate end surface can be
   more suitable for bearing the force exerted on the supporting means 130, so
25 as to guarantee the structural firmness of the supporting means 130.
       Furthermore, adjacent arcuate end surfaces 1411 are connected by an
   inwardly recessed secondary concave 14311; and adjacent secondary
   concaves 14311 form an intersection line 150. Here, the intersection line 150
   acts like a reinforcement rib to enhance the structural strength of the volute
30 unit 140.
      Specifically, the intersection line 150 is located at a top of an arc of the
   arcuate end surface 1411. The advantage of this is that a force exerted on the
   first planar portion 141 can be accurately transmitted to the arc of the arcuate
   end surface 1411 to guarantee the firmness of the volute unit 140 under the
35 application of the force.
      Optionally, both the first concave 1431 and the second concave 1432 are
   smooth concave. It can be understood that in other embodiments of the
   present disclosure the first concave 1431 and the second concave 1432 may
   also have other surface structures.
40
                                             17

      First Implementation
      Referring to Figs. 8 and 9, in a first implementation of the present
   embodiment, in a practical application scenario, M may be 3, that is, the
   composite board 100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
 5 full-dimensional bridge arch structure is constituted by three plates 110 and
   two bearing boards 120. Specifically, the three plates 110 are sequentially
   arranged, and the two bearing boards 120 are respectively mounted in two
   bearing spaces formed by the three plates 110 arranged sequentially.
      Second Implementation
10    Referring to Figs. 1 and 2, in a second implementation of the present
   embodiment, in another practical application scenario, M may be 2, that is, the
   composite board 100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure is constituted by two plates 110 and one
   bearing board 120. Specifically, the two plates 110 are sequentially arranged,
15 and the one bearing board 120 is correspondingly mounted in a bearing space
   formed by the two plates 110 arranged sequentially.
      Second Embodiment
      Referring to Fig. 10, an embodiment of the present disclosure provides a
20 curtain wall 10 formed by the composite board having a bearing board of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure. The curtain wall 10
   formed by the composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure may be formed by splicing at least one
   composite board 100 having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
25 full-dimensional bridge arch structure.
      Specifically, when the number of the at least one composite board 100
   having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure is 1, the curtain wall 10 formed by the composite board having a
   bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure may be
30 constituted simply by packaging the composite board 100 having a bearing
   board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure. When the
   number of the at least one composite board 100 having a bearing board of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure is more than 1, edges of
   each of the at least one composite board 100 having a bearing board of a
35 volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure are spliced together with
   edges of each of the other composite boards 100 having a bearing board of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, and the splicing may be
   performed by, for example, adhering with a polymer adhesive material or arc
   welding, so that the at least one composite board 100 having a bearing board
40 of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure constitutes the
                                           18

   curtain wall 10 formed by the composite board having a bearing board of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure.
       Naturally, since the composite board 100 having a bearing board of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure has characteristics such
 5 as light weight, perfect flatness, perfect compressive strength, perfect strength
   and stiffness, etc., the curtain wall 10 formed by the composite board having a
   bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure is also
   accordingly provided with the characteristics such as light weight, perfect
   flatness, perfect compressive strength, perfect strength and stiffness, etc.
10    To sum up, the embodiments of the present disclosure provide a composite
   board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure and a curtain wall formed by the composite board. The composite
   board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure includes M plates and M-1 bearing boards. The M plates are
15 arranged sequentially, a bearing space between every two adjacent plates of
   the M plates is provided with a first bearing board, with each bearing space
   corresponding to one first bearing board. Each of the first bearing boards is
   any one of the M-1 bearing boards, and M is an integer not less than 2. The
   first bearing board has a first surface and a second surface opposite to each
20 other. The first surface has a plurality of first protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure which extend towards one plate of two
   adjacent plates to form a connection with the one plate, and the second
   surface has a plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure which extend towards the other plate of
25 the two adjacent plates to form a connection with the other plate.
      There is a bearing space between two adjacent plates, so that the composite
   board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure forms a hollow structure. Each bearing space is provided with one
   first bearing board, and the first surface of the first bearing board has a plurality
30 of first protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure
   which extend towards one plate of two adjacent plates to form a connection
   with the one plate, and the second surface of the first bearing board has a
   plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure which extend towards the other plate of the two adjacent plates to
35 form a connection with the other plate. Therefore, the composite board having
   a bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure is
   lightweight due to the hollow structure, and at the same time, the strength and
   stiffness of the composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure are ensured by the plurality of first
40 protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure and the
   plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch
   structure supporting the corresponding two adjacent plates. Even in the case
   where the composite board has a large size, the flatness of the overall board
                                             19

   surface of the composite board can be maintained, and the deformation of the
   board surface is prevented, so that the composite board having a bearing
   board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure can achieve
   wide application and application feasibility in various fields.
 5    The above description is merely illustrative of preferred embodiments of the
   present disclosure and is not intended to limit the present disclosure. It should
   be understood by those skilled in the art that various modifications and
   variations may be made to the present disclosure. Any modifications,
   equivalent alternatives, improvements and so on made within the spirit and
10 principle of the present disclosure should be embraced in the scope of
   protection of the present disclosure.
      Industrial Applicability
      The composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
15 full-dimensional bridge arch structure of embodiments of the present
   disclosure is lightweight due to a hollow structure, and at the same time, the
   strength and stiffness of the composite board having a bearing board of a
   volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure are ensured by a plurality
   of first protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure
20 and a plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge
   arch structure supporting the corresponding two adjacent plates. Even in the
   case where the composite board has a large size, the flatness of the overall
   board surface of the composite board can be maintained, and the deformation
   of the board surface is prevented, so that the composite board having a
25 bearing board of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure can
   achieve wide application and application feasibility in various fields. In
   summary, such a composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
   full-dimensional bridge arch structure is easy to fabricate, has perfect structural
   strength, and has perfect economic benefits.
30
                                           20

   Claims:
   1. A composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
       full-dimensional bridge arch structure, comprising M plates and M-1
       bearing boards, wherein the M plates are arranged sequentially, a bearing
 5     space between every two adjacent plates of the M plates is provided with
       a first bearing board, with each bearing space corresponding to one first
       bearing board, and each of the first bearing boards is any one of the M-1
       bearing boards, M is an integer not less than 2; and
              each of the first bearing boards has a first surface and a second
10     surface opposite to each other, the first surface has a plurality of first
       protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, with
       the first protrusions extending towards one plate of two adjacent plates to
       form a connection with the one plate, and the second surface has a
       plurality of second protrusions of a volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge
15     arch structure, with the second protrusions extending towards the other
       plate of the two adjacent plates to form a connection with the other plate.
   2.  A composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
       full-dimensional bridge arch structure, comprising:
              N plates, wherein adjacent plates of the N plates are disposed side
20     by side, and N is a positive integer greater than or equal to 2; and
              supporting means mounted between the two adjacent plates,
              wherein the supporting means comprises a plurality of volute units
       arranged in a preset manner,
              each of the plurality of volute units comprises a first planar portion
25     and a connecting portion, the connecting portion extending from the first
       planar portion in a direction away from the first planar portion,
              the connecting portion has a first concave and a second concave
       facing away from each other,
              the first concave extends from a first position of an edge of the first
30     planar portion in the direction away from the first planar portion, and the
       first concave is recessed towards the second concave, and
              the second concave extends from a second position of the edge of
       the first planar portion in the direction away from the first planar portion,
       and the second concave is recessed towards the first concave, the
35     second position opposite to the first position.
   3.  The composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
       full-dimensional bridge arch structure according to claim 2, wherein
                                            21

             the volute unit further comprises a second planar portion, and ends
      of the second concaves of adjacent volute units, away from the first planar
      portion, are connected through the second planar portion.
   4. The composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
 5    full-dimensional bridge arch structure according to any one of claims 2 to 3,
      wherein
             the plurality of volute units are distributed in an array, and preferably,
      the whole array is in a form of a rectangle.
   5. A curtain wall formed by a composite board having a bearing board of a
10    volute-shaped full-dimensional bridge arch structure, comprising the
      composite board having a bearing board of a volute-shaped
      full-dimensional bridge arch structure according to any one of claims 1 to
      4.
15
                                             22

1002198415
 <removed-date>
               Drawings
 <removed-apn>               Fig. 1
                          Fig. 2
                           1/6

1002198415
 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
               Fig. 3
               Fig. 4
                2/6

1002198415
 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
               Fig. 5
               Fig. 6
                3/6

               <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                          1002198415
4/6   Fig. 7

1002198415
 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
               Fig. 8
               Fig. 9
                5/6

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                           1002198415
6/6
      Fig. 10

