ABSTRACT
          A medical probe, including a flexible insertion tube having a distal end for
insertion into a body cavity and including one or more sensors mounted in the distal end,
and a handle coupled to a proximal end of the insertion tube. The medical probe also
includes a cable having a proximal end and a distal end, which is coupled to the handle so
as to receive signals conveyed through the insertion tube from the one or more sensors, and
a base unit coupled to the proximal end of the cable. The base unit contains a power
source, and a probe wireless transceiver coupled to receive the signals from the cable and
to communicate over a wireless connection with a control console.

                1/3
00   0   o
--     c LO
.  .
            Eco
    N               NL

                                                1
WIRELESS CATHETER WITH BASE WIRELESS TRANSCEIVER
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]          The present invention relates generally to invasive probes, and specifically
to producing an invasive probe fitted with a wireless transceiver.
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002]          A wide range of medical procedures involve placing objects, such as
sensors, tubes, catheters, dispensing devices and implants, within a patient's body.
Position sensing systems have been developed for tracking such objects. Magnetic
position sensing is one of the methods known in the art. In magnetic position sensing,
magnetic field generators are typically placed at known positions external to the patient. A
magnetic field sensor within the distal end of a probe generates electrical signals in
response to these magnetic fields, which are processed in order to determine the position
coordinates of the distal end of the probe. These methods and systems are described in
U.S. Patents 5,391,199, 6,690,963, 6,484,118, 6,239,724, 6,618,612 and 6,332,089, in PCT
International Publication WO 1996/005768, and in U.S. Patent Application Publications
2002/0065455 Al, 2003/0120150 Al and 2004/0068178 Al, whose disclosures are all
incorporated herein by reference.
[0003]          When placing a probe within the body, it may be desirable to have the distal
tip of the probe in direct contact with body tissue. The contact can be verified, for
example, by measuring the contact pressure between the distal tip and the body tissue.
U.S. Patent Application Publications 2007/0100332, 2009/0093806 and 2009/0138007,
whose disclosures are incorporated herein by reference, describe methods of sensing
contact pressure between the distal tip of a catheter and tissue in a body cavity using a
force sensor embedded in the catheter.
[0004]          Documents incorporated by reference in the present patent application are to
be considered an integral part of the application except that to the extent any terms are
defined in these incorporated documents in a manner that conflicts with the definitions

                                                2
made explicitly or implicitly in the present specification, only the definitions in the present
specification should be considered.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005]          There is provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention a medical probe, including a flexible insertion tube having a distal end for
insertion into a body cavity and including one or more sensors mounted in the distal end, a
handle coupled to a proximal end of the insertion tube, a cable having a proximal end and a
distal end, which is coupled to the handle so as to receive signals conveyed through the
insertion tube from the one or more sensors. The probe includes a base unit coupled to the
proximal end of the cable, and containing a power source, and a probe wireless transceiver
coupled to receive the signals from the cable and to communicate over a wireless
connection with a control console.
[0006]          In some embodiments, the power source may be selected from a list
including a battery, a power outlet and a wireless energy transfer system. In additional
embodiments, the medical probe may include a spherical orb configured to house the base
unit, and a socket configured to retain and allow a rotation of the spherical orb. In
alternative embodiments, the medical probe may include a catheter holder configured to
grasp the handle. In further embodiments, each of the one or more sensors may be selected
from a list consisting of an electrode, a force sensor and a position sensor. In additional
embodiments, the control console may include a console wireless transceiver and a
processor configured to receive, via the wireless connection, measurement signals from the
one or more sensors. In some embodiments, the medical probe may have no physical
connection to the console. In additional embodiments, the medical probe may include one
or more electrodes mounted on the distal end and coupled to the power source, and the
probe wireless transceiver is configured to receive, via the wireless connection, an ablation
signal from the processor, and the one or more electrodes are configured to perform an
ablation on a wall of the body cavity responsively to the ablation signal.
[0007]          There is also provided, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention, a method, including inserting, using a handle coupled to a proximal end of a

                                               3
flexible insertion tube of a medical probe, a distal end of the flexible insertion tube into a
body cavity, receiving, by a cable having a proximal end and a distal end which is coupled
to the handle, signals, conveyed through the insertion tube, from one or more sensors
mounted in the distal end of the insertion tube, and coupling a base unit to the proximal
end of the cable, the base unit containing a power source, and a probe wireless transceiver
coupled to receive the signals from the cable and to communicate over a wireless
connection with a control console.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0008]          The disclosure is herein described, by way of example only, with reference
to the accompanying drawings, wherein:
[0009]          Figure 1 is a schematic pictorial illustration of a medical system that
implements wireless communication, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention;
[0010]          Figure 2 is a schematic sectional view of a probe configured to
communicate with a control console over a wireless connection, in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention;
[0011]          Figures 3A and 3B are schematic pictorial illustrations of a fixture
configured to hold a base unit and a handle of the probe, in accordance with a first
embodiment of the present invention; and
[0012]          Figure 3C is a schematic pictorial illustration of the fixture configured to
hold the base unit, in accordance with a second embodiment of the present invention.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
OVERVIEW
[0013]          Various diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, such as cardiac ablation and
intracardiac electrical mapping, use an invasive probe, such as a catheter, whose distal tip

                                                4
is fitted with at least one electrode. The electrode is typically operated when the probe is
pressed against a wall (also referred to herein as tissue) of a body cavity. In these
procedures, it is usually important to ascertain both the precise location of the probe in the
body cavity, and the force that the distal tip is exerting on the body cavity wall. Therefore,
some catheters comprise position sensors for ascertaining the location of the distal tip and
force sensors for measuring the force exerted by the probe on intra-body tissue, such as the
endocardium.
[0014]           Embodiments of the present invention form a "wireless catheter" by
incorporating a wireless transceiver into the catheter, thereby reducing (and possibly
eliminating) the number of physical links between the patient and a console. Since space
limitations may preclude mounting the wireless transceiver and a power source in the
catheter's handle, a base unit containing a transceiver-battery combination can be coupled
to a proximal end of the handle by a cable.
[0015]           In some embodiments, a fixture can be configured to hold a housing for the
base unit and/or the handle. The fixture may include a holder where the operator can
"park" the handle when the catheter is not being used. Additionally, the base unit housing
can be configured as a spherical orb, and the fixture may include a socket configured to
retain and allow a rotation of the spherical orb. The socket-orb configuration can function
as a ball joint, within which the base unit is able to swivel, so that when the catheter holder
is removed from the mount and manipulated, the cable does not restrict the motion of the
handle.
[0016]           Incorporating a wireless transceiver into a catheter system can help reduce
clutter resulting from physical connections between the catheter and the console, thereby
enhancing safety during a medical procedure. By eliminating the need for cabling between
the catheter and the console, embodiments of the present invention can make it simple to
add additional wireless catheters into an on-going procedure, rather than adding catheters
requiring a physical connection to the console.

                                                5
SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
[0017]          Figure 1 is a schematic pictorial illustration of a medical system 20 that
implements wireless communication, in accordance with an embodiment of the present
invention. System 20 may be based, for example, on the CARTO TM system, produced by
Biosense Webster Inc. (Diamond Bar, California). System 20 comprises a probe 22, such
as a catheter, and a control console 24. In the embodiment described hereinbelow, it is
assumed that probe 22 is used for diagnostic or therapeutic treatment, such as for mapping
electrical potentials in a heart 26 or performing ablation of heart tissue. Alternatively,
probe 22 may be used, mutatis mutandis, for other therapeutic and/or diagnostic purposes
in the heart or in other body organs.
[0018]          Probe 22 comprises a flexible insertion tube 28, and a handle 30 coupled to
the proximal end of the insertion tube. When probe 22 is not being used, handle 30 can be
stored in a probe holder 94 of a fixture 90, which may typically be affixed to a mounting
bar 98. The configuration of fixture 90 and mounting bar 98 are described in detail
hereinbelow. By removing then manipulating handle 30, operator 32 can insert probe 22
through the vascular system of a patient 34 so that a distal end 36 of probe 22 enters a
chamber of heart 26.
[0019]          In the configuration shown in Figure 1, multiple probes, each generally
similar to probe 22, can be stored in a corresponding multiple of fixtures, each generally
similar to fixture 90, affixed to mounting bar 98. During a medical procedure, an operator
32, such as a cardiologist, can select a given probe by removing its handle from its probe
holder.
[0020]           System 20 typically uses magnetic position sensing to determine position
coordinates of distal end 36 inside heart 26. Console 24 comprises a driver circuit 40
which drives field generators 42 to generate magnetic fields within the body of patient 34.
Typically, field generators 42 comprise coils, which are placed below the patient's torso at
known positions external to patient 34. These coils generate magnetic fields in a
predefined working volume that contains heart 26. A magnetic field sensor 44 within
distal end 36 of probe 22 (sensor 44 is shown in more detail in Figure 2) generates

                                                6
electrical signals in response to the magnetic fields from the coils, thereby enabling
console 24 to determine the position of distal end 36 within the chamber.
[0021]          Although in the present example system 20 measures the position of distal
end 36 using magnetic-based sensors, other position tracking techniques may be used (e.g.,
impedance-based sensors). Magnetic position tracking techniques are described, for
example, in U.S. Patents 5,391,199 and 6,690,963 referenced above, and in in U.S. Patents
5,443,489, 6,788,967, 5,558,091, 6,172,499 and 6,177,792, whose disclosures are
incorporated herein by reference. Impedance-based position tracking techniques are
described, for example, in U.S. Patents 5,983,126, 6,456,864 and 5,944,022, whose
disclosures are incorporated herein by reference.
[0022]          A signal processor 46 processes these signals in order to determine the
position coordinates of distal end 36, typically including both location and orientation
coordinates. The method of position sensing described hereinabove is implemented in the
above-mentioned CARTO TM system and is described in detail in the patents and patent
applications cited above.
[0023]          Signal processor 46 typically comprises a general-purpose computer, with
suitable front end and interface circuits for receiving signals from probe 22 and controlling
the other components of console 24. Processor 46 may be programmed in software to
carry out the functions that are described herein. The software may be downloaded to
console 24 in electronic form, over a network, for example, or it may be provided on non
transitory tangible media, such as optical, magnetic or electronic memory media.
Alternatively, some or all of the functions of processor 46 may be carried out by dedicated
or programmable digital hardware components.
[0024]          A probe wireless transceiver 48 coupled to probe 22 is configured to
communicate with processor 40 over a wireless connection via a console wireless
transceiver 50. For example, wireless transceivers 48 and 50 may comprise Bluetooth or
Wireless Universal Serial Bus (USB) transceivers. Based on the signals received from
probe 22 (via wireless transceiver 50) and other components of system 20, processor 46
drives a display 52 to present operator 32 with an image 54 showing the position of distal

                                                7
end 36 in the patient's body, as well as status information and guidance regarding the
procedure that is in progress.
[0025]          In the present embodiment, processor 46 monitors measurements received
from position sensor 44 and a force sensor 56 within distal end 36 (force sensor 56 is
shown in more detail in Figure 2), typically during periods in which the catheter is believed
to be pressing against endocardial tissue of heart 26. Processor 46 stores data representing
image 54 in a memory 58. In some embodiments, operator 32 can manipulate image 54
using one or more input devices 60.
[0026]          Alternatively or additionally, system 20 may comprise an automated
mechanism (not shown) for maneuvering and operating probe 22 within the body of patient
34. Such mechanisms are typically capable of controlling both the longitudinal motion
(advance/retract) of probe 22 and transverse motion (deflection) of distal end 36 of the
probe. In such embodiments, processor 46 generates a control input for controlling the
motion of probe 22 based on the signals provided by the magnetic field sensor in the probe.
[0027]          Although Figure 1 shows a particular system configuration, other system
configurations can also be employed to implement embodiments of the present invention,
and are thus considered to be within the spirit and scope of this invention. For example,
the methods described hereinbelow may be applied using position sensors of types other
than the magnetic field sensor described above, such as impedance-based or ultrasonic
position sensors. The term "position transducer" as used herein refers to an element
mounted on probe 22 which causes console 24 to receive signals indicative of the
coordinates of the element. The position sensor may thus comprise a receiver on the
probe, which generates a position signal to the control unit based on energy received by the
sensor; or it may comprise a transmitter, emitting energy that is sensed by a receiver
external to the probe. Furthermore, the methods described hereinbelow may similarly be
applied in therapeutic and diagnostic applications using not only catheters, but also probes
of other types, both in the heart and in other body organs and regions.
[0028]          Other elements of system 20 illustrated in Figure 1, such as a base unit 70,
are described in more detail below.

                                                 8
[0029]          Figure 2 is a schematic sectional view of probe 22, in accordance with an
embodiment of the present invention. Specifically, Figure 2 shows functional elements of
probe 22 and base unit 70 coupled to the probe. Base unit 70 comprises wireless
transceiver 48 and a battery 72. While the example in Figure 2 shows battery 72 as a
power source, other power sources are considered to be within the spirit and scope of the
present invention. For example, the power source may comprise a wired connection to
either a battery external to the base unit or a standard alternating current (AC) power
outlet. Alternatively, power can be conveyed to the probe via a wireless energy transfer
system.
[0030]          An ablation electrode 74 at a distal tip 38 of the probe is typically made of a
metallic material, such as a platinum/iridium alloy or another suitable material.
Alternatively, multiple electrodes (not shown) may be positioned along the length of the
probe.
[0031]          Position sensor 44 transmits a signal to console 24 that is indicative of the
location coordinates of distal end 36. Position sensor 44 may comprise one or more
miniature coils, and typically comprises multiple coils oriented along different axes.
Alternatively, position sensor 44 may comprise either another type of magnetic sensor, an
electrode which serves as a position sensor, or position sensors of other types, such as
impedance-based or ultrasonic position sensors. Although Figure 2 shows a probe with a
single position sensor, embodiments of the present invention may utilize probes with more
than one position sensor.
[0032]          In an alternative embodiment, the roles of position sensor 44 and magnetic
field generators 42 may be reversed. In other words, driver circuit 40 may drive a
magnetic field generator in distal end 36 to generate one or more magnetic fields. The
coils in generator 42 may be configured to sense the fields and generate signals indicative
of the amplitudes of the components of these magnetic fields. Processor 46 receives and
processes these signals in order to determine the position coordinates of distal end 36
within heart 26.

                                                9
[0033]          Force sensor 56 measures a force applied by distal tip 38 to the endocardial
tissue of heart 26 by conveying a signal to the console that is indicative of the force exerted
by the distal tip on the intra-body tissue. In one embodiment, the force sensor may
comprise a magnetic field transmitter and receiver connected by a spring in distal end 36,
and may generate an indication of the force based on measuring the deflection of the
spring. Further details of this sort of probe and force sensor are described in U.S. Patent
Application Publications 2009/0093806 and 2009/0138007 referenced above.
Alternatively, distal end 36 may comprise another type of force sensor.
[0034]          Handle 30 is configured to be grasped by operator 32, and is coupled to a
proximal end 76 of insertion tube 28 and a distal end 78 of a cable 80. A proximal end 82
of cable 80 is coupled to base unit 70. The distal end of cable 80 is coupled to position
sensor 44, force sensor 56 and electrode 74 via a connection 84 that is contained within
insertion tube 28 and handle 30. While (for illustrative purposes) Figure 2 shows a single
connection 84 coupling the electrode and the sensors to cable 80, there are typically
multiple connections contained within the insertion tube and the handle. Connection 84
typically comprises a metallic conductor and/or an optical fiber.
[0035]          In operation, cable 80 receives signals from the position sensor, the force
sensor and the electrode (when measuring electrical potentials values in the heart) that are
conveyed through insertion tube 28 (i.e., via connection 84). Wireless transceiver 48
receives the signals from cable 80, and communicates the signals to console 24 over a
wireless connection.
[0036]          In some embodiments wireless transceiver 48 can be configured to receive
wireless signals to control an ablation performed by electrode 74. During an ablation
procedure, processor 46 conveys, via the wireless connection, an ablation signal to probe
22. Upon wireless transceiver 48 receiving the ablation signal, the probe performs the
ablation by conveying an electrical current to electrode 74.
[0037]          Figures 3A and 3B are schematic pictorial illustrations of fixture 90 that is
configured to hold base unit 70 and handle 30, in accordance with a first embodiment of
the current invention. In the configuration shown in Figures 3A and 3B, base unit 70 is

                                                10
configured as a spherical orb that houses wireless transmitter 48 and battery 72, and fixture
90 comprises a socket 92, probe holder 94 and a clamp 96. Clamp 96 can be used to affix
fixture 90 to mounting bar 98 that is typically within reach of the operator. As shown in
Figure 1, multiple wireless probes can be made accessible to operator 32 by affixing
multiple fixtures to mounting bar 98.
[0038]          Probe holder 94 is configured to grasp handle 30 when probe 22 is not being
used. Socket 92 is configured to retain spherical base unit 70, and allow a rotation of the
spherical base unit within the socket, so that the sphere rotating in the socket acts in a
manner similar to a ball joint. In other words, when operator 32 removes handle 30 from
holder 94 and manipulates the probe, the ball joint configuration of the sphere and the
socket does not restrict the motion of the handle.
[0039]          Figure 3C is a schematic pictorial illustration of a fixture 100 configured to
hold base unit 70, in accordance with a second embodiment of the present invention. In
contrast to fixture 90, fixture 100 holds only base unit 70. In the configuration shown in
Figure 3C, a separate catheter holding fixture (not shown) can be used to grasp handle 30.
[0040]          Because of power capacity limitations of battery 72, the wireless catheter
may not be capable of relatively high power/high energy operation, such as is needed for
an ablation procedure. In some embodiments, as described supra, electrical current can be
conveyed from an external power source to probe 22 via a wired connection or a wireless
energy transfer system that is incorporated into fixture 90 or 100, and/or the mounting bar,
thereby eliminating restrictions caused by the current being supplied by battery 72.
[0041]          It will be appreciated that the embodiments described above are cited by
way of example, and that the present invention is not limited to what has been particularly
shown and described hereinabove. Rather, the scope of the present invention includes both
combinations and subcombinations of the various features described hereinabove, as well
as variations and modifications thereof which would occur to persons skilled in the art
upon reading the foregoing description and which are not disclosed in the prior art.

                                               11
[0042]          Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the
context requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
[0043]          The reference to any prior art in this specification is not and should not be
taken as an acknowledgement or any form of suggestion that the prior art forms part of the
common general knowledge in Australia.
[0044]          This application is a divisional application from Australian Application
2013206431. The full disclosure of AU2013206431 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                                12
CLAIMS
1.        A medical probe, comprising:
          a flexible insertion tube having a distal end for insertion into a body cavity and
comprising one or more sensors mounted in the distal end;
          a handle coupled to a proximal end of the insertion tube;
          a cable having a proximal end and a distal end, which is coupled to the handle so
as to receive signals conveyed through the insertion tube from the one or more sensors; and
          a base unit coupled to the proximal end of the cable, and containing:
          a power source; and
          a probe wireless transceiver coupled to receive the signals from the cable and to
communicate over a wireless connection with a control console.
2.        The medical probe according to claim 1, wherein the power source is selected
from a list comprising a battery, a power outlet and a wireless energy transfer system.
3.        The medical probe according to claim 1, and comprising a spherical orb
configured to house the base unit, and a socket configured to retain and allow a rotation of
the spherical orb.
4.        The medical probe according to claim 1, and comprising a catheter holder
configured to grasp the handle.
5.        The medical probe according to claim 1, wherein each of the one or more sensors
is selected from a list consisting of an electrode, a force sensor and a position sensor.
6.        The medical probe according to claim 1, wherein the control console comprises a
console wireless transceiver and a processor configured to receive, via the wireless
connection, measurement signals from the one or more sensors.
7.        The medical probe according to claim 1, wherein the medical probe has no
physical connection to the console.

                                               13
8.       The medical probe according to claim 1, and comprising one or more electrodes
mounted on the distal end and coupled to the power source.
9.       The medical probe according to claim 8, wherein the probe wireless transceiver is
configured to receive, via the wireless connection, an ablation signal from the processor,
and the one or more electrodes are configured to perform an ablation on a wall of the body
cavity responsively to the ablation signal.
10.      A method, including:
         inserting, using a handle coupled to a proximal end of a flexible insertion tube of a
medical probe, a distal end of the flexible insertion tube into a body cavity;
         receiving, by a cable having a proximal end and a distal end which is coupled to
the handle, signals, conveyed through the insertion tube, from one or more sensors
mounted in the distal end of the insertion tube; and
         coupling a base unit to the proximal end of the cable, the base unit containing:
         a power source, and
         a probe wireless transceiver coupled to receive the signals from the cable and to
communicate over a wireless connection with a control console.
11.      The method according to claim 10, wherein the power source is selected from a
list comprising a battery, a power outlet and a wireless energy transfer system.
12.      The method according to claim 10, and comprising configuring the base unit as a
spherical orb, and retaining the spherical orb in a socket configured to allow a rotation of
the spherical orb.
13.      The method according to claim 10, and comprising storing the probe in a catheter
holder configured to grasp the handle.
14.      The method according to claim 10, wherein each of the one or more sensors is
selected from a list consisting of an electrode, a force sensor and a position sensor.
15.      The method according to claim 10, and comprising receiving, by the control
console via the wireless connection, measurement signals from the one or more sensors.

                                              14
16.      The method according to claim 10, wherein the medical probe has no physical
connection to the console.
17.      The method according to claim 10, and comprising mounting one or more
electrodes on the distal end, and coupling the one or more electrodes to the power source.
18.      The method according to claim 17, and comprising receiving, by the probe via the
wireless connection, an ablation signal from the console, and performing, by the one or
more electrodes, an ablation on a wall of the body cavity responsively to the ablation
signal.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
