                                                 - 19
                                              Abstract
                                        Main illustration: Fig. 4
The invention relates to a reversing system (1) for telescopic sights, having a guide sleeve (10),
an outer sleeve (20) and a mount (30) that has an optical element (32), the outer sleeve (20)
being supported in an axially fixed and rotatable manner on the guide sleeve (10), and an inner
cam slot (11) being realized in the guide sleeve (10), and an outer cam slot (21) being realized
in the outer sleeve (20), the mount (30) being supported in an axially displaceable manner in the
guide sleeve (10) and having a guide pin (50) that projects into the inner cam slot (11) and the
outer cam slot (21), the guide pin (50) having a carrier shaft (51), on which are seated a first
pivot bearing (60) and a second pivot bearing (61), the first pivot bearing (60) being guided
within the outer cam slot (21), and the second pivot bearing (61) being guided within the inner
cam slot (11), the first pivot bearing (60) and/or the second pivot bearing (61) having, in the
centre thereof, an inner ring (62, 63) that sits on the carrier shaft (51) and an outer ring (64, 65)
that is rotatably supported on the inner ring (62, 63). The invention additionally relates to a
telescopic sight having such a reversing system (1).

                                                                                          03
                                                                                          C)
                                                                                          C)
                                                                                          63
                                                                                          C)
                                                                                           -4
                                     C)3
                                                                                      C)
                          CA                                                         C
                   C.0~
03)
                  OCO)                                                        CY
                                                                                 CY)
                                                                                  CY)
                                                                                      0y)
                     ------
                   ----         ---
                         --------    ---------
                                 ------                   -----------
                                             ---------------
                   AL  ------
                   -----    ---   -----
                                 --  - --  --
                                            ---   -------
                                                ----     - - ----
     --------------
    --            ------I- -----  ----  ---------------           ---- ------
    A --- ----        -- -- ---  ---- --   --  ---  --  ----.-

                            Australian Patents Act 1990
              ORIGINAL COMPLETE SPECIFICATION
                             STANDARD PATENT
                                      Invention Title
  Reversing system for telescopic sights, and telescopic sight having such a reversing
                                          system
The following statement is a full description of this invention, including the best method
                           of performing it known to me/us:-

                                                   - la
   The invention relates to a reversing system for telescopic sights, according to the preamble of
   claim 1, and to a telescopic sight having such a reversing system, as claimed in claim 14.
   Telescopic sights are used in hunting and for military purposes to aim weapons at distant
 5 targets. For that purpose they have a lens arrangement, within a housing, that magnifies a
   target object. As a result, however, the viewing angle is greatly limited, and it may be difficult to
   aim at targets that are relatively close. To make it possible to take aim at these latter targets
   also, the prior art offers variable magnification (zoom). Moreover, the image of the sighted
   target is laterally inverted in the objective plane and is upside down, and must therefore be
 0 corrected.
   Technical implementation of this correction is effected by using a reversing system within the
   telescopic sight. The term reversing system is used in the rest of the application, and is
   synonymous with the designation reversing device. The reversing system allows axial
 5 displacement of at least one optical element within the reversing system, but as a rule also
   allows independent, or defined, displacement of two optical elements. The optical elements in
   this case include, inter alia, lenses, cemented lenses and reticles. This causes the image to be
   righted and reproduced in the ocular plane in which it is viewed. In present-day telescopic
   sights, the reticle is provided in the objective plane or ocular plane, and the reversing system is
 0 disposed in an inner tube of the telescopic sight.
   Such a reversing system is generally composed of an inner guide sleeve having an inner cam
   slot, in particular a linear cam slot, and of an external sleeve having a first outer cam slot, and
   optionally a second outer cam slot, the outer sleeve being supported in an axially fixed and
25 rotatable manner on the inner sleeve. The two outer cam slots each describe a curved path.
   Furthermore, a first and a second mount, each having a lens, are supported in a displaceable
   manner in the guide sleeve. In this case, a first guide pin is connected to the first mount and is
   disposed, at least partly, within the linear cam slot and the first outer cam slot. In like manner, a
   second guide pin is connected to the second mount and disposed, at least partly, within the
30 linear cam slot and the second outer cam slot. The spacings between the lenses of the optical
   reversing system and the objective plane of the telescopic sight can then be varied. As a result,
   the magnification can be altered and the image is not upside down.
   It is critical in this case that the lenses be disposed very accurately at the intended positions, so
35 that a sharp image can be produced for the marksman. Positional deviations of even 10-5 are

                                                     -2
   detrimental to the image quality and result in parallax errors. In other words, the target mark
   and the actual projectile impact point deviate from each other. For this reason, all movable
   parts must be designed with very narrow tolerances, and they must have virtually no clearance
   in relation to each other. Frequently, it is even the case that an over-size is selected in order to
 5 preclude clearance. This results in the reversing system being difficult to adjust. The contact
   regions between the guide pins and cam slots are especially critical.
   Metal screws, inter alia, are known in the prior art for the purpose of engaging the guide pins in
   the cam slots. The outer sleeve having the curved-path cam slots is likewise composed of
 0 metal. In the case of such a combination of a metal screw and a metal outer sleeve, there is a
   certain intrinsic clearance, as a result of which the metal screw can be displaced in the curved
   path. However, such an intrinsic clearance has the disadvantage that the reversing lenses are
   not aligned in a defined manner, and this may cause a parallax deviation. If the clearance is
   reduced to a minimum, weather-related thermal fluctuations cause jamming, owing to the
 5 thermal expansion of the components. This not only prevents instantaneous adjustability, but
   also results in permanent damage if force is applied by the marksman. These problems occur
   especially frequently at very low temperatures, e.g. -40 2C.
   DE 10 2011 000 404 Al discloses a reversing system for telescopic sights, which comprises a
 0 guide sleeve, disposed in which there is a linear cam slot, the outer sleeve, having an outer cam
   slot, being supported in an axially fixed and rotatable manner on the guide sleeve. Supported in
   an axially displaceable manner in the guide sleeve there is a mount, having an optical element
   and having a guide pin that passes through the linear cam slot and the outer cam slot. The
   guide pin has a first sleeve and a second sleeve, the two sleeves being supported on a
25 common shaft, and the first sleeve being movable within the outer cam slot, and the second
   sleeve being movable within the linear cam slot. This design has the disadvantage of high
   frictional forces, which to an extent cause the sleeves to slide in the cam slots, in particular at
   very low ambient temperatures. This causes wear, resulting in decreasingly precise adjustment
   and, in exceptional cases, in dust particles in the lens system.
30
   It is therefore the object of the invention to develop a reversing system that can be used, in a
   non-destructive and convenient manner, in a very wide spectrum of temperatures, and in
   particular also at very low temperatures, without incurring losses of image quality and parallax
   accuracy. The solution should allow simple production and installation, and should be

                                                    -3
   inexpensive and achieve a long service life. Preferably, the solution should also be suitable for
   enabling telescopic sights to be retrofitted.
   The main features of the invention are specified in the characterizing portion of claim 1 and in
 5 claim 14. Developments are disclosed in claims 2 to 13.
   The invention relates to a reversing system for telescopic sights, having a guide sleeve, an
   outer sleeve and a mount that has an optical element, the outer sleeve being supported in an
   axially fixed and rotatable manner on the guide sleeve, and an inner cam slot, preferably a
 0 linear cam slot, being realized in the guide sleeve, and an outer cam slot being realized in the
   outer sleeve, the mount being supported in an axially displaceable manner in the guide sleeve
   and having a guide pin that projects into or passes through the inner cam slot and the outer cam
   slot, the guide pin having a carrier shaft, on which are seated a first pivot bearing and a second
   pivot bearing, the first pivot bearing being guided within the outer cam slot, and the second pivot
 5 bearing being guided within the inner cam slot, and the first pivot bearing and/or the second
   pivot bearing having, in the centre thereof, an inner ring that sits on the carrier shaft and an
   outer ring that is rotatably supported on the inner ring.
   Owing to the provision of pivot bearings, during displacement particularly little friction is caused
 0 by the cam slots when the outer sleeve is rotated relative to the inner sleeve. Owing to the
   provision of two pivot bearings, the latter can rotate at differing rates, and if necessary also in
   opposite directions. As a result, the shearing forces acting on the pivot bearings are slight, and
   material damage is avoided in an effective manner. Moreover, only slight adjusting forces are
   needed, and the reversing device does not become jammed, even at very low temperatures.
25 The adhesion of the pivot bearing to the contacted cam slot is greatest in the region at which
   the greatest force is introduced from one of the cam slots into one of the pivot bearings. When
   the outer sleeve is rotated relative to the guide sleeve, the pivot bearing can now roll over this
   region, whereas is slips over the cam slot in regions of lesser load, in particular on the opposite
   side.
30
   By means of a pivot bearing having an outer ring, the latter, in particular, is guided in the inner
   cam slot or outer cam slot. It will then rotate on the inner ring. The inner ring and outer ring can
   then be supported on each other with the least possible frictional forces. The carrier shaft
   should be aligned transversely, preferably perpendicularly, in relation to the displacement axis
35 of the mount. This simplifies precise and space-saving movement kinematics between the

                                                     -4
   outer sleeve, the inner sleeve and the mount. In most telescopic sights, the carrier shaft is then
   also aligned transversely, preferably perpendicularly, in relation to the optical axis of the
   telescopic sight.
 5 The outer cam slot should be a curved path. This has at least a form similar to that of a spiral,
   but for the most part without a constant pitch. Consequently, the advance of the mount having
   the optical element is not constant per unit of rotation. By means of the curved path, the
   adjustment behavior can thus be adapted to the optical effects of the lens, depending on the
   position of arrangement. A shallow gradient may be provided in sensitive positions, and a
 0 steeper gradient in less sensitive positions. Excessively steep gradients are to be avoided,
   however, since these may result in self-locking of the reversing system. The marksman can
   now comfortably use the adjustment range, and can continuously rotate an adjusting wheel
   provided for this purpose, without the magnification being altered at a different rate, or abruptly.
 5 As optical elements, lenses, cemented lenses or reticles, inter alia, may be disposed in the
   mount.
   According to a more particular development, the first and the second pivot bearing are clamped
   in, preferably in a rotationally fixed manner, in the or their centre, between a stop of the carrier
 0 shaft and the mount. Rotational fixedness is desirable only in the case of normal operational
   movement forces of the reversing system, but not absolute rotational fixedness.
   The stop is preferably disposed at a first end of the carrier shaft. The support shaft can thus be
   of a short design, without projecting far out of the outer cam slot. In a special embodiment, a
25 tool opening for a rotary tool is realized in the carrier shaft, at the first end. The guide pin can
   thereby be easily mounted on the mount. Preferably, the tool opening is a hexagonal opening.
   Such an opening allows ease of mounting. Also possible, however, are alternative tool
   openings for other rotary tools, such as slot screwdrivers, crosshead screwdrivers or Torx
   screwdrivers. Furthermore, the tool opening preferably projects into a region that is radially
30 inside the first pivot bearing. Consequently, a particularly short guide pin is achieved, which
   does not project far out of the outer cam slot.
   In the case of a special embodiment, the stop is realized by a top shoulder realized from the
   carrier shaft. This allows a stable, compact design of the carrier shaft, which may be similar to a

                                                     -5
   screw. In particular, the top shoulder may be realized in the form of a disk. It is then particularly
   flat and compact.
   An optional feature consists in that the carrier shaft realizes a cover plate, in particular at its first
 5 end, the cover plate being disposed at a distance apart from the first pivot bearing. The first
   pivot bearing is thereby protected. For this purpose, the cover plate spans at least 2/3,
   preferably at least 3/4, and particularly preferably at least 4/5 of the end face of the first pivot
   bearing. The end face is to be viewed, in particular, from an axial direction of the carrier shaft.
   A possibility is an embodiment in which the cover plate has a circular circumference. The
 0 optional designs may result in a design in which the stop and the cover plate are part of the top
   shoulder at the first end of the carrier shaft. Preferably, the top shoulder is composed of the
   stop and the cover plate.
   For the reversing system to be of a design that is as compact as possible, the top shoulder
 5 should project into the outer cam slot, in particular at least slightly. To enable the first pivot
   bearing to be guided in an effective manner in the outer cam slot, it is useful for the top shoulder
   to project out of the outer cam slot. It is particularly to be preferred if the top shoulder projects
   at least 2/3 out of the outer cam slot. Additionally, it is to be preferred if the length of the top
   shoulder is less than the width of the first pivot bearing, in particular in the axial direction of the
 0 carrier shaft.
   In the case of a special embodiment, the outer diameter of the cover plate is less than the outer
   diameter of the first pivot bearing. This allows the cover plate to go into the outer cam slot,
   without them colliding with each other.
25
   A simple, compact design can optionally be achieved if the outer diameter of the first pivot
   bearing corresponds to the outer diameter of the second pivot bearing.
   An inexpensive basic shape of the carrier shaft is achieved if the inner diameter of the first pivot
30 bearing corresponds to the inner diameter of the second pivot bearing. This advantage is also
   achieved by a development in which the first and the second pivot bearing are seated on a
   common cylindrical surface of the carrier shaft.
   According to an optional embodiment, at a second end the carrier shaft has a thread, preferably
35 an external thread, that is screw-connected to a counter-thread, preferably an internal thread,

                                                     -6
   on the mount. The guide pin can thereby be permanently fixedly connected to the mount, but
   can also be demounted again for servicing. Particularly preferably, the clamping of the first and
   second pivot bearing is effected by the screwed connection of the thread to the counter-thread.
   A defined tightening torque may be provided for this purpose. A fixed, precise connection is
 5 then achieved.
   According to a particular design, the first and/or second pivot bearing is/are a rolling bearing,
   preferably a ball bearing or cylindrical roller bearing. With such a bearing, a particularly low
   friction is achieved, and the reversing system can be adjusted smoothly and with precision. In
 0 the case of a rolling bearing, rolling bodies, in particular balls or rollers, preferably balls or
   cylindrical rollers, are disposed between the inner ring and the outer ring.
   It is furthermore provided in a special embodiment that the outer ring or outer rings is/are
   supported, in the axial direction of the carrier shaft, at a distance apart from adjacent
 5 components. The outer rings are consequently exposed at their end faces, and have no friction
   there. They thus rotate very smoothly on the inner ring or rings.
   A preferred embodiment is that in which the first and the second pivot bearing do not engage in
   each other along the carrier shaft, or do not overlap/intersect along the carrier shaft. This
 0 makes it possible, for example, for inexpensive standard rolling bearings to be used as pivot
   bearings.
   Also suitable is a dimensioning in which the first pivot bearing is narrower than the outer cam
   slot. As a result, along the carrier shaft, space is kept clear next to the pivot bearing for air gaps
25 or further components.
   It is additionally to be preferred if the second pivot bearing is designed so as to be narrower
   than the inner cam slot. This likewise creates space, along the carrier shaft, next to the pivot
   bearing for air gaps or further components.
30
   Space, and in addition low friction, can furthermore be achieved by a dimensioning according to
   which an annular air gap is realized between the inner sleeve and the outer sleeve, over the
   length of the inner cam slot. The air gap is preferably narrower than the inner cam slot, or than
   the width of the second pivot bearing. The reversing system therefore remains compact. The
35 inner and the outer sleeve are preferably rotatably supported on each other in front of and

                                                      -7
   behind the inner cam slot. Consequently, during rotation, there is little friction between the inner
   and the outer sleeve.
   Preferably, the outer diameter of the first pivot bearing is less than the width of the outer cam
 5 slot, in such a manner that there is a clearance fit, in particular a clearance fit with very little
   clearance. Also to be preferred is a dimensioning in which the outer diameter of the second
   pivot bearing is less than the width of the inner cam slot, in such a manner that there is a
   clearance fit, in particular a clearance fit with very little clearance. As a result, respectively,
   precise guiding of the mount and a high image quality are achieved. In addition, the respective
 0 bearing bears against only one side of the cam slot, and can roll over this contact point. The
   opposite side rotates freely past the surface of the cam slot. Furthermore, the pivot bearings
   may be seated with an interference fit, in particular a slight interference fit, on the guide pin.
   This enables them to be correctly positioned.
 5 In a special development, in which the first pivot bearing and the second pivot bearing
   respectively have an inner ring seated on the carrier shaft and an outer ring rotatably supported
   on the inner ring, it is provided that the outer rings of the first and second pivot bearing do not
   touch. This prevents friction from occurring between the outer rings in the case of unequal
   rotational speeds.
 0
   In the case of a particular variant, in which the first pivot bearing and the second pivot bearing
   respectively have an inner ring seated on the carrier shaft and an outer ring rotatably supported
   on the inner ring, it is provided that a first spacer, preferably an annular spacing washer or
   spacing ring, is disposed between the inner rings of the first and the second pivot bearing. The
25 outer rings can thus be fixed at a distance apart from each other.
   A particular development may consist in that the first spacer has a greater spacing distance in
   the centre than further outward. The inner rings of the pivot bearings are therefore kept apart,
   and the outer, thinner, part of the first spacer projects between the pivot bearings without
30 touching them. In order that the first spacer does not collide with the inner or outer sleeve, the
   outer diameter of the first spacer should be less than the greater diameter from the group
   composed of the outer diameter of the first pivot bearing and the outer diameter of the second
   pivot bearing. Moreover, it is to be preferred if the outer diameter of the first spacer is greater
   than the lesser diameter from the group composed of the inner diameter of the outer ring of the

                                                    -8
   first pivot bearing and the inner diameter of the outer ring of the second pivot bearing. With
   such a dimensioning, the greater part of the end face of the larger pivot bearing can be covered.
   Precise and simple installation can be achieved if the inner diameter of the first spacer
 5 corresponds substantially to the inner diameter of the first pivot bearing and/or of the second
   pivot bearing. The spacer can then be supported on a common circumferential surface of the
   carrier shaft, such as one or both of the pivot bearings.
   In the case of a reversing system in which the second pivot bearing has an inner ring seated on
 0 the carrier shaft and an outer ring rotatably supported on the inner ring, an optional embodiment
   provides that a second spacer, preferably an annular spacing washer, a spacing ring or a
   spacer sleeve, is disposed between the inner ring of the second pivot bearing and the mount.
   Optionally, the second spacer may also be realized by a shoulder on the mount. The outer ring
   of the second pivot bearing can thereby be prevented from rubbing on the mount. For this
 5 purpose, the outer diameter of the second spacer should be less than the inner diameter of the
   outer ring of the second pivot bearing.
   According to a preferred development, the first pivot bearing does not project into the inner cam
   slot, and the second pivot bearing does not project into the outer cam slot. This achieves the
 0 effect that the pivot bearings are disposed next to each other, and inexpensive standard pivot
   bearings can be used.
   The pivot bearings are preferably based substantially on a steel alloy. Particularly preferably,
   the inner sleeves of the pivot bearings are composed of an abrasion-resistant steel alloy. The
25 outer sleeves of the pivot bearings should preferably be of the same material, or be composed
   at least partly thereof.
   According to a special embodiment, the outer ring of the first pivot bearing and/or the outer ring
   of the second pivot bearing has/have an inner bearing ring and an outer shroud ring disposed
30 thereon. This enables the material properties of the outer sleeve to be adapted to the specific
   requirements. Preferably, the outer shroud ring is fixedly connected to the inner bearing ring.
   As a result, they are mutually stabilizing, but no relative movements are produced with friction
   between the bearing ring and the shroud ring. The shroud ring may, for example, be pressed
   onto the bearing ring, for example with a transition fit or interference fit. Alternatively, materially
35 bonded connections or adhesive bondings are possible. Preferably, the shroud ring is thicker

                                                    -9
   than the bearing ring, in particular transversely to the carrier shaft. As a result, there is space
   available for an elastic deformation of the shroud ring.
   The inner bearing ring is preferably composed of a harder material than the outer shroud ring.
 5 In particular, a material based on iron, preferably a steel or a steel alloy, is suitable for the
   bearing ring. A material based on plastic, preferably of polyethylene (PE) or polyoxymethylene
   (POM) is suitable for the shroud ring. This allows low-wear adjustment to be effected in a quiet
   and comfortable, and moreover precise, manner.
 0 In a development of the reversing system, it is provided that the second outer cam slot is
   realized in the outer sleeve, and a second mount, having a second optical element and having
   guide pin, which passes through the inner cam slot and the second outer cam slot, is supported
   in an axially displaceable manner in the guide sleeve, the second guide pin having a carrier
   shaft, on which are seated a third pivot bearing and a fourth pivot bearing, the third pivot
 5 bearing being guided within the second outer cam slot, and the fourth pivot bearing being
   guided within the inner cam slot, and the third pivot bearing and/or the fourth pivot bearing
   having, in the centre thereof, an inner ring that sits on the carrier shaft and an outer ring that is
   rotatably supported on the inner ring. Two mounts make it possible, in particular, to achieve
   greater zoom ranges, the axial displacements of the mounts being coupled to each other in a
 0 defined manner via the guides. In connection with embodiments having a second guide pin, the
   guide pin of the first mount is designated as a first guide pin.
   The second outer cam slot in this case may also be realized as a curved path. The actuating
   forces that occur in the case of such an arrangement are approximately twice as great as in the
25 case of only one movable mount. Accordingly, a reduction of the actuating forces is particularly
   important for preventing jamming or self-locking, this being achieved, according to the invention,
   by means of the guide pins having a first, second, third and fourth pivot bearing. Moreover, a
   reversing system having two displaceable mounts is longer, and has longer cam slots. This
   results in an increased thermal deformation of the reversing system in the case of temperature
30 changes, which in the prior art result in jamming at very low temperatures. Owing to the
   improved guiding of the guide pins in the cam slots, this fault susceptibility is also significantly
   reduced.
   Optionally the second guide pin, corresponding to the development variants of the first guide
35 pin, may have the various alternative development features according to preceding and

                                                     -10
   following description. The advantages that ensue from the optional designs of the second guide
   pin are equal, in respect of content, to those of the first guide pin, but they become especially
   important in the case of a development having two movable mounts having optical elements,
   since the positioning forces are greater, the friction is greater and it is necessary to achieve a
 5 high positional accuracy of two displaceable optical elements. Particularly preferably, the first
   and the second guide pin are structurally identical. An advantage of this is the low number of
   differing components, resulting in low costs and simple installation.
   The invention additionally relates to a telescopic sight having a tubular housing, disposed in
 0 which, along an optical path, are an objective lens and a reversing system as described above
   and in the following. The reversing system enables the image magnification to be altered in a
   precise and convenient manner, even at high and low temperatures. Owing to the highly
   compact design of the reversing system, the housing can also be slender.
 5 In a more particular development, supported on the housing there is an adjusting means, by
   means of which the outer sleeve can be rotated relative to the guide sleeve. This enables the
   magnification to be altered in a convenient manner.
   Preferably, a reticle is disposed in the housing, along the optical path, or the telescopic sight
 0 has an overlay means for overlaying a reticle into the optical path. A target can thereby be
   aimed at with precision.
   The invention additionally relates to a firearm having a barrel and having a telescopic sight as
   described above and in the following, the tubular housing being disposed next to the barrel,
25 aligned parallel to the barrel, and directly or indirectly connected to the barrel.
   Further features, details and advantages of the invention are disclosed by the working of the
   claims and by the following description of the exemplary embodiments, on the basis of the
   drawings. There are shown:
30
   Fig. 1 a side view of a reversing system;
   Fig. 2 a guide sleeve;
   Fig. 3 a longitudinal section through a reversing system; and
   Fig. 4 a detail of the longitudinal section through the reversing system according to Fig. 3.
35

                                                     - 11
   Fig. 1 shows a side view of a reversing system 1 for telescopic sights. It can be seen that there
   is a guide sleeve 10 inserted in an outer sleeve 20. The outer sleeve 20 is supported on the
   guide sleeve 10 in an axially fixed manner, and so as to be rotatable about an optical axis A.
   Realized in the guide sleeve 10 there is an inner cam slot 11, and realized in the outer sleeve
 5 20 there is an outer cam slot 21 and a second outer cam slot 22. The outer cam slots 21, 22
   are each in the form of a curved path. A first guide pin 50 of a first mount, having an optical
   element, projects into the inner cam slot 11 and the outer cam slot 21, so as to realize a cam
   mechanism. A relative rotational movement of the outer sleeve 20 on the guide sleeve 10 about
   the optical axis A causes a displacement of the first guide pin 50, and consequently of the inner
 0 mount, including the optical element.
   At the same time, a second guide pin 150 of a second mount, having a second optical element,
   projects into the inner cam slot 11 and the second outer cam slot 22. The rotational motion
   described above then drives the second guide pin 150 through the inner cam slot 11 and the
 5 second outer cam slot 22. As a result, the second mount is displaced along the optical axis A.
   Also identified in Fig. 1 is the width B21 of the outer cam slot 21.
   Fig. 2 shows a side view of a guide sleeve 10, as may be used in a reversing system according
 0 to Fig. 1. It can be seen here, in particular, that the inner cam slot 11 is a linear cam slot. The
   latter extends parallel to the optical axis A. In addition, the linear cam slot 11 has a width B11.
   Represented in Fig. 3 is a longitudinal section through the reversing system 1 according to Fig.
   1. Here, in particular, it can be seen in detail how the guide sleeve 10 is inserted in the outer
25 sleeve 20, and how the mount 30, having an optical element 32, and the second mount 130,
   having a second optical element 132, are supported in a longitudinally displaceable manner in
   the guide sleeve 10, along the optical axis A. An annular air gap L is realized between the inner
   sleeve 10 and the outer sleeve 20, over the length of the inner cam slot 11.
30 It can additionally be seen how the first and the second guide pin 50, 150 project through the
   linear inner cam slot 11 and the outer cam slot 21, or the second outer cam slot 22.
   Fig. 4 shows, in particular, the details of the first and the second guide pin 50, 150, as this
   region from Fig. 3 is represented in enlarged form here.
35

                                                     -12
   The first guide pin 50 has a carrier shaft 51, seated on which are a first pivot bearing 60 and a
   second pivot bearing 61. The carrier shaft 51 is aligned transversely, namely perpendicularly, in
   relation to the displacement axis, or optical axis A (see Fig. 3) of the mount 30. The figure
   shows the first pivot bearing 60 guided within the outer cam slot 21 and the second pivot
 5 bearing 61 guided within the inner cam slot 11. The first and the second pivot bearing 60, 61
   are each a rolling bearing, namely a ball bearing. In its centre, the first pivot bearing 60 has an
   inner ring 62 seated on the carrier shaft 51, and an outer ring 64 rotatably supported on the
   inner ring 62. In addition, in its centre the second pivot bearing 61 has an inner ring 63 seated
   on the carrier shaft 51 and an outer ring 65 rotatably supported on the inner ring 63. The
 0 rotatable support in each case is effected indirectly via rolling bodies, namely balls, between the
   inner ring 62, 63 and the outer ring 64, 65. As can be seen upon closer viewing, the outer ring
   64 is guided in the outer cam slot 21 and the outer ring 65 is guided in the inner cam slot 11.
   A first spacer 66, realized as an annular spacing washer, sits between the inner rings 62, 63 of
 5 the first and second pivot bearing 60, 61. In particular, the first and the second pivot bearing 60,
   61, and the first spacer 66, sit on a common cylindrical surface 56 of the carrier shaft 51.
   In addition, a second spacer 67, in the form of an annular washer, sits on the carrier shaft 51,
   between the inner ring 63 of the second pivot bearing 61 and the mount 30. This spacer,
 0 however, is no longer disposed on the cylindrical surface 56, but on a thinner portion of the
   carrier shaft 51.
   A stop 52, which adjoins the cylindrical surface 56, is realized at a first end El of the carrier
   shaft 51.
25
   The inner rings 62, 63 of the first and second pivot bearing 60, 61, and the first and the second
   spacer 66, 67, are clamped-in between the stop 52 of the carrier shaft 51 and the mount 30.
   For this purpose, at a second E2, the carrier shaft 51 has a thread 57, namely an external
   thread, which is screw-connected to a counter-thread 33, namely an inner thread, in the mount
30 30. As a result, the clamping-in of the first and second pivot bearing 60, 61 is effected by the
   screwed connection of the thread 57 to the counter-thread 33, in particular also because the
   cylindrical surface 56 is (slightly) shorter than the set composed of the pivot bearings 60, 61 and
   the first spacer 66 is wide. Beyond a minimum torque, under normal conditions of use of the
   reversing system, the inner rings 62, 63 of the first and second pivot bearing 60, 61, and the first
35 and the second spacer 66, 67 are clamped-in in a rotationally fixed manner.

                                                    -13
   Owing to the spacers 66, 67 and the stop 52, the outer rings 64, 65 are supported, in the axial
   direction of the carrier shaft 51, at a distance apart from adjacent components. In particular, the
   outer rings 64, 65 of the first and second pivot bearing 60, 61 also do not touch. Furthermore,
 5 the outer diameter D67 of the second spacer 67 is less than the inner diameter d65 of the outer
   ring 65 of the second pivot bearing 61.
   It can also be seen that the first and the second pivot bearing 60, 61 do not engage in each
   other along the carrier shaft 51, and do not overlap along the carrier shaft 51. The first pivot
 0 bearing 60 does not project into the inner cam slot 11, and the second pivot bearing 61 does not
   project into the outer cam slot 21. The first pivot bearing 60 in this case is narrower (in the axial
   direction of the carrier shaft 51) than the outer cam slot 21. The second pivot bearing 61 is
   narrower than the inner cam slot 11. The second pivot bearing 61 projects slightly out of the
   inner cam slot 11 and into the air gap L. The air gap L is narrower than the second pivot
 5 bearing 61.
   The stop 52 is realized by a top shoulder 54 realized from the carrier shaft 51, at the first end
   El. The top shoulder 54 also realizes a cover plate 55, which, owing to a small shoulder in
   relation to the stop 52, is disposed at a distance apart from the first pivot bearing 60. The cover
 0 plate 55 has a circular circumference, and covers a large portion of the end face of the first pivot
   bearing 60, the end face to be viewed, in particular, from the axial direction of the carrier shaft
   51. The top shoulder 54 is in the form of a disk and projects slightly into the outer cam slot 21,
   but also protrudes out of the outer cam slot 21.     In order that the cover plate 55 can project into
   the outer cam slot 21, the outer diameter D55 of the cover plate 55 is less than the outer
25 diameter D60 of the first pivot bearing 60 and also less than the width B21 (see Fig. 1) of the
   outer cam slot 21.
   At the first end El of the carrier shaft 51, in particular in the top shoulder 54, there is a tool
   opening 53 for a rotary tool, realized in the carrier shaft 51. The opening in this case is a
30 hexagonal opening. The tool opening 53 projects into a region that is radially within the first
   pivot bearing 61.
   It can additionally be seen in Fig. 4 that the outer diameter D60 of the first pivot bearing 60
   corresponds to the outer diameter D61 of the second pivot bearing 61. The inner diameter d60
35 of the first pivot bearing 60 also corresponds to the inner diameter d61 of the second pivot

                                                     -14
   bearing 61. The inner diameter d66 of the first spacer 66 corresponds substantially to the inner
   diameters d60, d61 of the first and second pivot bearing 60, 61. However, the inner diameter
   d66 of the first spacer 67 may also be slightly greater, namely have somewhat more fit
   clearance, than the inner diameters d60, d61 of the pivot bearings 60, 61. This enables it to be
 5 slid more easily onto the carrier shaft 51.
   Closer examination reveals that the first spacer 66 has a greater spacing thickness in the centre
   than further outward. As a result, further outward it stands freely between the pivot bearings 60,
   61.   In particular, the outer diameter D66 of the first spacer 66 is less than the outer diameter
 0 D60, D61 of the first and second pivot bearing 60, 61.
   Furthermore, the outer ring 64 of the first pivot bearing 60 and the outer ring 65 of the second
   pivot bearing 61 each have an inner bearing ring 68 and, disposed thereon, an outer shroud
   ring 69. These are connected to each other in a rotationally fixed manner, and are composed of
 5 different materials. As a result, a harder material can be used in the bearing ring, and the zone
   of contact to the cam slots 11, 21, 22 can be composed of a softer material. As a result, an
   interference fit can be realized without clearance.
   The second guide pin 150 is realized so as to be structurally identical to the first guide pin 50. It
 0 can also be seen from Fig. 4 that there is a second outer cam slot 22 realized in the outer
   sleeve 20, and a second mount 130, having a second optical element 132, is disposed in an
   axially displaceable manner in the guide sleeve 10. The second guide pin 150 is connected to
   the second mount 130, and passes through the inner cam slot 11 and the second outer cam slot
   22. The second guide pin 150 has a carrier shaft 151, seated on which are a third pivot bearing
25 160 and a fourth pivot bearing 161. The third pivot bearing 160 is guided within the second
   outer cam slot 22, and the fourth pivot bearing 161 is guided within the inner cam slot 11. The
   third pivot bearing 160 and the fourth pivot bearing 161 each have, in the centre thereof, an
   inner ring 162, 163 seated on the carrier shaft 151, and an outer ring 164, 165 rotatably
   supported on the inner ring 162, 163.
30
   In respect of the further features of the second guide pin 150, reference is to be made to the
   structurally identical designs of the first guide pin 50.
   The invention is not limited to one of the embodiments described above, but may be modified in
35 a multiplicity of ways.

                                                    -15
   In particular, the first guide pin 50 and the second guide pin 150 may also differ in their design.
   This is because there may also be differing requirements resulting from differing steepnesses of
   gradient in the curved paths of the outer cam slots.
 5
   A reversing system such as that described in the figures may also be part of a telescopic sight.
   Such a telescopic sight generally has a tubular housing, in which an objective lens and the
   reversing system according to the invention may be disposed, along an optical path. An
   adjusting ring, which allows the outer sleeve 20 to be rotated on the guide sleeve 10, can be
 0 supported on the housing. A reticle may be disposed in the housing of a telescopic sight, along
   the optical path, or the telescopic sight has an overlay means for overlaying a reticle into the
   optical path.
   Such a telescopic sight may be fixed to a firearm having a barrel. For this purpose, the tubular
 5 housing is disposed next to the barrel, aligned parallel to the barrel, and directly or indirectly
   connected to the barrel.
   All features and advantages disclosed by the claims, the description and the drawing, including
   structural design details, spatial arrangements and method steps, may be essential to the
 0 invention, both per se and in a great variety of combinations.
   Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context requires otherwise,
   the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" and "comprising", will be understood to
   imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group of integers or steps but not the exclusion
25 of any other integer or step or group of integers or steps.
   The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information derived from it), or to
   any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as an acknowledgment or admission
   or any form of suggestion that that prior publication (or information derived from it) or known
30 matter forms part of the common general knowledge in the field of endeavor to which this
   specification relates.
   The reference numerals in the following claims do not in any way limit the scope of the
   respective claims.
35

                                      -16
List of references
1   reversing system                     68   bearing ring
                                         69   shroud ring
10 guide sleeve
11  linear cam slot                       130 second mount
                                          132 second optical element
20  outer sleeve                          150 second guide pin
21  outer cam slot                        151 carrier shaft
22  second outer cam slot                 160 third pivot bearing
                                          161 fourth pivot bearing
30  mount                                 162 inner ring (third pivot bearing)
32  optical element                       163 inner ring (fourth pivot bearing)
33  counter-thread                        164 outer ring (third pivot bearing)
                                          165 outer ring (fourth pivot bearing)
50  (first) guide pin
51  carrier shaft                        A    optical axis
52  stop                                  B11 width (linear cam slot)
53  tool opening                          B21 width (outer cam slot)
54  top shoulder                          D55 outer diameter (cover plate)
55  cover plate                           D60 outer diameter (first pivot bearing)
56  cylindrical surface                   D61 outer diameter (second pivot bearing)
57  thread                               d60 inner diameter (first pivot bearing)
                                         d61 inner diameter (second pivot bearing)
60  first pivot bearing                  d65 inner diameter (outer ring of second pivot
61  second pivot bearing                      bearing)
62  inner ring (first pivot bearing)      D66 outer diameter (first spacer)
63  inner ring (second pivot bearing)    d66 inner diameter (first spacer)
64  outer ring (first pivot bearing)      D67 outer diameter (second spacer)
65  outer ring (second pivot bearing)     El  first end (carrier shaft)
66  first spacer                          E2 second end (carrier shaft)
67 second spacer                          L   air gap

                                                  -17
             THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1. A reversing system (1) for telescopic sights, having a guide sleeve (10), an outer sleeve
      (20) and a mount (30) that has an optical element (32), the outer sleeve (20) being
 5    supported in an axially fixed and rotatable manner on the guide sleeve (10), and an inner
      cam slot (11) being realized in the guide sleeve (10), and an outer cam slot (21) being
      realized in the outer sleeve (20), the mount (30) being supported in an axially displaceable
      manner in the guide sleeve (10) and having a guide pin (50) that projects into the inner cam
      slot (11) and the outer cam slot (21), wherein the guide pin (50) has a carrier shaft (51), on
 0    which are seated a first pivot bearing (60) and a second pivot bearing (61), the first pivot
      bearing (60) being guided within the outer cam slot (21), and the second pivot bearing (61)
      being guided within the inner cam slot (11), and the first pivot bearing (60) and/or the
      second pivot bearing (61) having, in the centre thereof, an inner ring (62, 63) that sits on
      the carrier shaft (51) and an outer ring (64, 65) that is rotatably supported on the inner ring
 5    (62, 63).
   2. The reversing system (1) as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first and the second pivot
      bearing (60, 61 are clamped-in, in the centre, between a stop (52) of the carrier shaft (51)
      and the mount (30).
 0
   3. The reversing system (1) as claimed in claim 2, wherein the stop (52) is realized by a top
      shoulder (54) realized from the carrier shaft (51).
   4. The reversing system (1) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
25    carrier shaft (51) realizes a cover plate (55), the cover plate (55) being disposed at a
      distance apart from the first pivot bearing (60).
   5. The reversing system (1) as claimed in claim 4, wherein the outer diameter (D55) of the
      cover plate (55) is less than the outer diameter (D60) of the first pivot bearing (60).
30
   6. The reversing system (1) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first
      and/or second pivot bearing (60), 61) is/are a rolling bearing.
   7. The reversing system (1) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the outer
35    ring or outer rings (64, 65) is/are supported, in the axial direction of the carrier shaft (51), at
      a distance apart from adjacent components.

                                                       -18
    8.     The reversing system (1) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first
           and the second pivot bearing (60, 61) do not engage in each other along the carrier shaft
           (51).
 5 9.      The reversing system (1) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first
           pivot bearing (60) and the second pivot bearing (61) respectively have an inner ring (62,
           63) seated on the carrier shaft (61) and an outer ring (64, 65) rotatably supported on the
           inner ring (62, 63), wherein the outer rings (64, 65) of the first and second pivot bearing
           (60, 61) do not touch.
 0
   10.     The reversing system (1) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first
           pivot bearing (60) and the second pivot bearing (61) respectively have an inner ring (62,
           63) seated on the carrier shaft (51) and an outer ring (64, 65) rotatably supported on the
           inner ring (62, 63), wherein a first spacer (66) is disposed between the inner rings (62, 63)
 5         of the first and the second pivot bearing (60, 61).
   11.     The reversing system (1) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the
           second pivot bearing (61) has an inner ring (63) seated on the carrier shaft (51) and an
           outer ring (65) rotatably supported on the inner ring (63), wherein a second spacer (67) is
 0         disposed between the inner ring (63) of the second pivot bearing (61) and the mount (30).
   12.     The reversing system (1) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first
           pivot bearing (60) does not project into the inner cam slot (11), and the second pivot
           bearing (61) does not project into the outer cam slot (21).
25
   13.     The reversing system (1) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims, wherein the outer
           ring (64) of the first pivot bearing (60) and/or the outer ring (65) of the second pivot bearing
           (61) has/have an inner bearing ring and an outer shroud ring disposed thereon.
30     14. A telescopic sight having a tubular housing, disposed in which, along an optical path, are
           an objective lens and a reversing system (1) as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.

80062-0072                                  1/ 4
             1
                                  20   22      11           21
                                                      B21
                 A
                                                    150          50
 <removed-date>         <removed-apn>

80062-0072                       2/ 4
                            10          11
                                             B11
 <removed-date>   <removed-apn>

80062-0072                                       3/ 4
             1
                                  20   11        L      22     150     50        21
                 A
                            22              21               130 132        30    32
 <removed-date>         <removed-apn>

80062-0072                                                         4/ 4
                                    162 150 151                      55 52 56 51 53 50 54 60
                              164                 160                                        E
                        163                                        62
                                                        161
                  165                                             64
                                                          L     63
                                                               65
             22
             11
                                                                             d60,d61
                                                                               D67
                                     130                                    d65, d66
                                           132                              D55, D66
                                                   69                       D60, D61
                                                              68
 <removed-date>            <removed-apn>

