ABSTRACT
A dinghy constructed of two separable sections, being a front and a rear section, and a
connection means adapted to join the two sections together. The front section has a rear
bulkhead, the rear section has a front bulkhead the connection means integral with the
bulkheads. One of the bulkheads includes cylindrical sleeves, the other bulkhead cylindrical
rods adapted to engage the sleeves to thereby connect the dinghy together.

                           A vessel made from separate floating elements
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]        The present invention relates to a boat and in particular to a dinghy made from two
or more parts, each part able to float on its own.
BACKGROUND TO THE INVENTION
[0002]        There are many reasons why a small boat or dinghy that can be assembled from
two or more separate sections presents a useful article. For example, most vessels such as
yachts that have a keel usually also have a dinghy since the yacht in some places can only be
moored a distance away from the shore and a dinghy is required to reach land. The advantages
of having a dinghy also lead to the disadvantage of the dinghy taking up space on the parent
vessel deck. A dinghy that can be split into two or more parts is thus inherently easier to stow.
 This is also true of dinghies that are stored in residential areas and transported to water using
a vehicle. Not only is a dinghy that comes in several parts easier to store but it is also easier to
transport.
[0003]        In addition, in situations where transporting a whole dinghy is difficult for one
reason or another (perhaps from a road to a water body that has no launching ramp or other
easily accessible area to which to transport a whole dinghy by conventional conveyance means
such as a trailer or wheeled vehicle) the ability to transport half a dinghy at a time for
reassembly on or near the water becomes readily apparent as providing considerable
advantage to the user.
[0004]        Two-piece dinghies are known where the two pieces are attached to each other
typically by bolts that join the two adjacent ends of the respective halves of a dinghy. The
assembly either takes place on land before the launch of the assembled dinghy or while upon a
vessel where it may even involve the need to stand one part on its end then raise the other
over the head so to speak to achieve a gravity-hold while bolts are passed between the two
halves. This is not only cumbersome but has the potential for disaster should the wind take
hold of the higher piece before attachment is achieved. Further, the potential for loss or
mislaid parts such as bolts washers and nuts is considerable.
[0005]        Regardless of where 2-part dinghies are located when assembly takes place, the
joining of two or more parts of a dinghy typically requires bringing together the transverse
bulkheads of the separate segments of the craft and most frequently involves through
bulkhead bolts; conventionally the bulkheads are required to come face to face in tight
configuration to achieve successful water-tight joining of the craft (indeed, frequently the

"bulkheads" are little more than peripheral enlarged partial joining segments rather than full
or near full-depth bulkheads; such is the tightness of the said jointing systems currently
employed).
[0006]       Some dinghies are manufactured so as to achieve a connection while the two parts
are afloat but these rely on maintaining the horizontal alignment of one part within which the
occupant sits while floating the other half towards the individual in the dinghy prior to
achieving connection, again by use of through bolting. The requirement here is therefore for a
great depth of internal floatation material within the main segment of the dinghy thereby
reducing the internal freeboard of the dinghy that is available for its intended purpose such as
transporting people or goods.
[0007]       Where alternative means to bolts have been employed it remains a universal
feature of such devices that the two end bulkheads are required to come into full and
complete transverse contact, often supplementing this need by devices such as compressible
rubber seals as water will ingress between any openings within the end bulkheads if allowed to
enter from outside the hulls of the respective segments of the dinghy.
[0008]       There is then a need for secondary securing devices including special, separate
channel means as well as screws, wing nuts and the like; there is also the need for very costly
tooling to produce the described indentations in the ends of the adjacent bulkheads.
[0009]       For example, US patent 3,916,468 teaches bulkheads with vertical dove-tailed
indentations and respective matching folded segments in the adjoining bulkhead that are
tapered towards the bottom. This arrangement requires production via expensive and wasteful
machining or folding of a very specialist nature involving only light weight and therefore
flexible sheet material. The end result is that further tightening means must be found, and are
herein described, for bringing and retaining the now wedged bulkheads in position; a position
that because the wedging itself is problematic may well lead to jamming of the joint means.
[0010]       The object of the present invention is to provide a dinghy that alleviates the above
problem, or at least provides the public with a useful alternative. It is therefore a key feature of
this dinghy that the space between the respective bulkheads will be a wet area. That is, it will
be normal for it to fill with water to the same level as the water upon which the vessel floats.
This water causes no detriment to the vessel either when it is under power or when it is
stationary while afloat. As a consequence of this wet area, the height or depth of the
bulkheads must be relatively close to the "freeboard" of the vessel and a seat covering this
joint will be higher in relative terms than in a normal dinghy where it is somewhat lower. The

differences are not highly significant but may feel somewhat strange to a person not used to
the change. Depending upon the specific approach to manufacturing the joining system, the
outer skin of the dinghy may protrude from one or other (or indeed partially from both) of the
bulkhead in order to complete the effect of a continuous hull (apart from the obvious
existence of a small gap between the two halves of the vessel).
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0011]        In a first aspect the invention comprises a dinghy constructed of two separable
sections, being a front and a rear section, and a connection means adapted to join the two
sections together the connection means including at least one vertical rod on one section
adapted to engage a vertical sleeve on the other section and wherein at least the front of the
rod is of a circular configuration in its cross-section.
[0012]        In preference the front section has a rear bulkhead, the rear section a front
bulkhead the connection means integral with the bulkheads.
[0013]        In preference one of the bulkheads includes three sleeves, the other bulkhead
including three rods adapted to engage the sleeves to thereby couple the dinghy together.
[0014]        In preference the sleeves and the rods are of a circular configuration.
[0015]        In preference the rear bulkhead includes the sleeves and the front bulkhead the
rods.
[0016]        It should be noted that any one of the aspects mentioned above may include any of
the features of any of the other aspects mentioned above and may include any of the features
of any of the embodiments described below as appropriate.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0017]        Preferred features, embodiments and variations of the invention may be discerned
from the following Detailed Description which provides sufficient information for those skilled
in the art to perform the invention. The Detailed Description is not to be regarded as limiting
the scope of the preceding Summary of the Invention in any way. The Detailed Description will
make reference to a number of drawings as follows.
Figure 1 is a top schematic view of a dinghy according to the present invention;
Figures 2a, b, c are views illustrating the connection means;
Figure 3 illustrates the two parts of a dinghy being joined;
Figure 4 illustrates the dinghy when the two parts are not joined;

Figure 5 illustrates one method of joining two parts of a dinghy;
Figure 6 illustrates a dinghy when two parts are joined;
Figure 7 is a partial view of the end of one part of the dinghy;
Figure 8 is a partial view showing how the two parts of the dinghy are locked together;
Figure 9 illustrates how the dinghy can be stored when separated into two parts; and
Figure 10 illustrates the joining together of the two parts when on the water.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0018]        The following detailed description of the invention refers to the accompanying
drawings. Wherever possible, the same reference numbers will be used throughout the
drawings and the following description to refer to the same and like parts. Dimensions of
certain parts shown in the drawings may have been modified and/or exaggerated+ for the
purposes of clarity or illustration.
[0019]        Referring now to the Figures there is shown a dinghy 10 comprising of a separable
front half 12 and rear half 14 that can be attached together using a joining means 16. Seats 18
are located on the front and rear halves. To join the sections together the rear half includes
vertical sleeves 20 and the front half includes vertical rods 22 that are adapted to be inserted
into the sleeves. Each rod is supported by the front half using web 24 that is accommodated
by slit 26 in the sleeve 20. Whilst illustrated as being of a circular configuration it is to be
understood that the sleeves and rods may be of any appropriate cross-sectional shape,
provided that the front of the rods and the sleeves are at least of a semi-circular shape.
[0020]        Once the rods are fully inserted into the sleeves a bolt 28 fixed to the front half
engages a block 30 fixed to the rear half. The bolt may be spring-loaded to ensure that it
remains in place and a force has to be applied to retract it.
[0021]        The sleeves 20 are illustrated in the Figure 2c as extending beyond the front of the
rear bulkhead 32, if the bulkhead is thick enough they could be wholly located within the front
wall of the rear half (Figure 2b) so that when the two halves are joined together the rear
bulkhead 34 of the front half abuts the front bulkhead 32 of the rear half.
[0022]        The above embodiment discussed a dinghy made up of two halves. It is however to
be understood that a dinghy or a boat may be made up of several sections each connected to
each other by the means described.
[0023]        The reader should now appreciate the present invention. No part of either

connecting end-bulkhead is breached by any connection means, and there is no need for
detachable holding means to achieve the connection. There is nothing to become lost in transit
so to speak; there are no bolts or similar connection means passing through the bulkheads.
Further, apart from the possibility of incorporating the vertical tubes within the bulkhead of
the "receiving" section of the dinghy and the tubes therefore forming a structurally integral
part of the transverse bulkhead, there are no pre-formed indentations and related protrusions
forming part of the bulkhead walls or disrupting the integrity of the bulkheads which under the
present innovation are now separated by a distance that allows for "external" (or intra
bulkhead) connection means. It also allows for simple connection of the two parts of the
dinghy while the two parts of the dinghy are afloat; the only requirement being that at least
one of the two parts of the vessel is independently capable of supporting the weight of the
person doing the assembling while the activity is taking place. There is therefore a minimum
volume that at least one half of an intended 2-piece dinghy must have for the following
connection means to be effective and safe.
[0024]       The connection means consist of vertical tubes/sleeves on one bulkhead and
reciprocally mounted rods on the facing bulkhead with splits in the tubes to allow entry of the
rods as they are inserted at the upper side and slid downwards until the connection is
complete. There is still an outer skin to the hull that extends throughout the length of the
assembled dinghy as one half will carry the "internal" connection means recessed within the
skin means (but still external to the end bulkhead) while the second half will have no skin
means protruding beyond its end bulkhead yet will have protruding rods in vertical alignment
for sliding into the opposite receiving tubes.
[0025]       The rods and the sleeves may be tapered to allow for frictional engagement.
[0026]        It is important to realise that this description is only one embodiment of the
concept and that the rods and sleeves may be reversed in terms of which set goes on which
bulkhead or indeed there may be a mixture of rods and tubes on opposite bulkheads; the end
result will be the same: a solid connection of the two halves of the dinghy once vertical and
horizontal alignment have been attained. It is also possible and may be advantageous with
some materials to make the rods and tubes taper from "top" to "bottom" or indeed to employ
a stepped taper or simply stepped diameter within the tubes and reciprocally stepped
diameter of the joining rods. However, if any tapering is employed within the connection
means there will need to be recognition of the tendency for tapered connections to become
locked due to friction.
[0027]       There are no bolts or extraneous pieces required to assemble or disaggregate the

dinghy; the connection means are fixed, in situ, and not capable of being lost or separated
from the two parts of the dinghy while it is disaggregated. Having thrown away the bolts so to
speak, the manner and method of assembly of the two halves falls generally into two cases: on
dry land or on the water. After assembly, the retention of the two halves in horizontal
alignment may include bolts or other attachment means but none of these are required to pass
through the bulkheads and none is needed that is not attached to one or other of the halves of
the dinghy at all times.
[0028]        On dry land, the manner of connection or disaggregation preferably requires two
persons to be present to present the one half of the dinghy in a generally horizontal position to
the remaining half but above its elevation so that a series of vertically spaced rods (typically
three) attached to but external to its end bulkhead may be slid into matching vertical slotted
receiving sleeves on the external face of its companion bulkhead. The alignment of the two
halves is necessary and requires two persons to support the process as most people are not
able to hold half a dinghy horizontally above the ground for a period long enough to align the
connecting rods with their receiving tubes prior to allowing gravity to achieve the connection
as the rods slide down into the slotted receiving tubes. Alternatively, one end of the dinghy
may be placed on sloping ground such as a sloping beach where the other end may be
presented in now less than horizontal position, allowed to rest there and then tipped upwards
from the far end. It is possible but difficult for one person to achieve a connection while the
dinghy is on dry land.
[0029]        The central advantage of this method of achieving connection between two halves
of a 2-piece dinghy is that pertaining to doing both these tasks while afloat. This is best
illustrated in Figure 10 where illustrated is the attachment of the two halves floating relative to
the water line 36. Providing that the larger (probably rear) portion of the dinghy has sufficient
floatation capacity a single person standing or sitting in one part of the dinghy draws the other
towards himself or herself so that the two separate bulkheads are roughly in transverse
alignment with each other, then he or she raises the rear portion of the unoccupied segment
so that the bottom end of the middle (assuming there are three) securing rod is brought to rest
on the top of the central matching sleeve segment into which it is to slide. The rods (or tubes)
to the side of this central connection will be found to be roughly in vertical alignment with
their receiving opposites. To achieve a sliding together of the rods and their respective tubes
all that is needed is for the person in the first segment to place a foot or hand within the
second segment and press firmly downwards whereupon gravity will allow the two segments
to slide together and achieve a complete connection. The advantage of this process, on the

water, is that the weight of the occupant of the "receiving" end of the dinghy will depress the
"receiving" bulkhead so that its vertical alignment is skewed towards the alignment of the
"elevating" (unoccupied) segment of the dinghy and it's therefore similarly off-vertical skewed
securing rods. In the above discussion, rods may be changed for tubes and vice-versa, and any
combination from one set to another is possible.
[0030]       Once in place, the two halves of the dinghy will need to be secured so that while on
the water they are not liable to float apart in the vertical sense. This securing is probably best
achieved by providing two or more tensioning clips that take the overlapping seat section of
the forward segment vertically to the inner wall of the adjacent segment and force a closure by
spring means. Alternatively, gate latches on both connecting inner wall sections where the
respective hull segments meet above the height of the now secured and now "internally
integrated" bulkheads would achieve the same purpose. Another means is to provide a ring
pull releasable spring-loaded automatic pin laterally within the outer wall of the central
securing tube, near its upper end, that locates the pin into a hole within the securing rod to
achieve a secure connection.
[0031]       The purpose of separating two halves of a dinghy while in deep water is entirely
related to the advantage obtained when raising the dinghy to the deck of a larger vessel.
Disaggregating the two halves of the dinghy while on the water has been found to be very
simply achieved. The benefit of differential floatation depending upon weight distribution
between the two halves of the dinghy is that this differential is employed to separate the
halves. The securing clips, pins, buckles, bolts, latches or whatever are removed first then the
weight is transferred to one half (probably the rear half). At this point the lighter half will rise
perhaps as much as half way to the point of separation. A simple reach lift over into this half
(hand holds are found in framework at bulkhead upper side or through-seat hold and so forth)
will allow this half of the dinghy to be lifted clear of its securing means. At this point there is a
sudden change in buoyancy of the respective halves with the one containing the person now
dropping some 35 percent or more of the depth of the bulkhead just to reflect the loss of the
buoyancy previously provided by the (probably front) segment. This sudden drop in the now
half dinghy is only of concern if the occupant is of extreme weight and advice would be given
to pre-test the activity in shallow water before doing so in deep water. In practice, a 90+ kg
person is found to cause a drop of about 10 cm in the bulkhead freeboard in a 3.3 m
aluminium dinghy at the point of separation. If in any doubt, a heavy person would be advised
to tie off both ends of the dinghy segment in which he or she was located to an overhead
vessel portion or dock prior to letting the other half of the dinghy separate. Alternatively, a

heavily built person might acquire the ability to keep one leg in each half of the dinghy and
achieve separation simultaneously shifting weight from one leg to the other to compensate for
the sudden change in buoyancy of the respective halves. Keeping one's weight well towards
the centre of the dinghy portion would also be advised as this will lessen the risk of any
overflow at the bulkhead end when the separation takes place. This may require some
dexterity just prior to completing the separation.
[0032]       The outer hull skin of the dinghy will probably protrude (depending upon design of
both the rod and tube sections) from one or other (possibly both) side of the end joining
planes in order to complete the effect of a continuous hull (other than a gap of a millimetre or
two that is unavoidable). Various means may be found to "blunt" the end of such a skin
segment to prevent undue damage in normal use of the dinghy. For example a shallow outer
but vertical segment may be added to the extremity of the hull segment (s) without interfering
with the joining system. This segment is not designed to provide any form of watertight
contact but merely for cosmetic effect; it will not impede the ingress of water to the gap
between the two halves of the dinghy.
[0033]       Because dinghies are bulky and expensive to transport it may well become the
norm that only the joining parts of the dinghy, consisting of the two separate bulkhead end
pieces (in pre-cut form) and their respective attached tubes and rods for joining the dinghy
together may form a commercial construct and may (with the bulkheads to be finally cut to
desired shape at the destination boatyard) be independently shipped from their point of
manufacture to the end user boatyard for final assembly into a finished 2-piece dinghy.
[0034]       One advantage of disaggregating a dinghy into two roughly equal length segments
is that the smaller (usually front) section may be turned around in its horizontal orientation to
the rear section and then nested within this rear section as a space saving device. This nesting
will require changes to the seat arrangements within the rear segment to accommodate the
forward section and seats so modified will need to contain buoyancy means such as foam or
trapped air. The total buoyancy of the dinghy must always achieve required regulatory
standards for safety purposes and this is achievable with varied approaches to design as well as
supplementary means such as foam sections located between the securing tubes on the
appropriate bulkhead of one or both segment ends. Figure 1 illustrates in the shaded areas
where foam or sealed air cavities may be installed to achieve required floatation for safety
purposes.
LIST OF COMPONENTS

[0035]        The drawings include the following integers:
         Dinghy                 10
         Front half             12
         Rear half              14
        Joining means           16
        Seats                   18
        Sleeves                 20
         Rods                   22
        Web                     24
        Slit                    26
         Bolt                   28
         Block                  30
         Front bulkhead         32
         Rear bulkhead          34
        Water line              36
[0036]        Further advantages and improvements may very well be made to the present
invention without deviating from its scope. Although the invention has been shown and
described in what is conceived to be the most practical and preferred embodiment, it is
recognized that departures may be made therefrom within the scope of the invention, which is
not to be limited to the details disclosed herein but is to be accorded the full scope of the
claims so as to embrace any and all equivalent devices and apparatus. Any discussion of the
prior art throughout the specification should in no way be considered as an admission that
such prior art is widely known or forms part of the common general knowledge in this field.
[0037]        Thus it may be possible that the bulkheads are manufactured and sold separately
that allows current dinghies to be cut and the bulkheads added to them to create a dinghy as
per the present invention.
[0038]        In the present specification and claims (if any), the word "comprising" and its
derivatives including "comprises" and "comprise" include each of the stated integers but does
not exclude the inclusion of one or more further integers.

CLAIMS
   1. A dinghy constructed of two separable sections, being a front and a rear section, and a
       connection means adapted to join the two sections together;
       the connection means including at least one vertical rod on one section adapted to
       engage a vertical sleeve on the other section and wherein at least the front of the rod is
       of a circular configuration in its cross-section.
   2. The dinghy as in claim 1 the front section having a rear bulkhead, the rear section
       having a front bulkhead the connection means integral with the bulkheads.
   3. The dinghy as in claim 2 wherein the rear bulkhead includes the sleeves and the front
       bulkhead the rods.
   4. The dinghy as in claim 3 wherein the sleeves are at least partially defined within one of
       the bulkheads and the rods protrude from the other bulkhead.
   5. The dinghy as in claim 1 wherein the rods are supported by a web extending from the
       bulkhead the sleeves including a slit to accommodate the web.
   6. The dinghy as in claim 1 wherein when the two sections are coupled together there is
       provided a locking means to prevent the two sections from decoupling.
   7. The dinghy as in claim 1 wherein there are three rods and three sleeves, the central rod
       engaging a central sleeve that is at a lower height then the other two sleeves.
   8.   The dinghy as in claim 1 there being a further middle section.
   9. The dinghy as in claim 7wherein the sleeves and the rods are tapered.
   10. The dinghy as in claim 2 wherein the bulkhead supporting the rods includes a seat
       above the rods.
   11. The dinghy as in claim 5 wherein the web does not extend fully along the rod and is
       shorter than the depth of the sleeve and the slit does not extend the full length of the
       sleeve.
   12. The dinghy as in claim 1 wherein the rod and the sleeve are of a circular configuration.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
