ABSTRACT
A method for fastening a component (190) to a base element (100), in which method there is
produced in the base element (100) a blind bore (110) which defines a depth direction (160)
and which has a force transmission surface (220) which has a depth T in the depth direction
(160), wherein the force transmission surface (220) is of frustoconical form with a cone
opening half-angle (P) and a mean diameter (d), wherein the blind bore (110) has a conical
blind bore base (120) with a cone opening angle (a) and, at the edge thereof, a bevel (230)
which extends in the depth direction (160) to a bevel depth L, wherein, in the method, a
fastening element (130) is anchored in the blind bore (110) by way of the force transmission
surface (220), and wherein the component (190) is held by the fastening element (130).

                                               -1
                                    FASTENING METHOD
DESCRIPTION
[0001]      The present invention relates to a method for fastening a component to a base
element, wherein a blind bore is produced in the base element, a fastening element is
anchored in the blind bore, and the component is held by the fastening element.
[0002]      Blind bores are usually produced by drills which are equipped with cutting edges at
their tips. The cutting edges are arranged inclined relative to a depth direction of the
respective blind bore and produce a conical blind bore base by rotation about the depth
direction. An edge of the blind bore generally has a bevel, so that between the bevel and the
blind bore base a force transmission surface is formed which extends in the depth direction
and into which for example a self-tapping thread of the fastening element cuts a counter
thread. The blind bore base and the bevel do not usually contribute anything to a
transmission of force between the fastening element and the base element.
[0003]      In order to achieve the greatest possible holding forces, drilling is usually
performed to a sufficient depth and a correspondingly long fastening element is used. In
plate-shaped base elements with a predetermined thickness, which furthermore should not
be drilled through, the depth of the blind bore and thus the effective length of the fastening
element for anchoring in the blind bore is limited.
[0004]      The object of the present invention is to provide a fastening method, wherein with
a given blind bore depth a substantial retaining force of the fastening element in the blind
bore is ensured.
[0005]      The object is achieved by a method for fastening a component to a base element,
in which method there is produced in the base element a blind bore which defines a depth
direction and which has a force transmission surface of the surface area A which has a
depth T less than 10 mm in the depth direction, wherein the force transmission surface is of
frustoconical form with a cone opening half-angle     p of 0" to 200 and a mean diameter d,
wherein the blind bore has a conical blind bore base with a cone opening angle (a) of 600 to
1800 and, at the edge thereof, a bevel which extends in the depth direction to a bevel depth
L of 0 mm bis 2 mm, wherein the mean diameter d of the force transmission surface A is at
least

                                               -2
  d = (1 -Vk)(T-L) tan
and at most
 d = (1+ V(T - L) tan
with a maximum surface tolerance k of 0.3, wherein, in the method, a fastening element is
anchored in the blind bore by way of the force transmission surface, and wherein the
component is held by the fastening element.
[0006]     In this case the base element is preferably made of a metal or an alloy. The depth
T of the blind bore is preferably only somewhat less than a thickness of the base element
which is in particular plate-shaped or wafer-shaped. The depth is preferably less than 8 mm,
preferably less than 6 mm, for example less than 4 mm. The bevel depth L of the bevel is
preferably 0 mm to 0.5 mm, particularly preferably 0 mm to 0.2 mm, for example 0.1 mm,
wherein a bevel depth of 0 mm means that the bevel is only present on the microscopic
scale.
[0007]     In the context of the invention the cone opening half-angle of a cone or of a
truncated cone is the angle between the generated line and the axis of the respective cone
pointing in the depth direction of the blind bore. The cone opening angle is double this
amount. The cone opening angle preferably opens, both for the force transmission surface
and also for the blind bore base, from the blind bore base to the edge of the blind bore. The
mean diameter d of the force transmission surface is the arithmetic mean of the diameter at
the two front ends of the truncated cone. At a cone opening half-angle B of 0' the shape of
the force transmission surface is a circular cylinder as a special case of the truncated cone.
The cone opening angle a of the blind bore base is preferably between 880 and 1380,
particularly preferably between 980 and 1380, for example 1180.
[0008]     The surface tolerance k is the proportion of the maximum possible force
transmission surface which is still tolerated as surface loss. The value k = 0.3 means that the
force transmission surface is at most 30% less than the maximum possible force
transmission surface. Preferably k = 0.2, particularly preferably k = 0.1. With k = 0, the
maximum possible force transmission surface is achieved with the stated value for the mean
diameter d.

                                                  -3
[0009]      The component is preferably already held by the anchoring of the fastening
element in the blind bore. According to a preferred embodiment, therefore, the fastening
element comprises a head, by means of which the component is held on the base element.
Likewise the component is preferably fastened only after anchoring on the fastening
element. According to a preferred embodiment, therefore, the fastening element comprises a
further load application means, by means of which the component is fastened to the
fastening element. Particularly preferably the shank has the further load application means.
[0010]      A preferred embodiment is characterized in that the blind bore consists of the blind
bore base, the force transmission surface and the bevel. The anchoring of the fastening
element in the blind bore preferably takes place only via the force transmission surface,
preferably by positive engagement, by frictional engagement and/or by cohesive bonding.
[0011]      A preferred embodiment is characterized in that the fastening element has a shank
with a counter-force transmission surface, wherein the counter-force transmission surface
interacts with the force transmission surface in order to anchor the fastening element in the
blind bore. Particularly preferably the fastening element has an external thread which is for
example self-tapping. A preferred embodiment is characterized in that the force transmission
surface has an internal thread. Particularly preferably the internal thread is complementary to
the external thread of the fastening element.
[0012]      A preferred embodiment is characterized in that the fastening element is pressed,
glued, welded, soldered and/or screwed into the blind bore. The fastening element is
preferably made of metal, an alloy or a plastic and is preferably formed as a screw, nail,
rivet, pin or bolt, particularly preferably as a threaded bolt.
[0013]      A preferred embodiment is characterized in that a bevel angle between the bevel
and the depth direction is between 300 and 600. Particularly preferably the bevel angle is
between 40' and 500, for example 45'. A further preferred embodiment is characterized in
that a driving angle between a surface of the base element and the depth direction is at least
800. Particularly preferably the driving angle is at least 850, for example 900.
[0014]      According to a preferred embodiment the blind bore is drilled into the base
element. Particularly preferably a drilling machine, in particular electrically operated, is used
for this. Likewise the depth T is preferably predetermined with the aid of a stop bit, which has
a drill stop particularly preferably formed as a shoulder. The drill is driven into the component

                                                   -4
and/or the base element until the drill stop rests against a surface of the component or base
element. The depth of the blind bore which is then formed as a borehole is as great as the
distance of the drill stop from the drill bit of the stop bit. According to an alternative
embodiment the depth T is predetermined with the aid of a depth stop of a drilling machine.
[0015]      According to an embodiment the mean diameter is less than or equal to 8 mm,
preferably less than or equal to 7 mm, particularly preferably less than or equal to 6 mm. As
a result in some circumstances the blind bore can be produced in a relatively short time with
a hand-held drilling machine.
[0016]      According to a preferred embodiment the mean diameter d is greater than or equal
to the depth T, preferably greater than the depth T.
[0017]      The invention is explained in greater detail below on the basis of embodiments
with reference to the drawings, in which:
[0018]       Figure 1 shows a fastening element fastened to a base element and
[0019]       Figure 2 shows an application of the surface area of the force transmission surface
via the mean diameter for different blind bore depths.
[0020]       In Figure 1 a plate 100 is shown which, within the context of the invention,
constitutes a base element. The plate 100 preferably comprises or consists of metal, in
particular aluminum, or an alloy, in particular steel, or concrete, in particular cellular
concrete, or plastic or wood, and preferably forms a wall or a floor for example of a ship, a
drilling rig or an industrial building. For fastening of a component 190 to the panel 100, a
through hole 200 is drilled into the component 190 and a blind bore 110, which defines a
depth direction 160 and at a depth T has a blind bore base 120, is drilled into the plate 100.
The through hole 200 and the blind bore 110 are preferably drilled one after the other. In the
exemplary embodiments which are not illustrated, the through hole and the blind bore are
produced in one single drilling operation, for example by drilling through the component into
the base element.
[0021]       The blind bore base 120 is conical with a cone opening angle a. Against the depth
direction 160 a force transmission surface 220, which has a surface area A as well as a
mean diameter d, adjoins the blind bore base. The force transmission surface 220 is

                                               -5
frustoconical with a cone opening half-angle B. Against the depth direction 160 a bevel 230,
which extends from an edge of the blind bore 110 in the depth direction 160 to a bevel depth
L and has a bevel angle of for example 450, adjoins the force transmission surface.
[0022]     A fastening element formed as a screw 130 with a shank 150, which has a
counter-force transmission means formed in particular as a self-tapping thread 140 for
transmission of force onto the force transmission surface 220, is screwed into the blind bore
110 in the depth direction 160. In this case the thread 140 extends from an end face 170 of
the shank 150 over a length contrary to the depth direction 160 which is greater than the
depth T of the blind bore 110. In exemplary embodiments which are not shown, the fastening
device is formed as a setting bolt or an expansion bolt, wherein the counter-force
transmission means is then formed by a smooth or roughened circumferential surface of the
shank. The thread 140 and preferably the shank 150 are formed cylindrically with a diameter
which is substantially the same as the mean diameter d. In exemplary embodiments which
are not shown, the thread and/or the shank is designed to be frustoconical, preferably with
an opening half-angle which is equal to the opening half-angle B.
[0023]     In this case D = 8 mm, T = 7.7 mm, B = 9', a = 118', L = 1 mm and d = 8 mm. On
the other hand, in exemplary embodiments which are not shown, the parameter values are D
= 6 mm, T = 5.7 mm, B = 0', a = 118', L = 0 mm and d = 6 mm, or respectively D = 4 mm, T
= 3.7 mm, B = 00, a = 118*, L = 0 mm und d = 5 mm.
[0024]     In order to make the full depth T of the blind bore 110 usable as effectively as
possible for transmission of force of the thread 140, on the one hand the depth T is
specifically predetermined, wherein the blind bore 110 is drilled for example with a stop bit or
by means of a power-operated drilling machine with depth stop. The depth T is only slightly
less than a thickness D of the base element 100, preferably less than 0.5 mm, particularly
preferably less than 0.2 mm, for example 0.1 mm. On the other hand, in the selection of the
screw 130 it should be ensured that the length of the thread is at least as great as the depth
T.
[0025]     The screw 130 has a head 180 which adjoins the shank 150 against the depth
direction 160, and the underside of the head facing in the depth direction forms an abutment
210 for pressing the component 190 onto the plate 100. The abutment 210 has an axial
spacing L, along which the thread 140 extends, relative to an end face 170 of the shank 150
along the depth direction 160. The component 190 is clamped between the abutment 210

                                                -6
and the plate 100 as an attachment and thus is fastened to the plate 100. In this case the
shank 150 of the screw 130 is preferably screwed into the blind bore 110 until the end face
170 rests or almost rests against the blind bore base 120. This is particularly advantageous
when the base element only has a small thickness in the depth direction, so that the
available depth of the blind bore is limited.
[0026]     The head 180 has an external drive formed for example as an external hexagon by
means of which the screw 130 is driven into the blind bore 110, in particular by a preferably
power-operated screwdriver, for example a cordless screwdriver. In exemplary embodiments
which are not shown, the head has an internal drive formed for example as a straight slot,
cross slot, hexalobe, internal hexagon or internal square. In further exemplary embodiments
which are not shown, the component is fastened to the screw and thus to the plate, wherein
preferably an eyelet, a hook or a loop of the component is placed over or attached to the
head of the screw.
[0027]     In exemplary embodiments which are not shown, the fastening element has a
further load application means for fastening the component to the base element, which,
additionally or alternatively to the head, is arranged on the head or shank and extends in
particular contrary to the depth direction. The fastening element is formed for example as a
bolt with a thread which is in particular standard, for example a metric or imperial thread, as
a further load application means, so that the component is screwed onto the fastening
element and thus fastened to the base element in particular by means of a nut. In further
exemplary embodiments which are not shown, the screw has an intermediate element which
surrounds the shank and which itself comprises a sealing element, preferably an elastomeric
element, and/or a covering element. An underside of the head facing in the depth direction
preferably forms an abutment for pressing the intermediate element onto the base element.
The intermediate element is then clamped between the abutment and the base element.
[0028]     In Figure 2 the surface area A of the force transmission surface is plotted in mm 2
over its mean diameter d in mm by way of example for various blind bore depths T. The
cone opening angle a is 1410 for all depicted curves, and the bevel depth L is 0 mm in each
case. It can be seen clearly that the surface area A has a distinct maximum for each blind
bore depth T, wherein the maxima lie on a curve 240. Likewise, by way of example, for a
surface tolerance of k = 0.2 a lower boundary line 250 and an upper boundary line 260 are
shown, between which the surface area A is reduced at most by 20% relative to its

                                                -7
respective maximum value. As can be easily seen, for the surface area A the following
correlation applies
 A         T[ 2
    = (-d/tn+rC                ~
so that the surface area A is maximum when
 d = (T - L) tan
                      2
[0029]       It is also assumed that the force which can be transmitted, at least in screw
connections, is proportional to the surface area of the force transmission surface.
[0030]       The invention has been described with reference to examples of a device for
fastening a component to a base element as well as a method for such fastening. The
features of the described embodiments can also be combined with one another in any way
within a single fastening device or a single method of production. It is pointed out that the
method according to the invention is also suitable for other purposes.

                                                -8
CLAIMS
1.         A method for fastening a component to a base element made in particular of metal
or an alloy, in which method there is produced in the base element a blind bore which
defines a depth direction and which has a force transmission surface of the surface area A
which has a depth T with T < 10 mm, in particular T < 8 mm, in particular T < 6 mm, in
particular T < 4 mm, in the depth direction, wherein the force transmission surface is of
frustoconical form with a cone opening half-angle     P of 0' to 20' and a mean diameter d,
wherein the blind bore has a conical blind bore base with a cone opening angle a of 600 to
180', in particular 88' bis 138', in particular 980 to 138', and, at the edge thereof, a bevel
which extends in the depth direction to a bevel depth L of 0 mm bis 2 mm, in particular 0 mm
to 0.5 mm, wherein the mean diameter d of the force transmission surface A is at least
 d = (1 - V)(T - L) tan
and at most
 d = (1+ V)(T - L) tan
with a maximum surface tolerance k, wherein k = 0.3, in particular k = 0.2, in particular k =
0.1, wherein, in the method, a fastening element is anchored in the blind bore by way of the
force transmission surface, and wherein the component is held by the fastening element.
2.         The method according to claim 1, wherein the blind bore consists of the blind bore
base, the force transmission surface and the bevel.
3.         The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the fastening
element is anchored only by means of the force transmission surface in the blind bore.
4.         The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the fastening
element has an external thread which is in particular self-tapping.
5.         The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the force
transmission surface has an internal thread which is in particular complementary to the
external thread.

                                             -9
6.          The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the fastening
element is pressed, glued, welded, soldered and/or screwed into the blind bore.
7.          The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein a bevel angle
between the bevel and the depth direction is between 300 and 600, in particular between 400
and 500, in particular 450.
8.          The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein a driving angle
between a surface of the base element angle and the depth direction is at least 800, in
particular at least 850, in particular 900.
9.          The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the fastening
element is made of metal, an alloy or a plastic.
10.         The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the blind bore is
drilled into the base element.
11.         The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the depth T is
predetermined with the aid of a stop bit.
12.         The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the depth T is
predetermined with the aid of a depth stop.
13.         The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the fastening
element has a shank with a counter-force transmission surface and in particular has a head,
and wherein the counter-force transmission surface interacts with the force transmission
surface in order to anchor the fastening element in the blind bore.
14.         The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the mean diameter
d is greater than or equal to the depth T.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
