             ABSTRACT
             The invention described herein is directed to a deployment system for an
              implantable medical device comprising: an expandable medical device having
              a larger deployed diameter and a smaller, compacted diameter for delivery; a
             first sheath surrounding the medical device in the smaller, compacted
             diameter, wherein the first sheath is everted back over itself, and wherein an
             outer portion of the first sheath surrounds an inner portion of the first sheath;
             and a second sheath located between the inner and outer portions of the first
             sheath, wherein the first sheath and the second sheath are removable by an
             application of two separate tensile forces including an application of a first
             tensile force to the first sheath and a second tensile force to the second
             sheath.
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

   1/8
        1 N
:x   x:
:x   x:
~x   x      rJ(
:x   x:
:X   X:
:x   x:L
:X   X:
:X   X:       4
:X   X:
:X   X:
~x   x~
:x   x:
:X   X:
 x   x
:X   X:
:x   x:
~x   x~
:X   X:
:x   x:
:X   X:
:X   X:

             IMPLANTABLE MEDICAL DEVICE CONSTRAINT AND DEPLOYMENT
                                                   APPARATUS
                               CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]                     This application is a divisional application of Australian Application No.
2015226907, the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                       BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                                                Field of the Invention
     [0002]                The invention relates to apparatus and methods for the delivery and
deployment of implantable medical devices.
                                           Discussion of the Related Art
     [0003]                With the growing proliferation of sophisticated implantable medical
devices and more advanced treatment apparatus, and particularly medical devices
and treatments that are delivered and deployed through minimally invasive
procedures such as stents, stent-grafts, balloons, filters, occluders, and the like,
there has been a growing interest in finding improved devices and methods to
effectively constrain, deliver, and/or deploy such devices and treatment apparatus.
     [0004]                 Examples of previous devices and methods for delivering and
deploying such devices include the use of everting sleeves to constrain the
implantable device and then deploy the devices in a controlled manner in situ, such
as the devices described in US Patent 7,285,130 to Austin, US Application 2008
0281398 to Koss et al., and PCT Application W013025470 to Cully et al. The use of
everting sleeves as described in these references has many advantages, but there
are limitations on length, geometry, tensile strength, and other properties of the
devices that can be effectively mounted in and deployed from many of these
sleeves. Additionally, prior everting sleeves deployment apparatus have been
challenged to balance adequate constraint of implantable devices prior to
deployment against accurate and easy deployment of the implantable devices in the
desired location in the body.
                                                          1
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

      [0005]               Another prior constraint and delivery apparatus that has been
technically and commercially successful is described in US Patent 6,315,792 to
Armstrong et al. This apparatus employs a knitted fiber cover that constrains the
implantable device prior to deployment, which is then removed to allow the device to
deploy in the desired location in the body. While this apparatus works very well, it
also has limitations on the size and types of implantable devices that it can
effectively constrain and deploy. One concern with this and other fiber constraints is
that fibrous covers may not smoothly mount and/or deploy from certain device
geometries or features (e.g., fibers may catch of barbs or other features on the
implantable device).
     [0006]                 Even more recent interest in providing implantable devices and
treatment apparatus that are covered with drugs or other bioactive agent has further
increased the challenge of effectively constraining and delivering such devices. The
act of pulling a drug coated device through a funnel into a constraining apparatus
runs a serious risk that bioactive agent may be removed or displaced during the
loading and mounting process, which could compromise the effectiveness of the
device once deployed. Similarly, interaction between the constraint and the
implantable device during deployment also creates a risk that the bioactive agent
may not remain properly applied to the device once fully deployed.
                                          SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
     [0007]                 In a first aspect, the present invention provides a deployment system
for an implantable medical device comprising: an expandable medical device having
a larger deployed diameter and a smaller, compacted diameter for delivery; a first
sheath surrounding the medical device in the smaller, compacted diameter, wherein
the first sheath is everted back over itself, and wherein an outer portion of the first
sheath surrounds an inner portion of the first sheath; and a second sheath located
between the inner and outer portions of the first sheath, wherein the first sheath and
the second sheath are removable by an application of two separate tensile forces
including an application of a first tensile force to the first sheath and a second tensile
force to the second sheath.
                                                           2
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

      [0008]                In some embodiments, there is provided a scalable delivery system
that protects medical devices during delivery in a body while providing simple,
accurate, and reliable device deployment. The delivery system is configured so that
loading and deployment forces are not directly related to device diameter, length, or
design, thus providing a more useful delivery system that can be employed across
various delivered device configurations and product lines.
     [0009]                Among the advantages of the delivery system are: more predictable
deployment forces that facilitate smoother and more predictable device delivery
(e.g., by reducing adverse interaction between the implantable device and the
constraint, there is less risk of snagging and catheter displacement); ability to deploy
devices with irregular features (e.g., scallops, barbs, anchors, apices, and other
features that may interfere with smooth operation of deployment apparatus); ability to
create devices with smaller device delivery profiles; ability to contain delivery lines
within a sheath so as to reduce or eliminate "bow-stringing" of the line during
deployment; and ability to protect an implantable device from shear forces during
manufacture and delivery, which is particularly useful to shield various coatings (e.g.,
drugs or other bio-active materials) applied to the device from damage or premature
release.
     [0010]                A further benefit is that it imparts minimal stress to the delivered
device. In the present invention the delivered device is encapsulated prior to loading
and remains encapsulated until deployment. For drug delivery devices, this reduces
drug loss and particulation. This may also eliminate contact between device and
tooling during device mounting and isolates the device from surface shear during
loading and deployment. The present invention also can eliminate tensioning of
device during loading so as to allow for lower implantable device mass and lower
profile.
     [0011]                 In one embodiment, a deployment system for an implantable medical
device is provided that comprises an expandable medical device having first and
second ends and having a larger deployed diameter and a smaller compacted
diameter for delivery; a sheath surrounding the compacted medical device, the
sheath everted back over itself, wherein an outer portion of the sheath surrounds an
inner portion of the sheath; and a filamentary constraining member configured to
unravel during deployment and located between the inner and outer portions of said
                                                           3
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

sheath such that the outer portion of the sheath surrounds the constraining member
from the first end to at least the second end of the medical device, wherein the
medical device is deployed to the larger diameter by an application of simultaneous
actuation forces to the sheath and the filamentary constraining member.
      [0012]                In another aspect, the invention provides a method for loading an
implantable device on a deployment system is provided that comprises: providing an
implantable device; placing the implantable device within a sheath element that
includes a segment extending beyond the implantable device; providing a funnel and
a constraining element; applying tension on the segment of the sheath element to
pull the sheath element and the implantable device through the funnel so as to
compact the implantable device within the sheath element and into the constraining
element so that the implantable device is constrained in a compacted state; wherein
the sheath element and constraining element are configured to be removed to
deploy the implantable device in use.
      [0013]                In another aspect of the invention, a medical device deployment
system is provided that comprises: a first sheath and a second sheath, wherein each
of the first and second sheaths is non-proportionally actuated by the application of
tension to tensile members connected to each of the first and second sheaths,
wherein on deployment by the application of a single input force, the input force is
variably distributed between said tensile members.
      [0014]                In another aspect of the invention, a medical device deployment
system is provided that comprises: two or more pulleys that engage through a
rotating planetary rolling element, wherein each of the pulleys is configured to
accumulate a deployment line, wherein the deployment lines actuate deployment of
the medical device.
                                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
      [0015]               The accompanying drawings are included to provide a further
understanding of the invention and are incorporated in and constitute a part of this
specification, illustrate embodiments of the invention, and together with the
description serve to explain the principles of the invention.
                                                         4
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

      [0016]                FIG. 1 is a side cross-section view of an implantable device
constrained in a delivery and deployment apparatus of the present invention.
      [0017]                FIG. 2 is a side view of an implantable device prior to constraint into
the delivery and deployment apparatus of the present invention.
     [0018]                 FIG. 3 is a side view of a traction tube sheath element of the present
invention surrounding the implantable device shown in FIG. 2.
      [0019]                FIG 4 is a side view, shown partially in cross-section, of the sheath
element and implantable device combination illustrated in FIG 3 being drawn through
a funnel into a constraining member.
      [0020]                FIG. 5 is a side view, shown partially in cross-section, of the sheath
element and implantable device combination illustrated in FIG 3 being radially
compacted and then drawn into a constraining member.
      [0021]                FIG. 6 is a side view of the sheath element, implantable device, and
constraining member combination created in the process illustrated by FIG. 4 or FIG.
5 shown prior to mounting on a delivery catheter.
      [0022]                FIG. 7 is a side view, shown partially in cross-section, of the sheath
element, implantable device, and constraining member combination illustrated in
FIG. 6, shown mounted on a delivery catheter and having traction lines formed to
effectuate removal of the sheath element and constraining member during
deployment of the implantable device.
     [0023]                 FIG. 8 is a side view, shown partially in cross-section, of the
implantable device and delivery apparatus shown in FIG. 7, with the implantable
device shown partially deployed.
     [0024]                 FIG. 9 through FIG. 12 are schematic representations of various
apparatus that may be used to effectuate simultaneous removal of multiple traction
lines that may be employed with the present invention.
     [0025]                 FIG. 13 is a top plan view, shown partially in cross-section, of a
differential gear that may be used to effectuate simultaneous removal of multiple
traction lines that may be employed with the present invention.
     [0026]                 FIG. 14 is a cross-section view of another embodiment of a differential
gear that may be used to effectuate simultaneous removal of multiple traction lines
that may be employed with the present invention.
                                                          5
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

      [0027]                FIG. 15 is a side view, shown partially in cross-section, of the sheath
element and implantable device combination illustrated in FIG 3 being drawn into a
transfer funnel, with a portion of the sheath element everted over the transfer funnel.
      [0028]                FIG. 16 is a cross-section side view of a second sheath element
everted over a transfer tube.
      [0029]                FIG. 17 is a side view, shown partially in cross-section, of the
implantable device, sheath element, and transfer funnel combination shown in FIG.
15 and the second sheath element and transfer tube combination shown in FIG. 16
arranged in abutted orientation with each other and with the implantable device
shown partially transferred from the transfer funnel to the transfer tube.
      [0030]                FIG. 18 is a side view, shown partially in cross-section, of the
implantable device mounted within the second sheath following the transfer process
illustrated in FIG. 17.
               DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATED EMBODIMENTS
      [0031]               The present invention provides improved apparatus to constrain,
deliver, and/or deploy a medical device. The invention may be used in conjunction
with a wide variety of devices that may be temporarily or permanently deployed in a
patient, including without limitation stents, stent-grafts, balloons, filters, traps,
occluders, devices for delivering drugs or other therapeutic substances or
treatments, and the like. As such, the terms "medical device" and "implantable
device" in the present application are intended to be broadly construed to
encompass any device that is temporarily or permanently placed in a body.
      [0032]               The apparatus of the present invention may be employed to deliver
self-expanding devices, devices that are expandable by balloons or other means,
self-expanding / expandable hybrid devices, and devices that are not intended to
change dimensions in situ.
      [0033]                Particular embodiments of the present invention are described below
by way of illustration. It should be understood by one of skill in the art that the
present inventors do not intend to limit the scope of the present invention to these
particular embodiments.
                                                         6
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

      [0034]                FIG. 1 shows an implantable device 20, in this case a stent or stent
graft, mounted on a catheter 22 and constrained in a deployment apparatus 24 of the
present invention. The deployment apparatus 24 comprises an everted traction tube
sheath element 26 having an outer layer 28 and an inner layer 30. Contained within
the outer layer 28 and the inner layer 30 of the sheath element 26 is a constraining
member 32. The deployment apparatus 24 includes a first deployment line 34
operatively coupled to actuate the sheath 26 and a second deployment line 36
operatively coupled to actuate the constraining member 32.
        [0035]             As is explained in greater detail below, the sheath element 26 is
  constructed from a thin, flexible material that is adapted to surround and protect the
  implantable device. The flexible material should have sufficient longitudinal tensile
  strength so that it can serve as a traction tube to help pull the implantable device 20
  through compaction apparatus and into the constraining member 32 during the
  manufacturing process. Preferably the flexible material should also have sufficient
  coverage and structural integrity to protect any bioactive coating or other surface
  treatment on the implantable device until the device is ultimately deployed in vivo.
  It may further be desirable for the flexible sheath to be constructed from a lubricious
  material that can aid in the manufacturing process described below.
        [0036]             The sheath element 26 is not required to provide any significant
  constraint to the implantable device 20 as that function, if required, may be primarily
  provided by the constraining member 32. As such, the sheath element 26 may be
  constructed from very thin and flexible material that exhibits some degree of radial
  compliance. In fact, it may be desirable for the sheath element 26 undergo necking
  when under longitudinal tension so as to aid in the compaction process during
  manufacturing.
        [0037]             The flexible material of the sheath element 26 may be formed from a
  variety of different materials, including without limitation: a continuous tube or sheet
  of material; a woven, knitted, or other fabric material; non-woven materials such as
  a felt; or a composite of two or more different materials. Suitable materials for use
  as a sheath 26 include tubes or sheets of material that may comprise but are not
  limited to: polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), expanded PTFE, polyester, polyethylene,
  nylon, rayon, polyimide, polyamide, polypropylene, and/or polyurethane.
                                                         7
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

        [0038]             The sheath element 26 may be formed from a radially distensible
  material and/or it may be constructed in a wide variety of configurations. For
  example, the material may be radially distensible, or radially necking, and/or have a
  wide range of strength or other properties. Additionally, it may be beneficial to
  construct the sheath element in the form of a pleated sheath or a helically pleated
  sheath so as to assist in radial compliance or release of the device.
        [0039]             As is shown in FIG. 1, in one embodiment of the present invention the
  sheath element 26 is constructed from a continuous tube that is split at its trailing
  end, at point 37 in FIG. 1, so as to form the first deployment line 34 from the same
  material as the sheath 26. The deployment line 34 may be formed by, for example,
  spirally winding, heating, or otherwise manipulating the split tube into thread
  structure. Further, other materials, such as a thread of polyamide, polyimide, PTFE,
  ePTFE, polyester or similar material, may be used alone or added to the split tube
  to provide a more robust deployment line construct.
        [0040]              For deployment of a stent or stent-graft device, a suitable sheath
  element 26 may comprise a tubular sheath of expanded PTFE with a thickness of
  approximately 0.0015 to 0.15 mm, a longitudinal tensile strength of approximately
  0.5 to 10 kgf. The sheath should have sufficient toughness to withstand any strains
  that may be applied by the constrained device (e.g., forces from stent apices, fins,
  anchors, etc.). As is explained below, for some applications it may be desirable for
  the sheath to have the ability to neck to an intermediate diameter when longitudinal
  tension is applied to the sheath. The sheath may be formed from any suitable base
  material, including without limitation a tube, sheet, and/or fibers (e.g., weave or
  braid of material).
        [0041]             As has been noted, the constraining member 32 serves to provide the
  effective constraint for the implantable device 20. As such, the constraining
  member 32 should be formed from a relatively non-compliant material that will resist
  any expansion force delivered by the implantable device 20. The constraining
  member 32 may be formed from a variety of different materials, including without
  limitation: a continuous tube or sheet of material; a woven, knitted, or other fabric
  material; non-woven materials such as a felt; or a composite of two or more
  different materials. Additionally, it may be beneficial to construct the constraining
  member 32 in the form of a pleated sheath or a helically pleated sheath, such as
                                                        8
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

  that disclosed in US Patent 8,845,712 to Irwin et al., so as to assist in radial
  compliance or release of the device. Suitable materials for use as a constraining
  member 32 include tubes, sheets, or fibers of material that may comprise but are
  not limited to: polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), expanded PTFE, polyester,
  polyethylene, nylon, rayon, polyimide, polyamide, polypropylene, and/or
  polyurethane.
     [0042]                The constraining member 32 may be effectively formed from a
filamentary material, such that described in US Patent 6,315,792 to Armstrong et al.
("Armstrong et al. Patent"), incorporated in its entity by reference herein. The knitted
constraining members described in that patent provide very effective device
constraint yet easily unravel from the implantable device during deployment. As has
been noted, the Armstrong et al. Patent's constraints have proven to be very
accurate and effective in implantable device delivery and deployment. However, by
combining the constraining member 32 of Armstrong et al. Patent with the everted
sheath element 26 described above, significant benefits have been demonstrated. It
has been determined that if the filamentary constraints described in the Armstrong et
al. Patent are used alone, the fibers can snag on features of some implantable
device constructions (e.g., certain forms of anchors, barbs, stent apices, etc.), which
can create difficulties in mounting the constraint during manufacture and/or in
releasing the constraint during deployment. By sandwiching the filamentary
constraining member construct of the Armstrong et al. Patent within the everted
sheath element 26, the sheath element 26 serves to cover and isolate any
problematic features on the implantable device 20 so that the constraining member
32 can be readily mounted on the implantable device 20 during manufacture and
then readily removed from the implantable device 20 during deployment. This
benefit greatly enhances the types of implantable devices that can now be
successfully deployed using the apparatus of the Armstrong et al. Patent.
     [0043]                The second deployment line 36 may comprise the same material as
the constraining member 26, such as when the constraining member 26 is formed in
accordance with certain embodiments of the Armstrong et al. Patent. Alternatively,
other materials, such as a thread of polyamide, polyimide, PTFE, ePTFE, polyester
or similar material, may be used alone or added to the deployment line 36 to provide
a more robust construct.
                                                     9
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

      [0044]               The process for constructing the deployment apparatus 24 of the
present invention is illustrated in FIG. 2 through FIG. 8. FIG. 2 illustrates an
implantable device 20, such as a stent or stent-graft, prior to mounting into the
deployment apparatus 24 of the present invention. In FIG. 3, the implantable device
20 is placed within sheath element 26.
     [0045]                 In FIG 4 the sheath element 26 and implantable device 20 combination
illustrated in FIG 3 is drawn through a funnel 38 into a constraining member 32. As
has been noted, the sheath element 26 is serving as a traction tube to provide a
smooth and even surface to help ease the implantable device 20 through the funnel
38 and into the constraining member 32. In this regard, any coating that may be
applied to the implantable device 20 is thus protected from abrasion from the funnel
38 and constraining member 32. Additionally, to whatever degree that the sheath
element 26 undergoes any necking during the process of pull-down through the
funnel 38, the necking force further assists in the compaction of the implantable
device 20.
     [0046]                 It should be appreciated that the sheath element 26 is also isolating the
implantable device 20 from the forces necessary to pull the device 20 through the
funnel 38 and into the constraining member 32. In more conventional compaction
processes, tether lines would typically be applied to one end of the implantable
device 20 in order to pull it through a funnel into a constraint. As such, an
implantable device must be constructed from materials and in a manner that allows it
to withstand the substantial longitudinal forces necessary to compact it to its delivery
dimensions (that is, if the implantable device is not sufficiently robust, it will be
damaged under the forces of the tether lines during the compaction process). The
compaction forces become significantly greater for longer implantable device
constructs and when greater compaction ratios are undertaken. By using the sheath
member of the present invention to apply traction forces along the entire length of
the implantable device, it is possible to effectively compact implantable devices
which would otherwise be too fragile to undergo compaction through conventional
traction lines and/or to apply far greater compaction forces (and thus achieve far
greater compaction ratios) than would previously be possible. In this regard the
sheath element provides augmented axial strength to the implantable device during
the compaction and loading processes.
                                                        10
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

      [0047]                An alternative compaction process is illustrated in FIG. 5. In this
embodiment, the sheath element 26 and implantable device 20 combination
illustrated in FIG 3 is compacted by a compression apparatus 40, such as a radial
crush device. In this embodiment the sheath element 26 facilitates the compacted
implantable device to be more readily pulled out of the compression apparatus and
into constraining member 32, with all of the benefits previous noted.
     [0048]                 Whether compacted by the process illustrated in FIG. 4 or FIG. 5 or
through any other suitable means, as is shown in FIG. 6 once the implantable device
20 is compacted into the constraining member 32 there is extra sheath element 26
extending from both sides of the compacted device 20. As is shown in FIG. 7, the
constrained device 20 may then be mounted on a delivery catheter 22 and the extra
sheath element 26 may then be everted back over the constraining member 32 so as
to sandwich the constraining member 32 within the inner layer 30 and outer layer 28
of the sheath element 26. Deployment line 34 may then be attached to or formed
out of the sheath element 26. Likewise, deployment line 36 may then be attached to
or formed from constraining member 32 (for example, if the constraining member 32
is constructed from a knitted material, such as that described in the Armstrong et al.
Patent, the deployment line 36 may comprise a cord formed from the unraveled
constraining member 32).
     [0049]                 It should be appreciated that for some applications the sheath element
26 may also be employed as a single layer. Among the benefits of employing a
single layer sheath element are the opportunity to provide reduced delivery profile
and decreased length of deployment line.
     [0050]                 Once constructed in the manner described herein, the implantable
device 20 and deployment apparatus 24 can be delivered to a desired treatment site
in a patient in a conventional manner. It should be appreciated, however, that the
encapsulation of the implantable device 20 within the sheath element 26 provides
additional protection to the implantable device 20 during the delivery process. As
has been noted, when an implantable device 20 is provided with a drug or other
bioactive coating, it is desirable that the coating is not exposed prior to reaching the
intended deployment site. With certain constraint constructs, such as open mesh or
open filament braids and the like, drug coatings will necessarily be exposed to blood
and tissue long before reaching the intended deployment site, which can lead to
                                                        11
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

possible abrasion of the coating from the device and unintended release of the
bioactive materials in undesirable locations in the body. However, through use of the
sheath member 26 of the present invention, the bioactive coating can be
safeguarded against damage or premature release independent of how open the
structure of the constraining devices may be.
      [0051]                Once the constrained device 20 is properly positioned in the body, the
device 20 can be released by actuating the two deployment lines 34 and 36, with
each of the constraining member 32 and the sheath element 26 pulling away from
the device upon actuation. This process is illustrated in FIG. 8, with implantable
device 20 shown beginning to deploy from the deployment apparatus 24.
      [0052]               While there are many noted benefits in providing a deployment
apparatus that includes both a sheath element and a constraining member, it has
been determined that there is one challenge when trying to remove two covers
simultaneously from the constrained implantable device. Since the sheath element
26 and the constraining member 32 may be constructed of different materials and
comprise different forms, they are unlikely to retract at the same rate or in the same
manner. Additionally, depending on construction, the deployment lines may not
actuate at linear rates, thus requiring some degree of modulation of the rate of
actuation of each of the lines. This presents the clinician with an undesirable
challenge of trying to actuate the two deployment lines 34 and 36 simultaneously but
at different rates.
      [0053]               The present inventors have determined that this challenge can be fully
addressed by employing one of a variety of differential mechanisms that allow the
clinician to apply a single deployment force to the deployment apparatus 24 while the
differential mechanism automatically modulates the rate of actuation of each of the
deployment lines 34 and 36.
      [0054]                FIG. 9 through FIG. 12 illustrate various apparatus that may be used to
effectuate simultaneous removal of multiple traction lines that may be employed with
the present invention. FIG. 9 illustrates the simplest form of differential whereby the
two deployment lines 34 and 36 are attached together at their terminal ends 42 and
44, respectively, and a pulley 46 is employed so that varying retraction rates on each
of the deployment lines 34, 36 are instantly accommodated. The clinician simply
applies a single deployment force 48 to the pulley and the sheath element and
                                                         12
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

constraining member will retract at the same rate while any rate differential between
the two are corrected by the pulley 46.
      [0055]                FIG. 10 illustrates another form of differential whereby any difference in
rate of withdrawal is pre-calculated and different fixed ratio pulleys 50, 52 are used to
withdraw each of the deployment lines 34, 36 at their predetermined rates.
     [0056]                 FIG. 11 illustrates still another form of differential whereby a spring or
other passive displacement mechanism 54 is associated with the deployment line 34
that is determined to require the most slack during deployment (that is, the
deployment line that needs to be withdrawn slower). In this manner, the clinician can
pull both lines at an even rate but the lines will effectively withdraw at their
appropriate differential rates.
     [0057]                 FIG. 12 illustrates yet another form of differential whereby a clutch
drive 56 is employed so that a driven pulley 58 takes up one of the deployment lines
36 at a set rate and a friction interface 60 between the driven pulley 58 and a second
pulley 62 provides a clutch mechanism so that deployment line 34 will accumulate at
a slower rate of speed.
     [0058]                A more sophisticated differential mechanism is illustrated in FIG. 13. In
this embodiment, two pulleys 64, 66 are provided, each associated with deployment
lines 34, 36, respectively. Pulley bevel gears 68a, 68b and planetary bevel gears
70a, 70b are mounted between the two pulleys 64, 66 so as to accommodate
different rates of actuation of each of the pulleys 64, 66. A clinician-actuated thumb
wheel 72 is provided to actuate the planetary gears through a center shaft with
thumb wheel fixed at one end, and similarly to the clutch mechanism illustrated in
FIG. 12, the planetary gears 70a, 70b serve to accommodate different actuation
rates between the two pulleys 64, 66. The bevel gears may be chosen to actuate
each of the pulleys at their appropriate rates. For example, the sum of rotation of
pulleys 64 and 66 can be established to be, for instance, 2x the input rotation of the
thumb wheel 72.
     [0059]                A similar differential mechanism is illustrated in FIG. 14. In this
embodiment, pulleys 74 and 76 are each associated with each of the deployment
lines (not shown) and are attached, respectively, to ring gears 78, 80. Planetary
gears 82, 84 are each provided with a clinician-actuated thumb wheel 86 that
engages directly with the planetary gears.
                                                           13
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

      [0060]                It should be understood that the various differential mechanisms
described herein are by way of illustration only and that any of these or other
mechanism may be employed within the scope of the present invention. Further
various improvements or refinements to these mechanisms are also within the scope
of the present invention, including, for example, that a motor or other drive
mechanism may be substituted for thumb wheels in the embodiments of FIG. 13 and
FIG. 14.
      [0061]                For some applications, it may be beneficial to transfer the implantable
device to an intermediate compacted diameter prior to final compaction and
mounting of the implantable device for delivery. For example, by compacting the
implantable device in multiple steps, a thinner and less robust sheath may be used
for final device compaction and delivery, which may allow for desirable smaller
device delivery dimensions. One method of accomplishing is to modify the mounting
procedure illustrated in FIG. 2 to 6, above, with additional process steps as
illustrated in FIG. 15 to 18.
      [0062]                In FIG. 15 the sheath element 26 and implantable device 20
combination illustrated in FIG 3 is drawn into a transfer funnel 88, with a segment 90
of the sheath element 26 everted over the transfer funnel 88. The compaction of the
implantable device 20 into the transfer funnel 88 may be accomplished by applying
tension 92 to the segment 90 so as to draw the sheath 26 and device 20 into the
funnel 88. Once the implantable device 20 is positioned at the tip 94 of the transfer
funnel 80, the device is ready for transfer.
      [0063]                FIG. 16 shows a second sheath element 96 that is everted over a
transfer tube 98. The second sheath element 96 is configured to be a diameter
smaller than the diameter of sheath element 26. The transfer tube 98 is constructed
from an essentially non-compliant material, such as a metal or plastic hypotube. The
transfer tube 98 has a diameter that is approximately equal to that of the tip 94 of the
transfer funnel 88. A portion 100 of the second sheath on the outside of the transfer
tube 98 may be compacted or "scrunched" to make actuation of the second sheath
easier in the transfer step described below.
     [0064]                 In order to accomplish transfer of the implantable device 20 from the
sheath element 26 to the second sheath element 98, the implantable device 20,
sheath element 26, and transfer funnel 88 combination shown in FIG. 15 is placed in
                                                        14
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

abutted orientation with the second sheath element 96 and transfer tube 98
combination shown in FIG. 16, as is shown in FIG 17.                   By applying tension 92 to the
sheath element 26 and simultaneously applying tension 102 to the second sheath
element 98, as shown in FIG. 17, the implantable device 20 will transfer from the
transfer funnel 88 and sheath element 26 into the transfer tube 98 and second
sheath element 96. This transfer is shown partially completed in FIG. 17.
      [0065]                Once the implantable device 20 is fully transferred into the second
sheath element 96, the device 20 and second sheath 98 can be removed from the
transfer tube, as is shown in FIG. 18. The implantable device 20 is now contained at
a small diameter and/or contained in a sheath with thinner wall thickness than the
device and sheath illustrated in FIG 3. At this stage the combined device and sheath
can be further processed as previously described with respect to FIG. 4 through 6.
      [0066]                It should be appreciated from this description of FIG. 15 to 18 that the
present invention may be practiced through a number of ways whereby the
implantable device may be partially compacted to one or more intermediate
diameters during the manufacturing process.
     [0067]                As has been explained, the present invention provides many benefits
over prior medical device deployment apparatus, including without limitation:
     [0068]                 (1) The present invention provides a delivery system that protects
medical device during delivery in a body while providing simple, accurate, and
reliable device deployment that is scalable to work on a wide variety of implantable
device forms and sizes.
      [0069]                (2) The delivery system is configured so that loading and deployment
forces are not directly related to device diameter, length, or design, thus allowing a
more universal delivery system across various delivered device configurations and
product lines. In this regard, forces required to constrain implantable devices and
deploy implantable devices can be decoupled from the length and other properties of
the implantable devices.
      [0070]                (3) By employing the sheath element to present a more consistent
surface on the outside of the implantable device, deployment forces may be
smoother during delivery so as to minimize catheter movement (for example,
increases in delivery force due to adverse interaction between the implantable
device and the constraint can be avoided). Similarly, the present invention can
                                                        15
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

accommodate deployment of devices with irregular features (e.g., scallops, barbs,
anchors, apices, and other features that may otherwise interfere with smooth
operation of deployment apparatus).
     [0071]                 (4) The use of the sheath element may help reduce device delivery
profiles, both by allowing compaction forces to be decoupled from device longitudinal
tensile strength and by providing a smoother and possibly more lubricious surface on
the outside of the implantable device to allow for easier compaction of the device.
By eliminating direct tensioning of device during loading, the present invention also
allows for lower implantable device mass and lower profile.
     [0072]                 (5) The present invention can be configured so as to contain delivery
lines within a sheath element in order to reduce or eliminate "bow-stringing" of the
line during deployment.
     [0073]                 (6) By encapsulating the implantable device prior to loading and
keeping it encapsulate until deployment, the present invention imparts minimal stress
to the implantable device. For drug delivery devices, this can reduce drug loss and
particulation during handling of the device in both manufacture and use. In this
regard, the encapsulation of the device can reduce or eliminate contact between
device and tooling during device loading and mounting and also may isolate the
device from surface shear and other damage during delivery and deployment.
      [0074]                It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications
and variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the spirit
or scope of the invention. Thus, it is intended that the present invention cover the
modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of
the appended claims and their equivalents.
      [0075]                It is to be understood that, if any prior art publication is referred to
herein, such reference does not constitute an admission that the publication forms a
part of the common general knowledge in the art, in Australia or any other country.
      [0076]                In the claims which follow and in the preceding description of the
invention, except where the context requires otherwise due to express language or
necessary implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising" is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence of the stated
features but not to preclude the presence or addition of further features in various
embodiments of the invention.
                                                           16
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

WHAT IS CLAIMED IS:
1.            Deployment system for an implantable medical device comprising:
             an expandable medical device having a larger deployed diameter and a
smaller, compacted diameter for delivery;
             a first sheath surrounding the medical device in the smaller, compacted
diameter, wherein the first sheath is everted back over itself, and wherein an outer
portion of the first sheath surrounds an inner portion of the first sheath; and
             a second sheath located between the inner and outer portions of the first
sheath, wherein the first sheath and the second sheath are removable by an
application of two separate tensile forces including an application of a first tensile
force to the first sheath and a second tensile force to the second sheath.
2.                         The deployment system of claim 1, wherein the medical device is self
expanding.
3.                         The deployment system of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the outer portion
of the first sheath coaxially surrounds the inner portion of the first sheath.
4.                         The deployment system of any one of any of the preceding claims,
wherein the two separate tensile forces cause withdrawal of the first sheath and
second sheath at two different rates.
5.                         The deployment system of claim 4, wherein the two different rates
comprise varying differential rates.
6.                         The deployment system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the medical device includes a bio-active coating, and wherein the first sheath acts to
protect the bio-active coating during delivery of the medical device.
7.                         The deployment system of claim 6, wherein the bio-active coating
comprises a drug coating.
8.                         The deployment system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the first sheath includes a helical pleat.
                                                     17
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

9.                         The deployment system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the medical device has limited axial strength and is protected from damage during
delivery by augmented axial strength provided by the first sheath.
10.                        The deployment system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the interaction of the first sheath and the second sheath serve to decouple
deployment force from the length of the implantable device.
11.                        The deployment system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the second sheath comprises a filament that unravels upon the application of the
second tensile force to the filament.
12.                        The deployment system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein
the first sheath comprises a filament that unravels upon the application of the first
tensile force to the filament.
13.          The deployment system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the outer
portion of the sheath surrounds the second sheath from the first end to at least the
second end of the medical device
14.                        A method for loading an implantable device on a deployment system,
the method comprising:
                            providing an implantable device;
                            placing the implantable device within a sheath element that includes a
segment extending beyond the implantable device;
                            providing a funnel and a constraining element; and
                           applying tension on the segment of the sheath element to pull the
sheath element and the implantable device through the funnel so as to compact the
implantable device within the sheath element and into the constraining element so
that the implantable device is constrained in a compacted state;
                           wherein the sheath element and the constraining element are
configured to be removed to deploy the implantable device.
                                                        18
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

15.          The method of claim 14, further comprising further compacting the
implantable device prior to use following compaction of the implantable device
through the funnel.
16.          The method of claim 14 or claim 15, further comprising:
              providing a first deployment line for the sheath element and providing a
second deployment line for the constraining element; and
              arranging the first deployment line and the second deployment line such that
the first and second deployments lines are simultaneously actuatable.
17.          A medical device deployment system comprising:
              a first sheath and a second sheath, wherein each of the first and second
sheaths is non-proportionally actuated by the application of tension to tensile
members connected to each of the first and second sheaths, wherein an application
of a single input force operates to deploy each of the first and second sheaths, the
input force being variably distributable between the tensile members.
18.          The deployment system of claim 17, wherein the single input force is variably
distributed between the tensile members through use of a pulley.
19.          The deployment system of claim 17, wherein the single input force is variably
distributed between the tensile members through use of a differential element.
20.          The deployment system of claim 17, wherein the single input force is variably
distributed between the tensile members through use of a clutch mechanism.
21.          A medical device deployment system comprising:
             two or more pulleys that engage through a rotating planetary rolling element,
wherein each of the pulleys is configured to accumulate a deployment line, wherein
the deployment lines actuate deployment of a medical device.
                                                   19
10165245_1 (GHMatters) P103956.AU.1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
