CALCULATION METHOD FOR COMPRESSED AIR-FLOW RATE,
CALCULATION DEVICE THEREOF, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
ABSTRACT
A compressed air-flow rate calculation method of the present invention includes storing, in a
storage device (13), time series data of a compressed air-flow rate used in each of plurality of
production facilities during an operation period, and performing simulation. Simulation includes
generating, for each of the plurality of production facilities, time series data on the compressed
air-flow rate in each of the production facilities during a prescribed period by acquiring from the
storage device (13) the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate in each of the production
facilities during the operation period, whenever operation start timing is determined to have
come in each of the production facilities. Time series data on the total compressed air-flow rate
in the entire production line during the prescribed period is calculated by integrating the time
series data on the compressed air-flow rate in each of plurality of production facilities during the
prescribed period.

                   2/12
                  FIG. 2
                  START
                                    Slol
     INPUT ROUTE OF MAIN PIPING
                                    S102
   INPUT DIAMETER OF MAIN PIPING
                                    S103
INPUT NUMBER OF FACILITIES AND LAYOUT
                      ACR     AS104
   ACQUIRE AIR-FLOW RATE WAVEFORM
    FROM AIR-FLOW RATE WAVEFORM DB
                              S105
             IS THERE SPECIAL           NO
                WAVEFORM?
                 YES
                                  ,S106
     DIGITIZE SPECIAL WAVEFORM
  , S107              ,?
  UPDATE AIR-FLOW RATE WAVEFORM DB
                      ,,            S108
        INPUT NUMBER AND POSITION
     OF STANDARD IN-PROCESS STOCKS
                                    S109
            INPUT TACT TIME
                                    S110
         INPUT SIMULATION TIME
                   END

                                                   1
CALCULATION METHOD FOR COMPRESSED AIR-FLOW RATE,
CALCULATION DEVICE THEREOF, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
Field of the Invention
[0001] The present invention relates to a compressed air-flow rate calculation method for
calculating a total compressed air-flow rate used in an entire production line having a plurality
of production facilities that use compressed air. The present invention also relates to a
calculation device thereof, and a storage medium.
Description of Related Art
[0002] In a production line, compressed air may be used in a plurality of production facilities.
However, the plurality of production facilities are each different in operational status, which
makes it difficult to calculate an accurate total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire
production line.
[0003] When a compressor that generates a large amount of compressed air is selected as a
compressor for such a production line, the compressor' performance is often excessive for an
actual total compressed air-flow rate. This causes such disadvantages as an increased investment
cost due to increased purchase expense of the compressor, an increased running cost due to
increased electrical charges, and failed energy saving due to deteriorated energy efficiency.
[0004] Accordingly, it is preferable to select a compressor having a small output volume in
terms of the investment, the running cost, and the energy saving. However, when the
compressor having a small output volume is selected, it is necessary to adjust the total
compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line to be less than the compressed air
output volume generated by the compressor.
[0005] For example, Japanese Patent Application Publication No. 2010-128625 discloses a
technique that simulates, in a factory having a plurality of production facilities that use
compressed air, time series variation of a total compressed air-flow rate based on time series
data on the compressed air-flow rate in each of the production facilities and tact time, and

                                                   2
adjusts operation start and operation stop timing of any one of the production facilities based on
the simulation result so as to prevent the total compressed air-flow rate from becoming a
threshold or more.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0006] As described above, the technique disclosed in JP 2010-128625 A adjusts the operation
start and operation stop timing of any one of the production facilities so as to prevent the total
compressed air-flow rate from becoming the threshold or more. However, when the operation
start and operation stop timing of any one of the production facilities is arbitrarily changed in
the production line having a plurality of production facilities which are different in the timing of
starting and stopping the operation, a problem that finished products cannot be produced as
scheduled arises.
[0007] One of the solutions to the problem is to accurately calculate the total compressed air
flow rate used in the entire production line having a plurality of production facilities that use
compressed air, even in the case where the plurality of production facilities are each different in
the operation start and operation stop timing. That is, when the total compressed air-flow rate
used in the entire production line can accurately be calculated in such a situation as described
above, it becomes possible to select a compressor of a proper output volume. When the
compressor of the proper output volume can be selected, it becomes possible to eliminate the
necessity of adjusting the operation start and operation stop timing of any one of the production
facilities as disclosed in JP 2010-128625 A. As a result, finished products can be produced as
scheduled. Furthermore, when the compressor of the proper output volume can be selected, the
compressor having excessive performance can be avoided, which is advantageous in terms of
the investment, the running cost, and the energy saving.
[0008] The present invention provides a technique for a production line having a plurality of
production facilities that use compressed air, the technique achieving accurate calculation of a
total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line even in the case where the
plurality of production facilities are each different in operation start and operation stop timing.
[0009] One aspect of the present invention relates to a compressed air-flow rate calculation
method. The one aspect of the present invention is a compressed air-flow rate calculation
method for calculating a total compressed air-flow rate used in an entire production line having

                                                    3
a plurality of production facilities that use compressed air, the method including: inputting
facility information including the number of the plurality of production facilities and layout
information, and production supplementary information including information on tact time of
the entire production line; storing, in a storage device, time series data representative of time
series variation of a compressed air-flow rate for each of the plurality of production facilities,
the compressed air-flow rate being used in each of the production facilities during an operation
period from an operation start to an operation stop; and simulating time series variation of the
total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line during a prescribed period,
wherein the simulation includes determining, for each of the plurality of production facilities,
whether or not operation start timing has come in each of the production facilities during the
prescribed period, generating, for each of the plurality of production facilities, time series data
on the compressed air-flow rate used in each of the production facilities during the prescribed
period by acquiring, from the storage device, the time series data on the compressed air-flow
rate used in each of the production facilities during the operation period, whenever the operation
start timing is determined to have come in each of the production facilities, and calculating time
series data representative of the time series variation of the total compressed air-flow rate used
in the entire production line during the prescribed period by integrating the time series data on
the compressed air-flow rate used during the prescribed period, the time series data being
generated for each of the plurality of production facilities.
[0010] In the one aspect of the present invention, a waveform that is digitized time series data
on the compressed air-flow rate used in each of the plurality of production facilities during the
operation period may be stored in the storage device for each of the production facilities.
[0011] In the one aspect of the present invention, in the case where a process executed by one of
the production facilities is a first process, and no workpiece is present in the production facility,
the operation start timing may be determined to have come in the production facility when the
workpiece is brought into the production facility, whereas in the case where the process
executed by one of the production facilities is not the first process, no workpiece is present in
the production facility, and a workpiece is present in a production facility that executes a
process previous to the process executed by the one of the production facilities, the operation
start timing may be determined to have come in the one of the production facilities when the
workpiece is brought into the one of the production facilities.

                                                   4
[0012] A second aspect of the present invention relates to a compressed air-flow rate calculation
device. The second aspect of the present invention is a compressed air-flow rate calculation
device for calculating a total compressed air-flow rate used in an entire production line having a
plurality of production facilities that use compressed air, the calculation device including: an
input device configured to receive input of facility information including the number of the
plurality of production facilities and layout information thereon, and production supplementary
information including information on tact time of the entire production line; a storage device
configured to store time series data representative of time series variation of a compressed air
flow rate for each of the plurality of production facilities, the compressed air-flow rate being
used in each of the production facilities during an operation period from an operation start to an
operation stop; and a processor configured to simulate time series variation of the total
compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line during a prescribed period, wherein
the processor is configured to determine, for each of the plurality of production facilities,
whether or not operation start timing has come in each of the production facilities during the
prescribed period that is during the simulation, generate, for each of the plurality of production
facilities, time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used in each of the production
facilities during the prescribed period by acquiring, from the storage device, the time series data
on the compressed air-flow rate used in each of the production facilities during the operation
period, whenever the operation start timing is determined to have come in each of the
production facilities, and calculate time series data representative of the time series variation of
the total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line during the prescribed period
by integrating the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used during the prescribed
period, the time series data being generated for each of the plurality of production facilities.
[0013] A third aspect of the present invention relates to a computer-readable storage medium.
The third aspect is configured to store a computer program and cause a computer to execute
steps upon execution of the computer program, the steps including: input steps of inputting, in
the computer configured to calculate a total compressed air-flow rate used in an entire
production line having a plurality of production facilities that use compressed air, facility
information including the number of the plurality of production facilities and layout information,
and production supplementary information including information on tact time of the entire
production line; a storage step of storing, in a storage device, time series data representative of
time series variation of a compressed air-flow rate for each of the plurality of production
facilities, the compressed air-flow rate being used in each of the production facilities during an

                                                   5
operation period from an operation start to an operation stop; and a simulation step of simulating
time series variation of the total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line
during a prescribed period, wherein the simulation step includes a determination step of
determining, for each of the plurality of production facilities, whether or not operation start
timing has come in each of the production facilities during the prescribed period, a generation
step of generating, for each of the plurality of production facilities, time series data on the
compressed air-flow rate used in each of the production facilities during the prescribed period
by acquiring, from the storage device, the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used
in each of the production facilities during the operation period, whenever the operation start
timing is determined to have come in each of the production facilities, and a calculation step of
calculating time series data representative of the time series variation of the total compressed
air-flow rate used in the entire production line during the prescribed period by integrating the
time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used during the prescribed period, the time
series data being generated for each of the plurality of production facilities.
[0014] The above-stated aspects of the present invention can effectively implement, in the
production line having a plurality of production facilities that use compressed air, accurate
calculation of a total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line even in the case
where the plurality of production facilities are each different in operation start and operation
stop timing.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0015] Features, advantages, and technical and industrial significance of exemplary
embodiments of the invention will be described below with reference to the accompanying
drawings, in which like numerals denote like elements, and wherein:
[0016] FIG. 1 illustrates one example of a hardware configuration of a computer that
implements a calculation device for a compressed air-flow rate according to an embodiment;
[0017] FIG. 2 is a flowchart illustrating one example of pre-processing performed before
simulation in a compressed air-flow rate calculation method according to an embodiment;
[0018] FIG. 3 illustrates one example of an input screen displayed in steps S101, S102 of FIG.
2;

                                                 6
[0019] FIG. 4 illustrates one example of an input screen displayed in step S103 of FIG. 2;
[0020] FIG. 5 illustrates one example of an input screen displayed in step S103 of FIG. 2;
[0021] FIG. 6 illustrates one example of processing for digitizing special waveforms in step
S106 of FIG. 2;
[0022] FIG. 7 illustrates one example of an input screen displayed in step S108 of FIG. 2;
[0023] FIG. 8 illustrates one example of an input screen displayed in steps S109, Si 10 of FIG.
2;
[0024] FIG. 9 illustrates one example of a layout of a plurality of production facilities included
in a production line;
[0025] FIG. 10A is a flowchart illustrating one example of simulation processing in the
compressed air-flow rate calculation method according to the embodiment;
[0026] FIG. 1OB is a flowchart illustrating one example of simulation processing in the
compressed air-flow rate calculation method according to the embodiment;
[0027] FIG. 11 illustrates one example of actual measurements of time series data on a total
compressed air-flow rate in the entire production line when the production line has a conveyor;
[0028] FIG. 12 illustrates one example of actual measurements of the time series data on the
total compressed air-flow rate in the entire production line when the production line has no
conveyor;
[0029] FIG. 13A illustrates a specific example of a digitized waveform of the time series data
on the compressed air-flow rate in a production facility A during an operation period;
[0030] FIG. 13B illustrates a specific example of a digitized waveform of the time series data on
the compressed air-flow rate in a production facility B during the operation period;
[0031] FIG. 13C illustrates a specific example of a digitized waveform of the time series data on
the compressed air-flow rate in a production facility C during the operation period; and

                                                   7
[0032] FIG. 14 illustrates a specific example of a calculation result of the time series data on the
total compressed air-flow rate in the entire production line during simulation time.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS
[0033] Embodiments of the present invention will be described below with reference to the
drawings. First, a configuration example of a computer 10, which implements the compressed
air-flow rate calculation device according to the present embodiment will be described with
reference to FIG. 1. As illustrated in FIG. 1, the computer 10 includes a processor 11, a memory
12, a storage 13, and an input-output interface (input-output IF) 14. The processor 11, the
memory 12, the storage 13, and the input-output interface 14 are connected through a
transmission line for exchanging data with each other.
[0034] For example, the processor 11 is an arithmetic processor such as a central processing unit
(CPU). For example, the memory 12 is such a memory as a random access memory (RAM) and
a read only memory (ROM). For example, the storage 13 is a storage device such as a hard disk
drive (HDD), a solid state drive (SSD), and a memory card.
[0035] The storage 13 stores a program for causing the computer 10 to execute the calculation
method for the compressed air-flow rate according to the present embodiment, i.e., a method for
calculating a total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line having a plurality
of production facilities that use compressed air. The processor 11 reads the aforementioned
program from the storage 13, and executes the read program to implement the compressed air
flow rate calculation method according to the present embodiment. Here, when executing the
aforementioned program, the processor 11 may read the aforementioned program on the
memory 12 and then execute the read program, or may execute the program without reading it
on the memory 12. The program may be stored in various types of non-transitory computer
readable media, and be supplied to the computer. The non-transitory computer-readable media
include various types of tangible storage media. Examples of the non-transitory computer
readable media include magnetic storage media (for example, a flexible disk, a magnetic tape,
and a hard disk drive), optical magnetic storage media (for example, a magneto-optical disk),
compact disc read-only memories (CD-ROMs), CD-Rs, CD-RWs, semiconductor memories (for
example, a mask ROM, a programmable ROM (PROM), an erasable PROM (EPROM), a flash
ROM, and a random access memory (RAM)). The program may be supplied to the computer

                                                   8
through various types of transitory computer-readable media. Examples of the transitory
computer-readable media include an electrical signal, an optical signal, and an electromagnetic
wave. The transitory computer-readable media may supply the program to the computer through
a wired communication channel such as an electric wire and an optical fiber, or through a
wireless communication channel.
[0036] The storage 13 also functions as an air-flow rate waveform database (DB) 13A. For
example, different production facilities are different from each other in operation start timing for
starting operation, the length of an operation period from the operation start to the operation
stop, and in time series variation of the compressed air-flow rate used during the operation
period. However, in the case of the same production facility, the operation start timing may be
random, but the length of the operation period from the operation start to the operation stop and
the time series variation of the compressed air-flow rate used during the operation period may be
the same. Accordingly, in the present embodiment, time series data representative of the time
series variation of the compressed air-flow rate used in each of the production facilities during
the operation period is stored in the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A for each of the plurality of
production facilities. As described later, the processor 11 simulates time series variation of the
total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line during simulation time
(prescribed period) based on the time series data stored in the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A.
[0037] The input-output interface 14 is connected with component members such as a display
device 141 and an input device 142. The display device 141 is configured to display screens
such as a screen generated in the processor 11. Examples of the display device 141 include a
display such as a liquid crystal display (LCD), and a cathode ray tube (CRT) display. The input
device 142 is configured to receive operational input by a user. Examples of the input device
142 include a keyboard, a mouse, and a touch sensor. The display device 141 and the input
device 142 may be integrated as a touch panel.
[0038] A description is now given of the calculation method for the compressed air-flow rate
according to the present embodiment. First, an example of the flow of pre-processing will be
described with reference to FIG. 2. The pre-processing is performed before simulating the time
series variation of the total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line during
simulation time (prescribed period), the entire production line having the plurality of production
facilities that use compressed air.

                                                   9
[0039] As illustrated in FIG. 2, the processor 11 receives through the input device 142 input of
the route of main piping as main piping information (step S101). The main piping is the piping
between a compressor that generates compressed air and each of the production facilities. The
main piping does not include piping in each of the production facilities. Next, the processor 11
receives through the input device 142 input of a main piping diameter as the main pipeline
information (step S102). For example, in steps S101, S102, the processor 11 displays an input
screen illustrated in FIG. 3 on the display device 141. On the input screen, the processor 11
receives input of the main piping route and the piping diameter through the input device 142.
The input screen illustrated in FIG. 3 is configured to receive not only the input of the main
piping route and the piping diameter but also input of the pressure of the compressed air
generated in the compressor.
[0040] Next, the processor 11 receives input of the number of production facilities included in
the production line and layout thereof through the input device 142 as facility information (step
S103). For example, in step S 103, the processor 11 first displays an input screen illustrated in
FIG. 4 on the display device 141. On the input screen, the processor 11 receives input of the
layout of the production facilities through the input device 142. Next, the processor 11 displays
an input screen illustrated in FIG. 5 on the display device 141. On the input screen, the
processor 11 receives input of the specification of each production facility through the input
device 142. The input screen illustrated in FIG. 5 is configured to receive input of process No.
representative of the order of the process executed by the production facility, the type of the
production facility, a cycle time of the production facility, and the pressure used by the
production facility. Among these parameters, the process No. can be used to determine an
arrangement sequence of each production facility. The input screen illustrated in FIG. 5 is
further configured to receive input of whether or not the production facility includes a multiple
row process composed of a plurality of processes arranged in parallel. When the production
facility includes the multiple-row process, the input screen receives input of the multiple-row
target process No. representative of the order of the multiple-row process.
[0041] Next, for each of the plurality of production facilities, the processor 11 acquires, from
the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A in the storage 13, a waveform of the time series data on the
compressed air-flow rate used in each of the production facilities during the operation period
(step S104). For example, in the case of the production facilities such as a production facility for
drilling holes and a production facility for pressing in pins, the waveforms of the time series data

                                                 10
on the compressed air-flow rate used in these production facilities during the operation period
become simple waveforms. Accordingly, for such production facilities, the digitized typical
waveforms prestored in the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A are acquired.
[0042] Next, the processor 11 determines whether or not the plurality of production facilities
include a production facility whose waveform of the time series data on the compressed air-flow
rate used during the operation period is a special waveform (step S105). The special waveform
is different from typical waveforms prestored in the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A. For
example, the special waveform is different from the typical waveforms in the timing of using the
compressed air and in the flow rate. A specific example of the special waveform is illustrated in
an upper graph of FIG. 6.
[0043] When the plurality of production facilities include a production facility whose waveform
of the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used during the operation period is a
special waveform in step S 105, (YES in step S 105), the processor 11 digitizes and thereby
simplifies the special waveform (step S106). The special waveform is digitized by, for example,
a publicly known method involving sampling, quantization, and encoding of the waveform. For
example, the waveform illustrated in the upper graph of FIG. 6 is digitized as illustrated in a
lower graph of FIG. 6. The digitization of the special waveform in step S106 may be
implemented not only by the processor 11 but also by manual entry performed by the user
through the input device 142. When the plurality of production facilities include no production
facility whose waveform of the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used during the
operation period is a special waveforms in step S 105, (NO in step S105), all the waveforms can
be acquired from the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A. Accordingly, step S106 is skipped, and
the processing proceeds to step S107.
[0044] Next, for each of the plurality of production facilities, the processor 11 stores in the air
flow rate waveform DB 13A the digitized waveform of the time series data on the compressed
air-flow rate used in each of the production facilities during the operation period. Accordingly,
the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A is updated (step S 107).
[0045] Next, the processor 11 receives through the input device 142 input of the number and the
position of standard in-process stocks as the production auxiliary information (step S108). The
standard in-process stocks are workpieces left as a buffer on the conveyor just behind unreliable

                                                      11
production facilities (such as a facility frequently fails and stops). For example, in step S 108, the
processor 11 displays an input screen illustrated in FIG. 7 on the display device 141. On the
input screen, the processor 11 receives input of the number and the position of the standard in
process stocks through the input device 142. In FIG. 7, the workpieces not positioned within the
production facilities are workpieces left as a buffer on the conveyor.
[0046] Next, the processor 11 receives, through the input device 142, input of the tact time of
the entire production line as the production auxiliary information (step S 109). Next, the
processor 11 receives, through the input device 142, input of simulation time representative of
the length of a period in which simulation is executed (step S1 10). For example, in steps S 109,
S110, the processor 11 displays an input screen illustrated in FIG. 8 on the display device 141.
On the input screen, the processor 11 receives input of the specification of the entire production
line through the input device 142. The input screen illustrated in FIG. 8 is configured to receive
not only the input of the tact time and the simulation time of the entire production line, but also
input of the pressure of the compressed air generated in the compressor and the flow rate. At this
point, the pre-processing performed before simulation is ended.
[0047] Next, an example of the flow of simulation processing of the time series variation of the
total compressed air-flow rate will be described with reference to FIGS. 9 and 10, the total
compressed air-flow rate being used during simulation time (prescribed period) in the entire
production line having the plurality of production facilities that use compressed air.
[0048] Here, as illustrated in FIG. 9, the production line is composed of n (n is a natural number
of 2 or larger) production facilities (n - (n - 1)) to (n) that use compressed air, the production
facilities being arrayed in order with a production facility (n - (n - 1)) being the head. The
production facilities (n - (n - 1)) to (n) execute No. (n - (n - 1)) process to No. (n) process,
respectively. When the processing of FIGs. 10A and 1OB is started, the production facilities are
in a full workpiece state (the state where all the production facilities have workpieces) as in an
actual production line.
[0049] As illustrated in FIGs. 1OA and 10B, the processor 11 calculates, for each n production
facilities (n - (n - 1)) to (n), a piping loss representative of the compressed air pressure lost
inside the main piping between these production facilities and the compressor (step S20 1).

                                                    12
[0050] Next, the processor 11 starts generation of the time series data on the compressed air
flow rate used in n production facilities (n - (n - 1)) to (n) during the simulation time for each of
the production facilities (steps S301, S401, S501).
[0051] Here, a description is first given of the generation of the time series data on the
compressed air-flow rate in the production facility (n) that executes No. (n) process that is a
final process. First, the processor 11 determines whether or not the production facility (n) has a
workpiece (step S302). When the production facility (n) has the workpiece in step S302 (YES in
step S302), the workpiece is brought out from the production facility (n) (step S303). When no
workpiece is present in the production facility (n) (NO in step S302), it is not necessary to bring
out any workpiece. Accordingly, step S303 is skipped, and the processing proceeds to step
S304.
[0052] Next, the processor 11 determines whether or not the production facility (n - 1), which
executes No. (n - 1) process that is the process previous to No. (n) process, has a workpiece
(whether or not there is a workpiece which has already been brought out from the production
facility (n - 1) but is not yet brought into the production facility (n) to be specific) (step S304).
Specifically, the aforementioned workpiece is the workpiece which has already brought out
from the production facility (n - 1) but is not yet brought into the production facility (n). When
the production facility (n - 1) does not have a workpiece in step S304 (NO in step S304), no
workpiece can be brought in. Accordingly, the processing returns to step S304.
[0053] When the production facility (n - 1) has a workpiece in step S304 (YES in step S304),
the processor 11 brings the workpiece into the production facility (n) (step S305). That is, in the
case of the production facility (n) that executes No. (n) process that is a final process, when no
workpiece is present in the production facility (n), and the production facility (n - 1) that
executes No. (n - 1) process, which is a process previous to No. (n) process, has a workpiece, the
processor 11 brings the workpiece into the production facility (n). At this point, the processor 11
determines that the operation start timing for starting operation of the production facility (n) has
come.
[0054] Here, a conveyor for conveying the workpiece is provided between the production
facility (n) and the production facility (n - 1). The workpiece in the production facility (n - 1) is
conveyed with the conveyer into the production facility (n). Accordingly, even when the

                                                   13
production facility (n - 1) has a workpiece, the workpiece is not necessarily brought into the
production facility (n) at once. In actuality, the workpiece is brought into the production facility
(n) after the lapse of time taken for the conveyer to convey the workpiece lapses. However, in
the present embodiment, when no workpiece is present in the production facility (n), and the
production facility (n - 1) has a workpiece, the workpiece is assumed to be brought into the
production facility (n) in disregard of the conveying time of the workpiece. When the workpiece
is brought in, the operation start timing of the production facility (n) is determined to have
come. The reason of the determination will be described below.
[0055] FIG. 11 illustrates waveforms of actual measurement values of the time series data on
the total compressed air-flow rate in the case where the conveyor is present between the
production facilities. FIG. 12 illustrates waveforms of the actual measurement values of the time
series data on the total compressed air-flow rate in the case where no conveyor is present
between the production facilities. FIGS. 11 and 12 illustrate the waveforms of the same
production facilities. As illustrated in FIGS. 11 and 12, the presence of the conveyor between
the production facilities does not cause a large change in the waveforms of the time series data
on the total compressed air-flow rate. Difference between a maximum value of the total
compressed air-flow rate without the conveyor and a maximum value of the total compressed
air-flow rate with the conveyor is as small as about 2%. If, despite such a small difference, the
program executed by the processor 11 is created such that the motion and conditions of the
conveyor are programmed in accordance with an actual production line, the programs become
complicated, which causes another problem that an enormous time is necessary to create the
program. Accordingly, in the present embodiment, priority is given to simplifying the program,
so that the time taken for the conveyer to convey the workpiece is disregarded.
[0056] When determining that the operation start timing of the production facility (n) has come,
the processor 11 acquires from the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A the digitized waveform of
the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility (n) during the
operation period (step S306). Next, the processor 11 brings out the workpiece from the
production facility (n) after the lapse of the operation period of the production facility (n) (step
S307).
[0057] Next, the processor 11 determines whether or not the lapse of time after the start of
generating the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate in the production facility (n) in

                                                   14
step S301 reaches the simulation time (step S308). In step S308, when the lapsed time from step
S301 does not reach the simulation time (NO in step S308), the processing returns to step S304.
When the processing returns to step S304, no workpiece is present in the production facility (n).
Accordingly, in step S304, when the production facility (n - 1) has a workpiece (YES in step
S304), the processor 11 brings the workpiece into the production facility (n) (step S305). At that
moment, the processor 11 determines that the operation start timing of the production facility (n)
has come, and performs step S306 and onward.
[0058] That is, the processor 11 acquires from the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A the digitized
waveform of the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility
(n) during the operation period whenever determining that the operation start timing of the
production facility (n) has come. Thus, the processor 11 generates the time series data on the
compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility (n) during simulation time.
[0059] Meanwhile, when the lapsed time from step S301 reaches the simulation time in step
S308 (YES in step S308), the processor 11 terminates generation of the time series data on the
compressed air-flow rate in the production facility (n) (step S309).
[0060] Next, a description is given of the generation of the time series data on the compressed
air-flow rate in the production facility (n - 1) that executes No. (n - 1) process that is an
intermediate process. First, the processor 11 determines whether or not the production facility (n
- 1) has a workpiece (step S402). In step S402, when the production facility (n - 1) has the
workpiece (YES in step S402), the processor 11 then determines whether or not the production
facility (n) that executes No. (n) process, which is a process subsequent to No. (n - 1) process,
has a workpiece (step S403). In step S403, when no workpiece is present in the production
facility (n) (NO in step S403), it indicates that the production facility (n - 1) has a workpiece and
the production facility (n) has no workpiece. Accordingly, the processor 11 brings out the
workpiece from the production facility (n - 1) (step S404). When there is no workpiece in the
production facility (n - 1) (NO in step S402), it is not necessary to bring out any workpiece.
Accordingly, steps S403, S404 are skipped, and the processing proceeds to step S405. When the
production facility (n) has a workpiece in step S403 (YES in step S403), the workpiece of the
production facility (n - 1) cannot be brought out. Accordingly, the processing returns to step
S403. That is, the workpiece in the production facility (n - 1) is brought out after the workpiece
is no longer present in the production facility (n).

                                                    15
[0061] Next, the processor 11 determines whether or not the production facility (n - 2), which
executes No. (n - 2) process that is the process previous to No. (n - 1) process, has a workpiece
(whether or not there is a workpiece which has already been carried out from the production
facility (n - 2) but is not yet carried into the production facility (n - 1) to be specific) (step S405).
When the production facility (n - 2) does not have any workpiece in step S405 (NO in step
S405), no workpiece can be brought in. Accordingly, the processing returns to step S405.
[0062] When the production facility (n - 2) has a workpiece in step S405 (YES in step S405),
the processor 11 brings the workpiece into the production facility (n - 1) (step S406). That is, in
the case of the production facility (n - 1) that executes No. (n - 1) process that is the intermediate
process, when no workpiece is present in the production facility (n-1), and the production
facility (n - 2) that executes No. (n - 2) process, which is a process previous to No. (n - 1)
process, has a workpiece, the processor 11 brings the workpiece into the production facility (n
1). At that point, the processor 11 determines that the operation start timing for starting
operation of the production facility (n - 1) has come. At this time, the conveying time of the
workpiece by the conveyor between the production facility (n - 1) and the production facility (n
- 2) is disregarded as in the case of the production facility (n).
[0063] When determining that the operation start timing of the production facility (n - 1) has
come, the processor 11 acquires from the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A the digitized
waveform of the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility
(n - 1) during the operation period (step S407). Next, the processor 11 brings out the workpiece
from the production facility (n - 1) after the lapse of the operation period of the production
facility (n - 1) (step S408).
[0064] Next, the processor 11 determines whether or not the lapse of time after the start of
generating the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate in the production facility (n - 1)
in step S401 reaches the simulation time (step S409). In step S409, when the lapsed time from
step S401 does not reach the simulation time (NO in step S409), the processing returns to step
S405. When the processing returns to step S405, no workpiece is present in the production
facility (n - 1). Accordingly, in step S405, when the production facility (n - 2) has a workpiece
(YES in step S405), the processor 11 brings the workpiece into the production facility (n - 1)
(step S406). At that moment, the processor 11 determines that the operation start timing of the
production facility (n - 1) has come, and performs step S407 and onward.

                                                   16
[0065] That is, the processor 11 acquires from the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A the digitized
waveform of the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility
(n - 1) during the operation period whenever it is determined that the operation start timing of
the production facility (n - 1) has come. Thus, the processor 11 generates the time series data on
the compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility (n - 1) during the simulation time.
[0066] Meanwhile, when the lapsed time from step S401 reaches the simulation time in step
S409 (YES in step S409), the processor 11 terminates generation of the time series data on the
compressed air-flow rate in the production facility (n - 1) (step S410).
[0067] The time series data on the compressed air-flow rate in the production facilities (n- (n
2)) to (n - 2), which execute No. (n- (n - 2)) process to (n - 2) process that are the intermediate
processes, respectively, may be generated substantially in the same manner as the time series
data on the compressed air-flow rate in the production facility (n - 1). Accordingly, a description
of the generation method thereof is omitted.
[0068] Next, a description is given of the generation of the time series data on the compressed
air-flow rate in the production facility (n - (n - 1)) that executes No. (n - (n - 1)) process that is a
first process. First, the processor 11 determines whether or not the production facility (n - (n
1)) has a workpiece (step S502). When a workpiece is present in the production facility (n - (n
1)) (YES in step S502), it is not necessary to bring in the workpiece. Accordingly, later
described steps S503, S504 are skipped, and the processing proceeds to step S505.
[0069] When the production facility (n - (n - 1)) does not have any workpiece in step S502 (NO
in step S502), the processor 11 brings the workpiece into the production facility (n - (n - 1))
(step S503). That is, in the case of the production facility (n - (n - 1)) that executes No. (n - (n
1)) process that is the first process, the processor 11 brings a workpiece into the production
facility (n - (n - 1)) when no workpiece is present in the production facility (n - (n - 1)). At that
time, the processor 11 determines that the operation start timing for starting operation of the
production facility (n - (n - 1)) has come. At this time, the conveying time of the workpiece by
the conveyor present immediately before the production facility (n - (n - 1)) is disregarded as in
the case of the production facility (n).
[0070] When determining that the operation start timing of the production facility (n - (n - 1))
has come, the processor 11 acquires from the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A the digitized

                                                    17
waveform of the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility
(n- (n - 1)) during the operation period (step S504).
[0071] Next, the processor 11 determines whether or not a workpiece is present in the
production facility (n- (n - 2)), which executes No. (n- (n - 2)) process that is a process
subsequent to No. (n - (n - 1)) process, after the lapse of the operation period of the production
facility (n - (n - 1)) (step S505). When the production facility (n-(n - 2)) does not have any
workpiece in step S505 (NO in step S505), a workpiece is brought out from the production
facility (n - (n - 1)) (step S506). When the production facility (n-(n - 2)) has a workpiece in step
S505 (YES in step S505), the workpiece of the production facility (n - (n - 1)) cannot be brought
out. Accordingly, the processing returns to step S505. That is, the workpiece in the production
facility (n - (n - 1)) is brought out after the workpiece is no longer present in the production
facility (n-(n - 2)).
[0072] Next, the processor 11 determines whether or not the lapse of time after the start of
generating the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate in the production facility (n - (n
1)) in step S501 reaches simulation time (step S507). In step S507, when the lapsed time from
step S501 does not reach the simulation time (NO in step S507), the processing returns to step
S503. When the processing returns to step S503, no workpiece is present in the production
facility (n - (n - 1)). Accordingly, when the processing returns to step S503, the processor 11
brings a workpiece into the production facility (n - (n - 1)) (step S503). At that moment, the
processor 11 determines that the operation start timing of the production facility (n - (n - 1)) has
come, and performs step S504 and onward.
[0073] That is, the processor 11 acquires from the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A the digitized
waveform of the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility
(n - (n - 1)) during the operation period whenever it is determined that the operation start timing
of the production facility (n - (n - 1)) has come. Thus, the processor 11 generates the time series
data on the compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility (n - (n - 1)) during the
simulation time.
[0074] Meanwhile, when the lapsed time from step S501 reaches the simulation time in step
S507 (YES in step S507), the processor 11 terminates generation of the time series data on the
compressed air-flow rate in the production facility (n - (n - 1)) (step S508).

                                                  18
[0075] The above-described processing generates the time series data on the compressed air
flow rate for each of the production facilities (n - (n - 1)) to (n), the compressed air-flow rate
being used in each of the production facilities during the simulation time. Next, the processor 11
calculates time series data representative of time series variation of the total compressed air-flow
rate used in the entire production line during simulation by integrating the time series data on
the compressed air-flow rate used during the simulation time, the time series data being
generated for each of n production facilities (n - (n - 1)) to (n). The processor 11 then outputs the
calculated time series data (step S202). At this time, the processor 11 displays and outputs a
screen displaying the calculated time series data on the display device 141, for example.
[0076] Then, the processor 11 outputs a maximum value in the total compressed air-flow rate
during the simulation time (step S203). At this time, the processor 11 displays and outputs the
screen representative of the maximum value in the total compressed air-flow rate on the display
device 141, for example.
[0077] Next, the compressed air-flow rate calculation method according to the present
embodiment will be described based on a specific example with reference to FIGS. 13A to 13C
and FIG. 14. Here, the production line is configured such that three production facilities A to C
that use compressed air are arrayed in order with the production facility A at the head.
[0078] First, in the pre-processing performed before the simulation, for each of the three
production facilities A to C, the processor 11 stores in the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A the
digitized waveform of the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used in each of the
production facilities during the operation period. Here, assume that the waveforms as illustrated
in FIGS. 13A to 13C are stored for the three production facilities A to C, respectively.
[0079] Next, the processor 11 starts simulation processing. In the processing, the processor 11
starts generation of the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate for each of the
production facilities, the compressed air-flow rate being used in each of the three production
facilities A to C during the simulation time. Here, as illustrated in FIG. 14, the simulation time
is a period from time tl to t1 1.
[0080] First, in the case of the production facility A, the processor 11 determines that the
operation start timing has come at time t4 and t9 during the simulation time. Accordingly, the
processor 11 acquires from the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A the digitized waveform of the

                                                   19
time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility A during the
operation period.
[0081] In the case of the production facility B, the processor 11 determines that the operation
start timing has come at time t2 and t7 during the simulation time. Accordingly, the processor 11
acquires from the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A the digitized waveform of the time series data
on the compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility B during the operation period at
time t2 and t7.
[0082] In the case of the production facility C, the processor 11 determines that the operation
start timing has come at time tl and t6 during the simulation time. Accordingly, the processor 11
acquires from the air-flow rate waveform DB 13A the digitized waveform of the time series data
on the compressed air-flow rate used in the production facility C during the operation period at
time tI and t6.
[0083] The above-described processing generates the time series data on the compressed air
flow rate for each of the production facilities, the compressed air-flow rate being used in each of
the three production facilities during the simulation time. Next, the processor 11 calculates the
time series data on the total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line during
the simulation time by integrating the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used
during the simulation time, the time series data being generated for each of the three production
facilities A to C. The processor 11 then outputs the calculated time series data.
[0084] At this time, in the time series data on the total compressed air-flow rate, the total
compressed air-flow rate between time t4 and t5 and between time t9 and t10 marks a maximum
value. Accordingly, the processor 11 outputs the total compressed air-flow rate between time t4
and t5 and between time t9 and t10 as the maximum value in the total compressed air-flow rate.
[0085] As described in the foregoing, according to the present embodiment, the air-flow rate
waveform DB 13A prestores, for each of the plurality of production facilities, the time series
data on the compressed air-flow rate in each of the production facilities during the operation
period from the start of operation to the stop of the operation. The processor 11 acquires for
each of the plurality of production facilities the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate
in each of the production facilities during the operation period from the air-flow rate waveform
DB 13A, whenever the operation start timing has come in each of the production facilities

                                                  20
during a prescribed period for performing simulation. Thus, the processor 11 generates the time
series data on the compressed air-flow rate in each of the plurality of production facilities during
the prescribed period. The processor 11 then calculates the time series data on the total
compressed air-flow rate in the entire production line during the prescribed period by integrating
the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate in each of plurality of production facilities
during the prescribed period.
[0086] Accordingly, even when a plurality of production facilities are each different in the
operation start and operation stop timing in a production line having the plurality of production
facilities that use compressed air, the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate in each of
the plurality of production facilities can accurately be generated. As a result, the total
compressed air-flow rate in the entire production line can also be calculated with sufficient
accuracy.
[0087] As a result, a compressor having a proper output volume corresponding to the total
compressed air-flow rate can be selected. For example, in the example of FIG. 14, a compressor
to be selected may have a output volume specification in proportion to the total compressed air
flow rate in a period between time t4 and t5 and in a period between time t9 and t10. Since the
compressor of the proper output volume can be selected in this way, it becomes possible to
eliminate the necessity of adjusting the operation start and operation stop timing of any one of
the production facilities as disclosed in JP 2010-128625 A. As a result, finished products can be
produced as scheduled. Furthermore, since the compressor of the proper output volume can be
selected, the compressor having excessive performance can be avoided, which is advantageous
in terms of the investment, the running cost, and the energy saving.
[0088] According to the present embodiment, the digitized waveform is stored in the air-flow
rate waveform DB 13A as a waveform of the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate in
each of plurality of production facilities during the operation period. Thus, the waveform of the
time series data on the compressed air-flow rate is digitized and thereby simplified, which
results in simplification of the program executed by the processor 11 so as to implement the
compressed air-flow rate calculation method according to the present embodiment. Therefore,
the time taken for creating the program can be reduced.

                                                   21
[0089] According to the present embodiment, when no workpiece is present in a production
facility that executes the first process, the processor 11 brings a workpiece into the production
facility, and at that moment, the processor 11 determines that the operation start timing of the
production facility has come. When no workpiece is present in one of the production facilities,
which are other than the production facility that executes the first process, and a workpiece is
present in a production facility that executes a process previous to the process executed by the
one of the production facilities, the processor 11 brings the workpiece into the one of the
production facilities. At that moment, the processor 11 determines that the operation start timing
of the one of the production facilities has come. That is, the processor 11 brings a workpiece
into the production facility in disregard of the conveying time by the conveyor, and at that time,
the processor 11 determines that the operation start timing of the production facility has come.
When the conveying time by the conveyor is disregarded in this way, the aforementioned
program is further simplified, which further reduces the time taken for creating the program.
[0090] The present invention is not limited to the embodiments disclosed above, and
appropriate modifications are possible without departing from the scope of the present
invention.

                                                    22
CLAIMS
1.    A compressed air-flow rate calculation method for calculating a total compressed air-flow
rate used in an entire production line having a plurality of production facilities that use
compressed air, the method comprising:
       inputting facility information including the number of the plurality of production facilities
and layout information, and production supplementary information including information on tact
time of the entire production line;
       storing, in a storage device, time series data representative of time series variation of a
compressed air-flow rate for each of the plurality of production facilities, the compressed air
flow rate being used in each of the production facilities during an operation period from an
operation start to an operation stop; and
       simulating time series variation of the total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire
production line during a prescribed period, wherein
      the simulation includes
              determining, for each of the plurality of production facilities, whether or not
       operation start timing has come in each of the production facilities during the prescribed
      period,
              generating, for each of the plurality of production facilities, time series data on the
       compressed air-flow rate used in each of the production facilities during the prescribed
      period by acquiring, from the storage device, the time series data on the compressed air
       flow rate used in each of the production facilities during the operation period, whenever
      the operation start timing is determined to have come in each of the production facilities,
       and
              calculating time series data representative of the time series variation of the total
       compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line during the prescribed period by
       integrating the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used during the prescribed
      period, the time series data being generated for each of the plurality of production
       facilities.
2.     The compressed air-flow rate calculation method according to claim 1, wherein
       a waveform that is digitized time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used in each
of the plurality of production facilities during the operation period is stored in the storage device
for each of the production facilities.

                                                    23
3.     The compressed air-flow rate calculation method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein
       in a case where a process executed by one of the production facilities is a first process, and
no workpiece is present in the production facility, the operation start timing is determined to
have come in the production facility when the workpiece is brought into the production facility,
whereas
       in a case where the process executed by one of the production facilities is not the first
process, no workpiece is present in the production facility, and a workpiece is present in a
production facility that executes a process previous to the process executed by the one of the
production facilities, the operation start timing is determined to have come in the one of the
production facilities when the workpiece is brought into the one of the production facilities.
4.     A compressed air-flow rate calculation device for calculating a total compressed air-flow
rate used in an entire production line having a plurality of production facilities that use
compressed air, the calculation device comprising:
       an input device configured to receive input of facility information including the number of
the plurality of production facilities and layout information thereon, and production
supplementary information including information on tact time of the entire production line;
       a storage device configured to store time series data representative of time series variation
of a compressed air-flow rate for each of the plurality of production facilities, the compressed
air-flow rate being used in each of the production facilities during an operation period from an
operation start to an operation stop; and
       a processor configured to simulate time series variation of the total compressed air-flow
rate used in the entire production line during a prescribed period, wherein
       the processor is configured to
               determine, for each of the plurality of production facilities, whether or not operation
       start timing has come in each of the production facilities during the prescribed period that
       is during the simulation,
               generate, for each of the plurality of production facilities, time series data on the
       compressed air-flow rate used in each of the production facilities during the prescribed
       period by acquiring, from the storage device, the time series data on the compressed air
       flow rate used in each of the production facilities during the operation period, whenever
       the operation start timing is determined to have come in each of the production facilities,
       and

                                                   24
              calculate time series data representative of the time series variation of the total
       compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line during the prescribed period by
       integrating the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used during the prescribed
      period, the time series data being generated for each of the plurality of production
       facilities.
5.    A computer-readable storage medium, the storage medium being configured to store a
computer program and cause a computer to execute steps upon execution of the computer
program, the steps comprising:
       input steps of inputting, in the computer configured to calculate a total compressed air-flow
rate used in an entire production line having a plurality of production facilities that use
compressed air, facility information including the number of the plurality of production facilities
and layout information, and production supplementary information including information on tact
time of the entire production line;
       a storage step of storing, in a storage device, time series data representative of time series
variation of a compressed air-flow rate for each of the plurality of production facilities, the
compressed air-flow rate being used in each of the production facilities during an operation
period from an operation start to an operation stop; and
       a simulation step of simulating time series variation of the total compressed air-flow rate
used in the entire production line during a prescribed period, wherein
      the simulation step includes
              a determination step of determining, for each of the plurality of production facilities,
      whether or not operation start timing has come in each of the production facilities during
      the prescribed period,
              a generation step of generating, for each of the plurality of production facilities, time
       series data on the compressed air-flow rate used in each of the production facilities during
      the prescribed period by acquiring, from the storage device, the time series data on the
       compressed air-flow rate used in each of the production facilities during the operation
      period, whenever the operation start timing is determined to have come in each of the
      production facilities, and
              a calculation step of calculating time series data representative of the time series
      variation of the total compressed air-flow rate used in the entire production line during the
      prescribed period by integrating the time series data on the compressed air-flow rate used

                                           25
during the prescribed period, the time series data being generated for each of the plurality
of production facilities.
                          Toyota Jidosha Kabushiki Kaisha
              Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                             SPRUSON & FERGUSON

                                      <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                    FIG. 1
<removed-date>
                      10
                               COMPUTER
<removed-apn>
                                            14
              11   PROCESSOR                          DISPLAY DEVICE   141
                                  INPUT-OUTPUT IF
              12    MEMORY                             INPUT DEVICE    142
                                   STORAGE            13
                                                    (13A)

                              <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>
                            FIG. 2
<removed-date>
                             START
                                                  S101
                 INPUT ROUTE OF MAIN PIPING
<removed-apn>
                                                  S102
               INPUT DIAMETER OF MAIN PIPING
                                                  S103
              INPUT NUMBER OF FACILITIES AND LAYOUT
                                                  S104
                ACQUIRE AIR-FLOW RATE WAVEFORM
                FROM AIR-FLOW RATE WAVEFORM DB
                                           S105
                        IS THERE SPECIAL            NO
                           WAVEFORM?
                           YES
                                                  S106
                 DIGITIZE SPECIAL WAVEFORM
                 S107
               UPDATE AIR-FLOW RATE WAVEFORM DB
                                                  S108
                  INPUT NUMBER AND POSITION
                OF STANDARD IN-PROCESS STOCKS
                                                  S109
                        INPUT TACT TIME
                                                  S110
                    INPUT SIMULATION TIME
                              END

                                                  <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                               FIG. 3
<removed-date>                             PIPING ROUTE INPUT
              SIDE VIEW                                 TOP VIEW
<removed-apn>       COM-      FACILITY     MAIN PIPING        COM-      FACILITY   MAIN PIPING
                 PRESSOR                                   PRESSOR
              PIPING INFORMATION
              PIPING DIAMETER [mm]
                AIR PRESSURE [Mpa]
                                               FIG. 4
                           NUMBER OF FACILITIES AND LAYOUT INPUT
                             FACILITY
                             WORKPIECE FLOW

                                             <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                          FIG. 5
<removed-date>                      FACILITY SPECIFICATION INPUT
              PROCESS NO.                 MULTIPLE-ROW PROCESS
                                          MULTIPLE-ROW TARGET
<removed-apn>
              FACILITY TYPE               PROCESS NO.
              CYCLE TIME [sec]
              WORKING PRESSURE
              [MPa]

                                       <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                      FIG. 6
<removed-date>
              AIR-FLOW RATE [L/min]
<removed-apn>
                                                            t [sec]
                                               DIGITIZED
              AIR-FLOW RATE [L/min]
                                                    DIGITIZED
                                                    ACTUAL WAVEFORM
                                                            t [sec]

                                        <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                       FIG. 7
<removed-date>   INPUT OF NUMBER AND POSITION OF STANDARD IN-PROCESS STOCKS
<removed-apn>               PRESENCE OF      FACILITY   WORKPIECE FLOW
                         WORKPIECE
                                       FIG. 8
                         SPECIFICATION OF ENTIRE LINE
              TACT TIME [sec]
              SIMULATION TIME [min]
              PRESSURE OF AIR DISCHARGED
              FROM COMPRESSOR [MPa]
              AIR-FLOW RATE DISCHARGED
              FROM COMPRESSOR [NL/min]

                                                       <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                      FIG. 9
<removed-date>
               < FIRST            < INTERMEDIATE               < INTERMEDIATE    < FINAL
              PROCESS >              PROCESS >                    PROCESS >     PROCESS >
              NO. (n - (n - 1))   NO. (n - (n - 2))               NO. (n - 1)     NO. (n)
               PROCESS              PROCESS                       PROCESS        PROCESS
              PRODUCTION          PRODUCTION                     PRODUCTION     PRODUCTION
<removed-apn>
                FACILITY            FACILITY                       FACILITY       FACILITY
               (n - (n - 1))       (n - (n - 2))                    (n - 1)         (n)

                               <U+2701> <U+2702>
                           FIG. 10A
<removed-date>
                              START
                                          S201
                    CALCULATE PIPING LOSS
                                                      A
                                          S301
                       START FACILITY (n)
<removed-apn>
                   S302
                             IS                  NO
                     WORKPIECE PRESENT
                       IN FACILITY (n)?
                            YES           S303
                    BRING OUT WORKPIECE
                   S304
                              IS
                     WORKPIECE PRESENT           NO
                      IN FACILITY (n - 1)?
                            YES           S305
                      BRING IN WORKPIECE
                                          S306
                    ACQUIRE AIR-FLOW RATE DATA
                                          S307
                    BRING OUT WORKPIECE
                                          S308
                                IS
              NO          SIMULATION TIME
                             REACHED?
                            YES           S309
                      END PRODUCTION (n)
                                                      B
                                          S202
                    OUTPUT AIR-FLOW RATE
                     DATA ON ENTIRE LINE
                                          S203
                    OUTPUT MAXIMUM VALUE
                               END

                                                    <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                FIG. 10B
<removed-date>   A
                                          S401                                     S501
                          START FACILITY                          START FACILITY
                              (n - 1)                               (n - (n - 1))
<removed-apn>
                                          S402                                     S502
                               IS                                        IS
                          WORKPIECE        NO                     WORKPIECE        YES
                       PRESENT IN FACILITY                     PRESENT IN FACILITY
                            (n - 1)?                               (n - (n - 1))?
                              YES                                            NO      S503
                       S403
                               IS                               BRING IN WORKPIECE
                          WORKPIECE                                                S504
                       PRESENT IN FACILITY
                              (n)?         YES                 ACQUIRE AIR-FLOW RATE DATA
                              NO          S404                                     S505
                                                                         IS
                       BRING OUT WORKPIECE                        WORKPIECE        YES
                                                               PRESENT IN FACILITY
                                                                   (n - (n - 2))?
                                          S405
                               IS
                          WORKPIECE        NO                         NO           S506
                       PRESENT IN FACILITY
                            (n - 2)?                           BRING OUT WORKPIECE
                              YES                                                  S507
                                          S406                         IS
                        BRING IN WORKPIECE                NO
                                                                 SIMULATIONTIME
                                          S407                      REACHED?
                       ACQUIRE AIR-FLOW RATE DATA                    YES           S508
                                          S408                  END PRODUCTION
                       BRING OUT WORKPIECE                         (n - (n - 1))
                                          S409
                  NO           IS
                         SIMULATION TIME
                            REACHED?
                              YES         S410
                        END PRODUCTION
                             (n - 1)
              B

                                                    <U+2701> <U+2702>
                                                  FIG. 11
<removed-date>
                                            200
                                            160
              AIR-FLOW RATE [L/min]
                                            120
<removed-apn>
                                            80
                                            40
                                              0
                                                            TIME [sec]
                                                  FIG. 12
                                            200
                                            160
                    AIR-FLOW RATE [L/min]
                                            120
                                             80
                                             40
                                              0
                                                            TIME [sec]

                               <U+2701> <U+2702>
                           FIG. 13A
<removed-date>
              AIR-FLOW RATE [L/min]
<removed-apn>
                                      t [sec]
                           FIG. 13B
              AIR-FLOW RATE [L/min]
                                      t [sec]
                           FIG. 13C
              AIR-FLOW RATE [L/min]
                                      t [sec]

                                                <U+2702><U+2701> <U+2702>
                                            FIG. 14
<removed-date>
                                                                         STANDBY PERIOD
                                                                         OPERATION PERIOD
                           t1   t2 t3   t4 t5          t6   t7 t8   t9 t10   t11
                                                                                   t [sec]
              AIR-FLOW RATE
<removed-apn>
              IN PRODUCTION
                 FACILITY A
              AIR-FLOW RATE
              IN PRODUCTION
                 FACILITY B
              AIR-FLOW RATE
              IN PRODUCTION
                 FACILITY C
                 MAXIMUM
                  VALUE
                  TOTAL
              AIR-FLOW RATE

