Abstract
Provided are methods, devices and non-transitory computer readable storage mediums to
generate a more accurate weather forecast by utilizing actual observation of a weather event
in a particular location and time. For example, the observation data may be received from a
user device and contain information indicative of a weather event that the user observed.
Alternatively, or additionally, the observation data may be automatically generated by one or
more sensors placed in certain locations and transmitted to a central server automatically
upon detecting an observation. The observation data may be used to predict a weather
forecast of a location that corresponds to, or is otherwise related to the particular location in
which the observed event occurred.

METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR REFINING WEATHER FORECASTS USING
                             POINT OBSERVATIONS
            CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]       This application claims priority of co-owned and co-invented U.S.
Patent Application No. 13/856,923 filed on April 4, 2013, U.S. Patent
Application No. 13/922,800, filed on June 20, 2013, U.S. Patent Application
No. 13/947,331, filed on July 22, 2013, U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/839,675, filed on June 26, 2013, U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/835,626, filed on June 16, 2013, and U.S. Provisional Application No.
61/836,713, filed on June 19, 2013,          the entire disclosures of which are
hereby incorporated by reference.
                                  BACKGROUND
(a) Field
[00021       The subject matter disclosed generally relates to methods for producing
weather forecasts. More specifically, the subject matter relates to software
applications for producing weather forecasts.
(b) Related Prior Art
[0003]       Presently available systems for producing weather forecasts are push
systems only; that is, the system gathers information from sensors, databases, etc.,
produces a weather forecast based on this information and pushes the weather
forecast to users.
[0004]       Users often find that the forecast is not accurate for their location and the
producer of the forecast has no way to determine if their forecasts are really accurate.
[0005]       There is a need in the market for pulling information from observers,
who may also be users, located on the territory for which weather forecasts are
produced to help increase the accuracy of the weather forecasts.
                                           1

                                       SUMMARY
[0006]        There may be provided a computer-implemented method comprising:
receiving, from a remote device, weather-related observation data associated with a
first location and a first time, the weather-related observation data comprising data
obtained from observing a weather-related event associated with the first location and
the first time, generating a weather forecast associated with a second location and a
second time based on the weather-related observation data, and outputting the
weather forecast to the remote device.
[0007]        In some embodiments, the method may comprise forming an image of
the second location, the image comprising pixels associated with weather forecast
values.
[0008]        In some embodiments, the method may comprise forming at least two
images of the second location, each of the images being associated with a different
time.
[0009]        In some embodiments, the weather-related event may comprise at least
one of hail, wind, lightening, temperature, precipitation and intensity of sunlight.
[0010]        In some embodiments, the method may comprise modifying a weather
forecast value associated with a pixel based on the weather-related observation data.
[0011]        In some embodiments, the weather-related event may be observed by a
user operating the remote device, and the user causes the remote device to transmit
the weather-related observation data.
[0012]        In some embodiments, the remote device may automatically transmit
weather-related observation data upon detecting an observation of a weather-related
event.
[0013]        In some embodiments, the method may comprise: receiving, from a
second remote device, second weather-related observation data associated with a
third location and a third time, the second weather-related observation data
comprising data obtained from observing a weather-related event associated with the
                                           2

third location and the third time, wherein the weather forecast associated with the
second location and the second time is generated based on both the weather-related
observation data associated with the first location and the first time and the second
weather-related observation data associated with the third location and the third time.
[0014]        In some embodiments, the method may comprise: storing the received
weather-related observation data, producing a statistic about the stored
weather-related observation data, the statistic comprising information indicative of a
number of remote devices that have received the weather forecast, and outputting at
least part of the statistic to the remote device.
[0015]        In some embodiments, the method may comprise: comparing the
weather-related observation data with pre-stored weather data, and determining,
based on the comparison, weight of the weather-related observation data that affects
the generating of weather forecast.
[0016]        In some embodiments, the method may comprise: producing a trust
rating associated with the remote device, and determining, based on the trust rating,
weight of the weather-related observation data received from the remote device that
affects the generating of weather forecast. Additionally or alternatively, a trust rating
may be assigned to a user who may be operating, or otherwise associated with, one or
more remote devices.
[0017]        In other embodiments, there may be a method for refining a weather
forecast that comprise: obtaining weather-related observations at a particular position
and at a given time, and using the weather-related observations in forming a gridded
image of a particular area on Earth, the gridded image comprising pixels wherein
each pixel has a value which corresponds to a weather value which in turn
corresponds to a weather forecast, wherein forming a gridded image comprises
forming multiple gridded images, each gridded image corresponds to a moment in
time.
[0018]        Further, there may also be a method for forecasting a presence of
weather-related events at a particular position at a given time.    In some
                                            3

embodiments, the method may comprise: obtaining a weather-related observation of a weather
related event at the particular position and at the given time, changing or confirming a weather
value in a gridded image based on the weather-related observation, and producing a weather
forecast using the changed or confirmed weather value.
[0019]           In other embodiments, there may be a method for using contributions from
observers in a weather forecast. The method may comprise: obtaining weather-related
observations from the observers, each observation being made at a particular position and at a
given time, using the weather-related observations from the observers in the production a future
weather forecast for a user, calculating statistics about the weather-related observations from the
observers, weather forecasts and users that have benefited from the observations, and sending to
at least one of the observers a message comprising at least part of the statistics about the weather
related observations from at least one of the observers.
[0020]           In some embodiments, there may be a device comprising one or more processors,
a memory storing computer instructions that can be executed by the one or more processors such
that the device is caused to perform any one or more of the methods described above, when the
instructions are executed. Further, there may be a non-transitory computer-readable medium
storing such instructions. The device may be a mobile device such as, non-exclusively, a
handheld device, a cellphone, a vehicle, etc.
[0020a]          According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a
computer-implemented method, comprising:
         receiving, from a remote device, weather-related observation data input by a user of
the remote device, the weather-related observation data indicating a weather-related event at
a location and a time;
         determining a trust rating indicative of a reliability of the user by comparing weather
related observation data to objective weather data;
         determining, based on the trust rating, a weight associated with the weather-related
observation data;
         setting a value of a pixel in an image based on the weather-related observation data
and the weight, the pixel associated with the location;
         generating a weather forecast based on the image; and
         outputting the weather forecast.
                                                    4

[0020b]         According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a device
comprising:
        one or more processors;
        a memory that stores instructions for the one or more processors; and
        a communication module to connect to a remote device via a communication network,
                wherein when the one or more processors execute the instructions stored in the
                memory, the device is caused to:
                receive, from the remote device, weather-related observation data aim-pt input
                        by a user of the remote device, the weather-related observation data
                        indicating a weather-related event at a location and a time;
                determine a trust rating indicative of a reliability of the user by comparing the
                        weather-related observation data to objective weather data;
                determine, based on the trust rating, a weight associated with the weather
                        related observation data;
                set a value of a pixel in an image based on the weather-related observation
                        data and the weight, the pixel associated with the location;
                generate a weather forecast based on the image; and
                output the weather forecast.
[0020c]         According to another aspect of the present invention, there is provided a system
comprising a server and a remote device that is connected to the server over a communication
network, wherein:
        the server comprises one or more processors and a non-transitory computer readable
                medium storing a program causing the one or more processors to execute a
                weather forecast generation process, the weather forecast generation process
                comprising:
                receiving, from the remote device, weather-related observation data input by a
                        user of the remote device, the weather-related observation data
                        indicating a weather-related event at a location and a time;
                determining a trust rating indicative of a reliability of the user by comparing
                        the weather-related observation data to objective weather data;
                determining, based on the trust rating, a weight associated with the weather
                        related observation data;
                                                 4a

               setting a value of a pixel in an image based on the weather-related observation
                       data and the weight, the pixel associated with the location;
               generating a weather forecast based on the image; and
               outputting the weather forecast to the remote device; and
        the remote device comprises a computer, a display and a non-transitory computer
               memory storing a program causing the computer to execute a process
               comprising:
               obtaining the weather forecast outputted from the server over the
                       communication network; and
               causing, on the display, presentation of at least part of the weather forecast.
                    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0021]         Further features and advantages of the present disclosure will become apparent
from the following detailed description, taken in combination with the appended drawings, in
which:
[0022]         Figure 1A shows an example of a block diagram of a system for producing
weather forecasts using point observations (a nowcaster) according to an embodiment;
                                [This page continues on page 5]
                                                 4b

[0023]       Figure 1 B shows an example of a block diagram of a system for
producing weather forecasts using point observations (a nowcaster) according to
another embodiment;
[0024]       Figure IC shows an example of a block diagram of a system for
producing weather forecasts using point observations (a nowcaster) according to
another embodiment.
[0025]       Figure 2 shows an example of a flow chart of a method for
crowd-sourcing weather observations for producing weather forecasts from the
observations according to an embodiment;
[0026]       Figure 3 shows an example of a flow chart of a method for forecasting
hail based on point observations and weather radar data according to an embodiment;
[0027]       Figure 4 shows an example of a flow chart of a method for using
contributions from observers in a weather forecast according to an embodiment;
[0028]       Figures 5A to 5D are screenshots showing an example of an application
used for presenting a weather forecast and for obtaining point observations from
observers according to an embodiment;
[0029]       Figure 6 shows an example of a network environment in which the
embodiments may be practiced; and
[0030]       Figure 7 illustrates an exemplary diagram of a suitable computing
operating environment in which embodiments of the claimed subject matter may be
practiced.
[0031]       It will be noted that, throughout the appended drawings, like features are
identified by like reference numerals.
                            DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0032]       The embodiments will now be described more fully hereinafter with
reference to the accompanying drawings, which form a part hereof, and which show,
by way of illustration, specific embodiments by which the embodiments may be
practiced. The embodiments are also described so that the disclosure conveys the
                                          5

scope of the claimed subject matter to those skilled in the art. The embodiments may,
however, be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited
to the embodiments set forth herein.
[0033]        Among other things, the present embodiments may be embodied as
methods or devices. Accordingly, the embodiments may take the form of an entirely
hardware embodiment, an entirely software embodiment, an embodiment combining
software and hardware aspects, etc. Furthermore, although the embodiments are
described with reference to a portable or handheld device, they may also be
implemented on desktops, laptop computers, tablet devices or any computing device
having sufficient computing resources to implement the embodiments.
[0034]        Definitions
[00351        In the present specification, the following terms are meant to be defined
as indicated below:
[00361        Nowcasting: The term nowcasting is a contraction of "now" and
"forecasting"; it refers to the sets of techniques devised to make short-term forecasts,
typically in the 0 to 12 hour range.
[0037]        A nowcaster is a weather forecasting device which prepares very
short-term (e.g., one minute, five minutes, 15 minutes, 30 minutes, etc.) forecasts for
a given territory, which is a very small region on Earth (5 meters, 10 meters, 50
meters, 100 meters, 500 meters, 1,000 meters, etc.).
[0038]        A weather value is a weather-related quantity or attribute of any sort
such as temperature, pressure, visibility, precipitation type and intensity,
accumulation, cloud cover, wind, etc.
[00391        A forecasted weather value is a weather value that is predicted by the
nowcaster.
[0040]        A weather-related event is, for example, at least one of hail, a wind gust,
lightning, a temperature change, etc.
                                            6

[0041]        Precipitation type (PType): indicates the type of precipitation. Examples
of precipitation types include, but are not limited to, rain, snow, hail, freezing rain,
ice pellets, ice crystals, etc.
[0042]        Precipitation rate (PRate): indicates the precipitation intensity. Examples
of precipitation rate values include, but are not limited to, no (i.e., none), light,
moderate, heavy, extreme, etc. In an embodiment, the precipitation rate can also be
expressed as a range of values such as: none to light, light to moderate, moderate to
heavy, or any combination of the above.
[0043]        Precipitation probability: indicates the probability that precipitation
might occur. Examples of precipitation probability values include, but are not limited
to, no, unlikely, slight chance of, chance of, likely, very likely, certain, etc.
[0044]        In an embodiment, the precipitation probability can also be expressed as
a range of values such as: none to light, light to moderate, moderate, or to heavy.
Precipitation probability may also be expressed in terms of percentages; e.g., 0%,
25%, 50%, 75%, 100%, etc.; or ranges of percentages; e.g., 0% to 25%, 25% to 50%,
50% to 75%, 75% to 100%, etc. In an embodiment, the precipitation probability may
be taken from a probability distribution.
[0045]        Precipitation type and precipitation rate categories (PTypeRate): a
PTypeRate category is combination of precipitation type and precipitation rate to
which may be associated a probability of occurrence for a given period to indicate the
possibility of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a certain rate.
[00461        A weather forecast is a set of one or more forecasted weather values that
are displayable to users.
[0047]        A weather-related observation may be an image, a video, a free-form text
(tweet, message, email, etc.), a weather value of any sort such as temperature,
pressure, visibility, precipitation type and intensity, accumulation, cloud cover, wind,
etc.
[0048]        A point observation is an observation, as defined herein, made at a
particular position (sometimes also referred to as a "location") at a given time.
                                           7

[0049]        The particular position is the position on Earth at which the observation
is made. A precision of five meters to 10 meters is appropriate for the embodiments
described herein, but the variation in the position may be greater, such as 25 meters,
50 meters, 100 meters, 1000 meters or more (e.g., less precision). The means for
obtaining the particular position include any type of geo-location means or
positioning system available at the time of filing this patent application. The
geo-location means or positioning system may be automated or not. Automated
geo-location means or positioning systems include global positioning systems, RF
location systems, radiolocation technologies, Internet Protocol (IP) addresses, MAC
addresses, WiFi, Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), etc. The positioning
systems may also be manual, such as providing a street address, street corner,
building or landmark, etc.
[0050]        A given time is defined as the hour, minute and second at which the
point observation is made in the time zone corresponding to the particular position.
The hour, minute and second for the given time can also be recorded according to
Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) or Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) such that the
given time is independent of the particular position. The precision of the given time
may be more or less than one second.       For example, in some embodiments, a
precision of 5 seconds, 10 seconds, 30 seconds, 60 seconds, etc., may be sufficient
for the embodiments described herein.
[00511        A user is a person to whom a weather forecast is forwarded. An observer
is an entity providing automated and/or manned observations. An observer may be a
person or an automated machine. An observer may also be a user as defined herein.
[0052]        A gridded image is an image which comprises latitude and longitude
coordinates. It is therefore a collection of bi-dimensional geo-localized points I
pixels.
[0053]        Each pixel in a gridded image corresponds to a position and can either
represent a single weather value, a probability distribution of values or a level of
confidence.
                                            8

[0054]       Briefly stated, the present embodiments describe a computer
implemented method and system for generating more accurate weather forecasts by
taking into account not only the various types of weather values but also the actual
observations in particular locations at particular times. Such observations can be
automated and pushed to a database automatically, or can be user-oriented such as
users individually reporting their observations.
[0055]       Nowcaster
[0056]       Figures 1A-IC are examples of block diagrams of a nowcaster according
to the present description.
[0057]       As shown in Figures 1A-IC, the nowcaster 200 receives weather
observations from different sources 201 such as weather observations sources
including but not limited to: point observations 201-2 (e.g. feedback provided by
users and automated stations), weather radars 201-3, satellites 201-4 and other types
of weather observations 201-1, and weather forecast sources such as numerical
weather prediction (NWP) model output 201-5 and weather forecasts and advisories
201-6.
[0058]       The nowcaster 200 comprises a memory 220 and a processor 210. The
memory 220 comprises the instructions for the method and also stores data from the
weather sources 201, intermediate results and weather forecasts. The processor 210
allows the nowcaster 200 to perform calculations.
[0059]       The nowcaster 200 can receive information 230 from a user 150 through
a communication network 254. According to an embodiment, this information 230
may be a chosen time increment.
[0060]       The nowcaster 200 outputs a weather forecast, or a succession of weather
forecasts.
[0061]       Figure lB is one embodiment of the nowcaster 200. In this embodiment,
the nowcaster 200 comprises a PType distribution forecaster 202 and a PRate
distribution forecaster 204. The PType forecaster 202 receives the weather
observations from the different sources 201 and outputs a probability distribution of
                                          9

 precipitation type over an interval of time, for a given latitude and longitude (and/or
 location). For example:
      a. Snow: 10%
      b. Rain: 30%
      c. Freezing Rain: 60%
      d. Hail: 0%
      e. Ice Pellets: 0%
 [0062]        Similarly, the PRate forecaster 204 receives the weather observations for
 a given latitude and longitude from the different sources 201 and outputs a
probability distribution forecast of a precipitation rate (PRate) in a representation that
expresses the uncertainty. For example, the PRate may be output as a probability
distribution of precipitation rates or a range of rates over an interval of time, for a
given latitude and longitude. For example:
      f. No Precip.: 30%
      g. Light: 40%
      h. Moderate: 20%
      i. Heavy: 10%
[0063]         The PRate and PType values output by the PRate forecaster 204 and the
PType forecaster 202 are sent to a forecast combiner 206 to combine these values into
a single value PTypeRate which represents the precipitation outcomes. For example,
if the value of PType is "Snow," and the value of "PRate" is heavy, the combined
value of PTypeRate may be "heavy snow."
[00641         For a given latitude and longitude, the system outputs forecasted
PTypeRate Distributions for predefined time intervals, either fixed (ex: 1 minute) or
variable (ex: one minute, then five minutes, then 10 minutes, etc.). The system can
either pre-calculate and store forecasted PTypeRate Distributions in a sequence of
time intervals, or calculate it in real time. A PTypeRate Distribution represents, for
each time interval, the certainty or uncertainty that a PTypeRate will occur.
                                            10

    [0065]        With reference to Figure 1B, the forecast combiner 206 receives the final
    PRate distribution from the PType forecaster 202 and the final PRate distribution
    from the PRate forecaster 204 to combine them into a group of PTypeRate
    distribution values, each representing the probability of receiving a certain type of
   precipitation at a certain rate. An example is provided below.
    [0066]        Assuming that the PType distribution is as follows: Snow: 50%, Rain:
   0%, Freezing rain: 30%, Hail: 0%, Ice pellets: 20%, and the PRate distribution is as
   follows: None: 0%, Light: 10%, Moderate: 20%, Heavy: 30%, Very heavy: 40%, the
   PTypeRate distributions may be as follows:
Table 1: An Example of PTypeRate Distribution Table
   PType        Snow            Rain        Freez. Rain         Hail         Ice Pellets
PRate            50%             0%             30%             0%              20%
None 0%           No             No              No              No              No
            precipitation   precipitation  precipitation   precipitation    precipitation
  Light        5% light          No           3% light          No          2% light ice
  10%            snow       precipitation  freezing rain   precipitation       pellets
Moderate         10%             No        6% moderate          No         4% moderate
  20%          moderate     precipitation  freezing rain   precipitation     ice pellets
                 snow
 Heavy        15% heavy          No          9% heavy           No           6% heavy
  30%           snow        precipitation  freezing rain   precipitation     ice pellets
  Very       20% heavy           No          12% very           No            8% very
 Heavy          snow        precipitation      heavy       precipitation     heavy ice
  40%                                      freezing rain                       pellets
   [0067]        Accordingly, the forecast combiner 206 multiplies the probability of
   each type of precipitation by the probability of each rate of precipitation to obtain a
   probability of receiving a certain type of precipitation at a certain rate for example,
   20% chance of heavy snow, or 12% chance of very heavy freezing rain. In an
   embodiment, it is possible to associate probability ranges with textual information for
                                             11

displaying the textual information to a user instead of the probabilities in numbers.
For example, probabilities that are between 5% and 15% may be associated with the
text: "low chance," while probabilities that are between 40% and 70% may be
associated with the text "high chance," or "very likely," etc. whereby, instead of
displaying: "60% chance of heavy snow," it is possible to display: "high chance of
heavy snow."
[0068]        In another embodiment, it is possible to combine two or more different
PTypeRates along one or more dimensions (the dimensions including: the rate, type
or probability). For example, results of such combination may include: Likely light to
moderate rain, Likely light to moderate rain or heavy snow; Likely moderate rain or
snow; likely rain or snow; chance of light to moderate rain or heavy snow or light
hail; chance of moderate rain, snow or hail; chance of rain, snow or hail, etc.
[00691        Accordingly, the nowcaster 200 receives the location for which the
nowcasts are needed and the time and/or time interval for which the nowcasts are
needed and outputs the PTypeRate distribution for the given location and for the
specific time.
[0070]        Figure 1C illustrates another embodiment of the nowcaster 200. In this
embodiment, the nowcaster 200 comprises a PType selector/receiver 202-C and a
PRate distribution forecaster 204.
[0071]        Similar to the embodiment shown in Figure 1B, the PRate distribution
forecaster 204 receives the weather observations for a given latitude and longitude
from the different sources 201 and outputs a probability distribution forecast of a
precipitation rate (PRate) in a representation that expresses the uncertainty. For
example, the PRate may be output as a probability distribution of precipitation rates
or a range of rates over an interval of time, for a given latitude and longitude. For
example:
     f. No Precip.: 30%
     g. Light: 40%
     h. Moderate: 20%
                                           12

     i. Heavy: 10%
[0072]        However, the PType selector/receiver 202-C does not output a
probability distribution associated with different types of precipitation. Instead, the
PType selector/receiver 202-C receives weather observations for a given latitude and
longitude from the different sources 201 to select one precipitation type from a list of
different precipitation types. For example, based on the inputs received from the
sources 201, the PType selector/receiver 202-C selects a single precipitation type that
is most likely to occur in the given latitude and longitude (and/or location) from the
following list of precipitation types:
     a. Snow
     b. Rain
     c. Freezing Rain
     d. Hail
     e. Ice Pellets
     f. Mix (e.g., a+c, a+d, b+c, a+e, c+e, d+e, etc.)
[0073]        From the list of precipitation types such as the one above, only one
precipitation type is selected for a given location. For example, a mix of snow and
freezing rain can be selected as the most likely precipitation type for a given location
at a given time. The precipitation type is not associated with a probability value. In
fact, since only one precipitation type is selected for any given location and time
corresponding to the location, the selected precipitation type will have the effective
probability value of 100%.
[0074]        The list of precipitation types that are available for selection of one type
may include a mix type that represents a mix of two different precipitation types (e.g.,
snow and freezing rain, hail and ice pellets, etc.). A mix type is considered as a
distinct precipitation type available for selection and, as shown above in (f) of the list,
there can be many different mix types representing the mix of different pairs of
various precipitation types.
                                           13

[0075]         In another embodiment, the precipitation type is not selected by the
PType selector/receiver 202-C but instead is received from a source outside the
nowcaster 200. In other words, the nowcaster 200 may request to a remote source
(e.g., a third-party weather service) identification of the precipitation type that is
most likely to occur for a given location at a given time and receive a response from
the source identifying the most likely precipitation type. In this case, selection of the
precipitation type is not performed by the nowcaster 200. The nowcaster 200 merely
is inputted with the already-selected precipitation type and thereby can save
computational power of the nowcaster 200 that would otherwise have been needed to
perform the selection.
[0076]         The selected precipitation type and the PRate values respectively output
by the PType selector/receiver 202-C and the PRate distribution forecaster 204 are
combined. For example, if the selected precipitation type is snow, and the PRate
values are as described above, the combined information would indicate:
      a. No Snow: 30%
      b. Light Snow: 40%
      c. Moderate Snow: 20%
      d. Heavy Snow: 10%.
[00771        As only one precipitation type is concerned, only minimal amount of
computational power is needed to perform the combining to output the final weather
forecast data. Since the PType selector/receiver 202-C will output one (1)
precipitation type for a given location and time, if the PRate distribution forecaster
204 outputs a number m of probability distribution, the final weather forecast data
will comprise only a number m (m*1) of weather forecast distribution.
[0078]        In outputting the final weather forecast data, it is possible to associate
probability ranges with textual information for displaying the textual information to
the user instead of the probabilities in numbers, similar to the embodiment shown in
Figure lB. For example, probabilities that are between 5% and 15% may be
associated with the text: "low chance," while probabilities that are between 40% and
                                           14

70% may be associated with the text "high chance," or "very likely," etc. whereby,
instead of displaying: "60% chance of heavy snow," it is possible to display: "high
chance of heavy snow."
[0079]       Accordingly, the nowcaster 200 receives the location for which the
nowcasts are needed and the time and/or time interval for which the nowcasts are
needed and outputs the selected PType and PRate distribution for the given location
and for the specific time.
[0080]       The nowcaster according to the embodiment shown in Figure IC may be
advantageous over the embodiment shown in Figure 1B in certain circumstances in
which efficiency is desired. The embodiment of Figure IC can be implemented using
much less processing power than the embodiment of Figure 1B. However, the
embodiment of Figure 1B may be more suitable than the embodiment of Figure IC in
providing more detailed and accurate snapshot of weather forecast data for any given
location and time.
[0081]       Crowd-sourcing weather observations
[00821       Briefly stated, the present embodiments describe a system and/or a
method that collects and manages weather-related observations (or referred to as just
"observations") from users and/or automated machines to generate observation
mosaics (e.g., mosaics) for the purpose of weather forecasting. The system comprises
many automated and/or manned observation sources (e.g., the observers) that send
geo-tagged observations to a database. A mosaic builder incorporates the
observations to form a gridded image (e.g., a mosaic) of a particular area on the globe
(e.g., the domain) thus creating a "best-guess" of weather values for each pixel in the
domain. The embodiments of the nowcaster illustrated in Figures 1A-IC take in user
observation data (e.g., 201-2) as inputs to predicting or otherwise identifying the
most accurate forecasted precipitation type and precipitation rate distribution for any
given location at any given time.
                                          15

  [0083]         To build a mosaic, the mosaic builder chooses the observations to
  include based on time-of-observation and position. Each observation is positioned on
  the Mosaic at precisely the geo-location provided.
  [0084]        A region around the observation is defined (observation region). Each
  point in an observation region may contribute to the mosaic based on various factors
  such as distance to observation, time of observation, observer trust and reliability
  factor, and more factors.
  [0085]        Now turning to Figure 2, there is shown a flow chart of a method 300 for
  crowd-sourcing weather observations for producing weather forecasts from the
 observations according to an embodiment.
  [0086]        The method 300 comprises:
            - obtaining weather-related observations at a particular position and at a
       given time (e.g., step 302);
            -saving the weather-related observations in a database (e.g., step 304); and
            - using the weather-related observations in forming a gridded image of a
       particular area on Earth, the gridded image comprising pixels wherein each pixel
       has a value which corresponds to a weather value which in turn corresponds to a
       weather forecast (e.g., step 306).
 [0087]         According to another embodiment of method 300, the step of obtaining
the weather-related observations is automated or made by observers.
 [0088]         According to another embodiment, a mechanism is provided to deal with
overlapping observation regions. For example, an observation is reported to a
database. The observation may be tagged with a certain location and time such that
when a second observation in the same location is later reported, it can be associated
with the first reported observation. If the second observation is made at a time that is
only within a short time period from the time at which the first observation is made,
the second observation may be disregarded as a redundant report.
                                           16

 [0089]        According to another embodiment, a mechanism is provided to rate the
 trustworthiness and reliability of weather observations. For example, if a report
 includes information that is inconsistent with the pre-stored weather data (e.g., a user
 reports snow in a certain location at certain time, but other objective weather data
 such as temperature, pressure, etc., indicate that snow is impossible in that certain
 location and time), then the user is given a reduced trust rating. The pre-stored
 weather data may include only the data obtained from objective weather sources and
 not data individually reported from users. The trust rating may be provided on a scale,
 and any reports from a source with a trust rating below a threshold may be
disregarded in entirety.
 [0090]       According to another embodiment, the mosaic may be used in a weather
nowcasting system.
[0091]        Forecasting hail based on points observations
[0092]        Briefly stated, the present embodiments describe a system and/or method
that forecasts hail using an observation of the hail, a displacement field (e.g., flow
field) and possibly weather radar data. The position and time of a hail event (e.g.,
observation) is transmitted to a computer. The computer attempts to determine if the
weather radar signature is consistent with the hail observation. If it is, a region (e.g.,
hail area) is created by using radar signature, or not, and hail is forecasted into the
future by analyzing motion of precipitation captured from radar and displacing hail
area along the motion. If no radar correlation exists, a region (e.g., hail area) is
created without radar. In either case, hail region can be modified as a function of time
or distance from the original hail observation. A confidence score may also be
generated as a function of time or distance from the original hail observation or any
other parameter.
[0093]        Now turning to Figure 3, there is shown a flow chart of a method 320 for
forecasting hail based on point observations and weather radar data according to an
embodiment.
                                           17

[0094]         It should be noted here that hail is but one example of a weather-related
event. It should be understood that the embodiments described herein according to
Figure 3 and other figures also apply to other types of weather-related events defined
herein or known to those skilled in the art.
[0095]         The method 320 comprises:
           - obtaining a hail observation at the particular position and at the given time
     (e.g., step 322);
           - changing or confirming a weather value in a gridded image based on the
     hail observation (e.g., step 324); and
           - producing a weather forecast using the changed or confirmed weather
     value (e.g., step 326).
[0096]         According to another embodiment, method 320 further comprises
creating or confirming a hail area in a region of the gridded image using the weather
value.
[0097]         According to another embodiment, method 320 further comprises
obtaining a displacement field of weather values in or around the region of the
gridded image, analyzing the motion of the hail area and refining the weather forecast
based on the motion of the hail area.
[0098]         According to another embodiment, method 320 further comprises
determining whether a weather radar signature in the gridded image at the particular
position at the given time corresponds to a hail observation, and based on this
determination, the weather value may be changed and/or a confidence score of the
weather value may be calculated.
[0099]         Using contributions from observers in weather forecast
[00100]        Briefly stated, the present embodiments describe a system and method
for reporting to a user who has made a contribution to the calculation of a forecast
how many other people have benefited from his contribution.
                                            18

[00101]        A user makes an observation (observer) by indicating the position and
time of a weather event that is transmitted to a computer making a forecast. The
forecasting computer uses the observers' information to calculate forecasts for a
period in the future.
[00102]        Each request by a user to obtain a forecast is analyzed to generate a list
of observers who have contributed to the users' forecast. Each observer is then made
aware of the number of people (plus any other user characteristics) that have
benefited from his observation.
[00103]        A leaderboard may be constructed from this information. Observers may
be compensated with awards, or status gains or badges based on the number of users
impacted.
[00104]        Now turning to Figure 4, there is shown a flow chart of a method 330 for
using contributions from observers in a weather forecast according to an embodiment.
[00105]        The method 330 comprises:
           - obtaining weather-related observations from the observers, each
     observation being made at a particular position and at a given time (e.g., step
     332);
           - using the weather-related observations from the observers for producing a
     future weather forecast for a user (e.g., step 334);
           - calculating statistics about the weather-related observations from the
     observers (e.g., step 336); and
           - sending to at least one of the observers a message comprising at least part
     of the statistics about the weather-related observations from at least one of the
     observers (e.g., step 338).
[00106]        According to another embodiment, method 330 further comprises saving
the weather-related observations in a database.
[00107]        According to another embodiment of method 330, the step of calculating
statistics comprises generating, from the weather-related observations, a selection of
                                             19

 the observers who have contributed to the future weather forecast for the user and the
 users who have benefited from the weather forecast.
 [00108]       According to another embodiment of method 330, the step of calculating
 statistics comprises generating, from the weather-related observations and for one or
 more of the observers, a list of users for whom the observations of the one or more of
 the observers were used in producing the future weather forecast.
 [00109]       According to another embodiment of method 330, the step of calculating
 statistics comprises generating, from the weather-related observations and for each of
 the observers, a reliability of observations made from respective observers.
 [00110]       According to another embodiment of method 330, the step of calculating
 statistics comprises generating, from the weather-related observations and from at
 least one of the number of observations and the reliability of observations, an ordered
 list of the observers.
 [00111]       According to another embodiment, method 330 further comprises
providing an advantage to at least one of the observers based on the ordered list.
[00112]        Now turning to Figures 5A to 5D, there are shown screen-shots of an
application used for presenting weather forecast, and for obtaining point observations
from observers according to an embodiment.
[00113]        More specifically, Figure 5A is a screen-shot of a nowcasting application.
The screen-shot shows an "eye" icon in the top right-hand corner. The "eye" icon is
an indication to the user that an observation may be input into the system. Selecting
the "eye" icon brings up the point observations pages (see Figures 5B and 5C).
[00114]        Figures 58 and 5C are screen-shots of pages of the nowcasting
application which provides choices to the observer for making a point observation.
[00115]        Figure 5D is a screen-shot showing that "Sunny" is selected. The
"Submit" button is now activated since a selection of a point observation has been
made. Once the "Submit" button is selected, a confirmation page may be provided to
                                           20

  confirm the observer's selection. Once confirmed, the point observation is sent to the
  nowcaster.
  [00116]      Figure 6 is an example of a network environment in which the
  embodiments may be practiced. The system 200 (e.g., "nowcaster") may be
  implemented on a server/computer 250 which is accessible by a plurality of client
 computers 252 over a telecommunications network 254. The client computers may
 include but are not limited to: laptops, desktops, portable computing devices, tablets
 and the like. Using a client computer 252, each user may specify the time interval for
 which they want to receive the nowcasts and the location for which the nowcasts are
 needed. For example, the user may enter the ZIP/postal code, address, location on a
 map or the latitude and longitude of the location for which the nowcasts are needed,
 along with the time interval over which the nowcasts are needed. The time interval
 may extend between one minute and several hours.
 [00117]       Upon receiving the location information and time information, the server
 250 may receive the available weather values for the specified location, and output
 the different PTypeRates discussed above which represent the nowcasts for the
 specific location over the specified period. Accuracy of the nowcasts may also
depend on the number of weather sources available for a certain area. For example, an
area that is highly populated may include more weather radars and more media
attention (and thus more satellite coverage or forecasts) than a remote area in a forest.
The nowcaster may also output other types of weather information such as weather
events.
[00118]       The PTypeRates produced by the server 250 may then be sent to the
client computer 252 for display to the user. In an embodiment, it is possible to
display the PTypeRates in a series, one after the other, or display those having a
higher percentage.
[00119]       Hardware and operating environment
[00120]       Figure 7 illustrates an exemplary diagram of a suitable computing
operating environment in which embodiments of the claimed subject matter may be
                                          21

practiced. The following description is associated with Figure 5 and is intended to
provide a brief, general description of suitable computer hardware and a suitable
computing environment in conjunction with which the embodiments may be
implemented. Not all the components are required to practice the embodiments, and
variations in the arrangement and type of the components may be made without
departing from the spirit or scope of the embodiments.
[00121]      Although not required, the embodiments are described in the general
context of computer-executable instructions, such as program modules, being
executed by a computer, such as a personal computer, a handheld or palm-size
computer, smartphone, or an embedded system such as a computer in a consumer
device or specialized industrial controller. Generally, program modules include
routines, programs, objects, components, data structures, etc., that perform particular
tasks or implement particular abstract data types.
[00122]       Moreover, those skilled in the art will appreciate that the embodiments
may be practiced with other computer system configurations, including handheld
devices, multiprocessor systems, microprocessor-based or programmable consumer
electronics, network PCS, minicomputers, mainframe computers, cellular telephones,
smartphones, display pagers, radio frequency (RF) devices, infrared (IR) devices,
Personal Digital Assistants (PDAs), laptop computers, wearable computers, tablet
computers, a device of the iPod or iPad family of devices, integrated devices
combining one or more of the preceding devices, or any other computing device
capable of performing the methods and systems described herein. The embodiments
may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are
performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications
network. In a distributed computing environment, program modules may be located in
both local and remote memory storage devices.
[00123]       The exemplary hardware and operating environment of Figure 5 includes
a general-purpose computing device in the form of a computer 720, including a
processing unit 721, a system memory 722, and a system bus 723 that operatively
                                          22

couples various system components, including the system memory, to the processing
unit 721. There may be only one or there may be more than one processing unit 721,
such that the processor of computer 720 comprises a single central-processing unit
(CPU), or a plurality of processing units, commonly referred to as a parallel
processing environment. The computer 720 may be a conventional computer, a
distributed computer, or any other type of computer; the embodiments are not so
limited.
[00124]       The system bus 723 may be any of several types of bus structures
including a memory bus or memory controller, a peripheral bus, and a local bus using
any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory may also be referred to as
simply the "memory," and includes read-only memory (ROM) 724 and random access
memory (RAM) 725. A basic input/output system (BIOS) 726, containing the basic
routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer 720,
such as during start-up, is stored in ROM 724. In one embodiment of the claimed
subject matter, the computer 720 further includes a hard disk drive 727 for reading
from and writing to a hard disk, not shown, a magnetic disk drive 728 for reading
from or writing to a removable magnetic disk 729, and an optical disk drive 730 for
reading from or writing to a removable optical disk 731 such as a CD ROM or other
optical media. In alternative embodiments of the claimed subject matter, the
functionality provided by the hard disk drive 727, magnetic disk 729 and optical disk
drive 730 is emulated using volatile or non-volatile RAM in order to conserve power
and reduce the size of the system. In these alternative embodiments, the RAM may be
fixed in the computer system, or it may be a removable RAM device, such as a
compact flash memory card.
 [00125]      In an embodiment of the claimed subject matter, the hard disk drive 727,
 magnetic disk drive 728 and optical disk drive 730 are connected to the system bus
 723 by a hard disk drive interface 732, a magnetic disk drive interface 733 and an
 optical disk drive interface 734, respectively. The drives and their associated
 computer-readable media provide non-volatile storage of computer-readable
                                           23

instructions, data structures, program modules and other data for the computer 720. It
should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any type of computer-readable
media which can store data that is accessible by a computer, such as magnetic
cassettes, flash memory cards, digital video disks, Bernoulli cartridges, random
access memories (RAMs), read-only memories (ROMs) and the like, may be used in
the exemplary operating environment.
[00126]       A number of program modules may be stored on the hard disk, magnetic
disk 729, optical disk 731, ROM 724 or RAM 725, including an operating system 735,
one or more application programs 736, other program modules 737 and program data
738. A user may enter commands and information into the personal computer 720
through input devices such as a keyboard 740 and pointing device 742. Other input
devices (not shown) may include a microphone, joystick, game pad, satellite dish,
scanner, touch-sensitive pad or the like. These and other input devices are often
connected to the processing unit 721 through a serial port interface 746 that is
coupled to the system bus, but may be connected by other interfaces, such as a
parallel port, game port or a universal serial bus (USB). In addition, input to the
system may be provided by a microphone to receive audio input.
[00127]       A monitor 747 or other type of display device is also connected to the
system bus 723 via an interface, such as a video adapter 748. In one embodiment of
the claimed subject matter, the monitor comprises a liquid crystal display (LCD). In
addition to the monitor, computers typically include other peripheral output devices
(not shown), such as speakers and printers. The monitor may include a
touch-sensitive surface which allows the user to interface with the computer by
pressing on or touching the surface.
[00128]       The computer 720 may operate in a networked environment using logical
connections to one or more remote computers, such as a remote computer 749. These
logical connections are achieved by a communication device coupled to or a part of
the computer 720; the embodiment is not limited to a particular type of
communications device. The remote computer 749 may be another computer, a server,
                                          24

a router, a network PC, a client, a peer device or other common network node, and
typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the
computer 720, although only a memory storage device 750 has been illustrated in
Figure 6. The logical connections depicted in Figure 6 include a local-area network
(LAN) 751 and a wide-area network (WAN) 752. Such networking environments are
commonplace in offices, enterprise-wide computer networks, intranets and the
Internet.
[00129]       When used in a LAN-networking environment, the computer 720 is
connected to the local network 751 through a network interface or adapter 753, which
is one type of communications device. When used in a WAN-networking environment,
the computer 720 typically includes a modem 754, a type of communications device
or any other type of communications device for establishing communications over the
wide area network 752, such as the Internet. The modem 754, which may be internal
or external, is connected to the system bus 723 via the serial port interface 746. In a
networked environment, program modules depicted relative to the personal computer
720, or portions thereof, may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It is
 appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of
 and communications devices for establishing a communications link between the
 computers may be used.
 [00130]      The hardware and operating environment in conjunction with which
 embodiments of the claimed subject matter may be practiced has been described. The
 computer in conjunction with which embodiments of the claimed subject matter may
 be practiced may be a conventional computer, a handheld or palm-size computer, a
 computer in an embedded system, a distributed computer or any other type of
 computer; the claimed subject matter is not so limited. Such a computer typically
 includes one or more processing units as its processor, and a computer-readable
 medium such as a memory. The computer may also include a communications device
 such as a network adapter or a modem, so that it is able to communicatively couple
 other computers.
                                          25

[001311         While preferred embodiments have been described above and illustrated in the
accompanying drawings, it will be evident to those skilled in the art that modifications may
be made without departing from this disclosure. Such modifications are considered as
possible variants comprised in the scope of the disclosure.
[00132]         Mere reference to background art herein should not be construed as an
admission that such art constitutes common general knowledge in relation to the invention.
[001331         Throughout this specification, including the claims, where the context permits,
the term "comprise" and variants thereof such as "comprises" or "comprising" are to be
interpreted as including the stated integer or integers without necessarily excluding any other
integers.
                                                26

Claims
         1. A computer-implemented method, comprising:
        receiving, from a remote device, weather-related observation data input by a user of the
                remote device, the weather-related observation data indicating a weather-related
                event at a location and a time;
        determining a trust rating indicative of a reliability of the user by comparing weather
                related observation data to objective weather data;
        determining, based on the trust rating, a weight associated with the weather-related
                observation data;
        setting a value of a pixel in an image based on the weather-related observation data and
                the weight, the pixel associated with the location;
        generating a weather forecast based on the image; and
        outputting the weather forecast.
        2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the image is associated with
the time.
        3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein generating the weather
forecast is generated based further on a second image associated with a second time.
        4. The computer-implemented method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the weather-related
event comprises at least one of hail, wind, lightening, temperature, precipitation and intensity of
sunlight.
        5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the weather forecast indicates
a likely precipitation type for an area and, for each rate of a plurality of rates, a probability of the
likely precipitation type occurring at the rate.
        6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the image further includes a
second pixel associated with a second location, the computer-implemented method further
                                                  27

comprising setting a second value of the second pixel based on the weather-related observation
data, the weight, and a distance between the location and the second location.
        7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the weather forecast is sent to
another remote device distinct form the remote device, the computer-implemented method
further comprising transmitting, to the remote device, an indication that the other remote device
benefitted from the weather-related observation data.
        8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the image includes a second
pixel associated with a second location, the computer-implemented method further comprising:
        receiving, from a second remote device, second weather-related observation data input by
                a second user of the second remote device, the second weather-related observation
                data indicating a second weather-related event at the second location; and
        setting the second pixel to a second value based on the second weather-related
                observation data and a second weight, the second weight determined based on a
                second trust rating associated with the second user.
        9. The computer-implemented method of any of claims 1-8, comprising:
        storing the received weather-related observation data;
        producing a statistic associated with the stored weather-related observation data, the
                statistic comprising information indicative of a number of remote devices that
                have received the weather forecast; and
        outputting at least part of the statistic to the remote device.
        10. The computer-implemented method of any of claims 1-9, wherein comparing the
weather-related observation data to the objective weather data includes determining a likelihood
of the weather-related event indicated by the weather-related observation data occurring based on
the objective weather data.
        11. The method of claim 1, wherein the objective weather data indicates a temperature or
air pressure and the weather-related event includes snowfall.
                                                     28

      12. A device comprising:
      one or more processors;
      a memory that stores instructions for the one or more processors; and
      a communication module to connect to a remote device via a communication network,
              wherein when the one or more processors execute the instructions stored in the
              memory, the device is caused to:
              receive, from the remote device, weather-related observation data aimputt input by
                      a user of the remote device, the weather-related observation data
                      indicating a weather-related event at a location and a time;
              determine a trust rating indicative of a reliability of the user by comparing the
                      weather-related observation data to objective weather data;
              determine, based on the trust rating, a weight associated with the weather-related
                      observation data;
              set a value of a pixel in an image based on the weather-related observation data
                      and the weight, the pixel associated with the location;
              generate a weather forecast based on the image; and
              output the weather forecast.
      13. A system comprising a server and a remote device that is connected to the server over
a communication network, wherein:
      the server comprises one or more processors and a non-transitory computer readable
              medium storing a program causing the one or more processors to execute a
              weather forecast generation process, the weather forecast generation process
              comprising:
              receiving, from the remote device, weather-related observation data input by a
                      user of the remote device, the weather-related observation data indicating
                      a weather-related event at a location and a time;
              determining a trust rating indicative of a reliability of the user by comparing the
                      weather-related observation data to objective weather data;
              determining, based on the trust rating, a weight associated with the weather
                      related observation data;
                                                29

                setting a value of a pixel in an image based on the weather-related observation
                        data and the weight, the pixel associated with the location;
                generating a weather forecast based on the image; and
                outputting the weather forecast to the remote device; and
        the remote device comprises a computer, a display and a non-transitory computer
                memory storing a program causing the computer to execute a process comprising:
                obtaining the weather forecast outputted from the server over the communication
                        network; and
                causing, on the display, presentation of at least part of the weather forecast.
         14. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions corresponding to the
method of any of claims 1-11.
         15. The device of claim 12, wherein, when the one or more processors execute the
instructions, the one or more processors are further caused to receive, from a second source,
automatically generated measurements, wherein the weather forecast is generated based further
on the automatically generated measurements, and wherein the weather forecast indicates an area
predicted to be affected by the weather-related event, the area identified based on the
automatically generated measurements.
         16. The device of claim 15, wherein the automatically generated measurements include
radar measurements.
         17. The device of claim 12, wherein, when the one or more processors execute the
instructions, the device is further caused to:
        receive, from a second remote device, second weather-related observation data input by a
                second user of the second remote device; and
        set a second value of a second pixel in the image based on-the second weather-related
                observation data and a second weight associated with the second user.
                                                   30

        18. The device of claim 12, wherein comparing weather-related observation data to the
objective weather dataincludes determining whether the weather-related event indicated by the
weather-related observation data is possible based on the objective weather data.
                                                31

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
