                                                   35
   Abstract
   Proposed are a parametric, event-driven critical illness insurance system based on a
   resource-pooling system (1) and method for risk sharing of critical illness risks of a
   variable number of risk exposure components (21, 22, 23) by providing a dynamic self
 5 sufficient risk protection for the risk exposure components (21, 22, 23) by means of the
   resource-pooling system (1). The resource-pooling system (1) comprises an assembly
   module (5) to process risk-related component data (211,221,231) and to provide the
   likelihood (212, 222, 232) of said risk exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk
   exposure components (21, 22, 23, ...) based on the risk-related component data (211,
10 221, 231). The risk exposure components (21,22,23) are connected to the resource
   pooling system (1) for the pooling of their risks and resources, and wherein the
   resource-pooling system (1) comprises an multiple event-driven core-engine (3) with
   critical illness triggers (31, 32, 33) triggering in a patient dataflow pathway
   (213,223,233) to provide risk protection for a specific risk exposure component
15 (21,22,23). The operation of the resource pooling system (1) is further supported by a
   parametric risk-cover related to multiple occurrences of critical illness parameters
   71,72,73 triggered in the related patient data flow pathway (213, 223, 233).
            (Figure 1)

                                                 36
   References
   1 Resource-pooling system / Critical illness insurance system
   21, 22, 23 Risk exposure component
           211, 221, 231 Risk-related component data
 5         212, 222, 232 Likelihood of risk exposure of the pooled risk
                    exposure components
           213, 223, 233 Patient dataflow pathway
           214, 224, 234 Stored payment parameters
           215, 225, 235 Alternative patient dataflow pathway
10 3 Core engine
           30 Operating module
           31, 32, 33 Critical illness triggers
   4 Payment receiving modules
   5 Assembly module
15         50 Total Risk
                    511, 521, 531 First risk contribution
   512, 522, 532 Second risk contribution
   513, 523, 533 Third risk contribution
   51i, 52i, 53i i-th risk contribution
20 6 Payment data store
   7 Trigger table with critical illness parameter
           71, 72, 73 Critical illness parameters
   8 Monitoring module
   1001 Diagnosis phase of the critical illness
25 1002 Treatment phase (surgery, chemotherapy/radiotherapy/medication)
   1003 Recovery phase and/or terminal illness phase and/or aftercare phase
   1004 Additional support services
   2001, 2002, 2003 Parametric payment transfers from the system 1 to the risk
                    exposure units 21, 22, 23

                                                   1
   PARAMETRIC SYSTEM FOR RISK SHARING OF CRITICAL
   ILLNESS RISKS AND CORRESPONDING METHOD THEREOF
   This application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
   2013403060, filed on 18 October 2013, the contents of which are hereby incorporated
 5 by reference in its entirety.
   Field of the Invention
   The present invention relates to resource-pooling systems for providing risk sharing of
   critical illness risks of a variable number of risk exposure components by providing a
   dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for the risk exposure components by means of
10 the critical illness insurance system. In particular, the invention relates to automated
   event-driven systems triggering on the patient dataflow pathway.
   Background of the Invention
   These days, there is significant risk exposure related to many aspects in life and non-life
   sectors. Risk exposed units as any kinds of objects, individuals, corporate bodies and/or
15 legal entities, necessarily are confronted with many forms of active and passive risk
   management to hedge and protect against the risk of certain losses and events. In the
   prior art, one way to address such risk of loss is based on transferring and pooling the
   risk of loss from a plurality of risk exposed entities to a dedicated pooling entity. In
   essence, this can be executed by effectively allocating the risk of loss to this pooling
20 unit or entity by pooling resources of associated units, which are exposed to a certain
   risk. In case, that one of the units is hit by an event occurring related to a transferred
   risk, the pooling entity directly intercepts the loss or damage caused by the event by
   transferring resources from the pooled resources to the affected unit. Pooling of
   resources can be achieved by exchanging predefined amounts of resources with the
25 resource-pooling system; e.g. payments or premiums to be paid, for the transfer of the
   13854860_1

                                                  2
   risk. This means that predefined amounts of resources are exchanged for the other unit
   assuming the risk of loss.
   For living individuals, a special kind of risk is based on the risk of loss of life and
   related possible losses; i.e., losses that occur as a consequence of the death of that
 5 individual. Such risks are traditionally handled by so-called life insurance systems. To
   administer a loss for benefits provided by a life insurance policy, a substantial amount
   of information must be collected and managed by the pooling entity in order to allow
   risk-transfer. Appropriate documentation must be identified, captured and analyzed,
   such as death certificates or medical provider verification of condition or service in the
10 cases of health/supplementary health. One important problem arises by the fact that life
   insurance methods are triggered by the death of the unit, which risk is transferred.
   However, often problems arise for an individual before then, in that financial resources
   were threatened by losses occurring prior to death as a consequence of the events
   leading to death. This is mostly the case when the individual suffers from potentially
15 terminal disease, like malignant cancer, which may inevitably lead to the death of the
   individual. Typically, the patient is confronted with increasing costs for medical
   treatment or other related costs as travel expenses or additional heating costs, but also
   by the decreasing ability to earn the money needed to fulfill their monthly financial
   needs. This may lead to the necessity of having to make many sacrifices; e.g. taking
20 children out of private schools, selling their house and filling for bankruptcy. All these
   financial concerns contrariwise impacted on their health. Recovery is delayed, stress
   additionally aggravates the anyway poor health.
   As a solution, resource-pooling systems were developed that cover such "critical
   illnesses", where the resource-pooling unit operated by the insurer provides a lump sum
25 cash payment if the risk-exposed unit, which is, seen from the perspective of the insurer
   the policyholder, is diagnosed with one of the critical illnesses listed in a defined table
   of transferred risk. The operation of the resource-pooling system may also be structured
   to pay out regular income, and the payouts may also benefit the policyholder
   undergoing a surgical procedure, for example, having a heart bypass operation.

                                                    3
   Typically, such systems require the risk-exposed unit to survive a minimum number of
   days (the so-called survival period) from when the illness was first diagnosed. The
   survival period can vary; however, 14 days is the most commonly used survival period
   used. In the Australian market, survival periods are set between 8 - 14 days. However,
 5 systems as e.g. automated systems associated with indemnity based on accelerated
   payment (e.g. related to specific life insurance products) and stand alone products, are
   also known. The terms, as defined for the risk transfer, typically contain specific
   predefined triggers or rules to be applied that provide the basis for the determination of
   when a diagnosis of a critical illness is considered valid. Terms for survival periods may
10 also define parameters providing that the diagnosis need to be made by a physician who
   specializes in the treatment of that illness or condition or name specific tests, e.g. ECG
   changes in case of a myocardial infarctions, that confirm the diagnosis. In many
   markets, the trigger parameters for many of the diseases and conditions have become
   standardized; thus typically resource-pooling systems would use the same definition (cf.
15 stand alone products and accelerated critical illness systems). The standardization of the
   critical illness definitions serves many purposes, including better clarity of coverage for
   the risk-exposed units and greater comparability of terms and conditions for risk
   transfers among different resource-pooling systems. Such terms and conditions are often
   defined in the policy covering the risk transfer. For example, in the UK the Association
20 of British Insurers (ABI) has issued a Statement of Best Practice, which includes a
   number of standard definitions for common critical illnesses. The prior art also provides
   for alternative methods of critical illness risk transfer, other than the lump sum cash
   payment method. These critical illness insurance systems can directly pay health
   providers (as e.g. "tiers payant" systems) for the treatment costs involving critical and
25 life-threatening illnesses that are covered by the policyholder's insurance policy,
   including fees for specialists and procedures at a select group of high-ranking hospitals
   up to a certain amount per course of treatment as set out in the policy, but also transfer
   the payment to the customer.
   In the prior art, critical illnesses are typically covered by critical illness risk transfer;
30 these are heart attack, cancer, stroke and coronary artery by-pass surgery. Examples of

                                                   4
   other conditions that might be covered include: Alzheimer's disease, blindness,
   deafness, kidney failure, major organ transplant, multiple sclerosis, HIV/AIDS
   contracted by blood transfusion or during an operation, Parkinson's disease, paralysis of
   limb, terminal illness. One of the problems of the risk transfer system as provided by the
 5 prior art lies in the fact that the incidence of a condition may vary (i.e. in- or decrease)
   over time, and that diagnosis and treatment may improve over time, that the financial
   need to cover some illnesses deemed critical a decade ago is no longer considered
   necessary today. Likewise, some of the conditions covered today may no longer need to
   be covered a decade or so from now. It is very difficult to adapt the prior art systems to
10 such changing conditions. What is clear is the fact that the financial hardship at the time
   of diagnosis and afterwards increases during the course of treatment, which seldom can
   be meet by the present systems. Furthermore, operating the systems of the prior art
   requires a high level of human resources, because these systems cannot be adequately
   automated. Therefore, a large quantity of the pooled resources are used by the resource
15 pooling system itself to administer the risk transfer, which makes the risk transfer
   expensive for the risk-exposed unit. Finally, another problem comes from the fact that,
   due to the medical progress, many patients no longer die but can survive for many years
   after undergoing treatment for a heart attack, stroke and cancer. Due to the long
   survival period, such individuals, who were struck already once by a critical illness,
20 continue to be exposed to the risk of a second or consequential occurrence of a critical
   illness. In fact, the risk typically does not decrease, since the health of these patients is
   already weakened by the first incidence of a critical illness. Since critical illnesses are
   traditionally meant to lead to death, the risk involving such individuals, who may be
   affected by a second or even more critical illnesses is no longer covered by the
25 resource-pooling system. Therefore, although the patient survived his first bout with a
   critical illness, he may, at least financially, not survive the second time.
   In the state of the art, US 8 452 620 BI discloses a system for determining a parametric
   index value of the risk arising from aggregate litigation activity, which risk is correlated
   with the financial exposures of the insureds' exposed to such claims, and of the insurers
30 who provide coverage. The parametric index determined from a set of parameters that

                                                    5
   define the type, scope, timing of litigation activity for the index, as well as details how
   the index values are determined from the underlying litigation exposure. Further, US
   2002194099 Al discloses a for managing a proxy asset vehicle and the means to
   implement the proxy assets by defining the proxy assets set, distributing, managing, and
 5 maintaining a plurality of proxy assets shares, linked to account activity in accordance
   with pre-determined criteria."
   Summary of the Invention
   It is an object of the invention to provide a system and method for risk sharing of
   critical illness risks of a variable number of risk exposure components by providing a
10 dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for the risk exposure components by means of a
   resource-pooling system. The resource-pooling system, realized as an automated critical
   illness insurance system shall be completely automated and self-adaptable/self
   maintaining by its technical means and shall provide the technical risk transfer basis,
   which can be used by service providers in the risk transfer or insurance technology for
15 risk transfer related to critical illness risks (CI). A further object of the invention
   provides for a way to technically capture, handle and automate complex related
   operations of the insurance industry related to critical illness risk transfer. Another
   object is to synchronize and adjust such operations based on technical means. In
   contrast to the standard approach, the resource-pooling system shall create a
20 reproducible operation with the desired, technically based, repetitious accuracy based on
   technical means, process flow and process control/operation.
   According to the present invention, these objects are achieved particularly through the
   features of the independent claims. In addition, further advantageous embodiments
   follow from the dependent claims and the related description.
25 According to the present invention, the above-mentioned objects for risk sharing of
   critical illness risks of a variable number of risk exposure components are achieved,
   particularly, by providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for the risk exposure

                                                   6
   components by means of the resource-pooling system, wherein the risk exposure
   components are connected to the resource-pooling system by means of a plurality of
   payment-receiving modules configured to receive and store payments from the risk
   exposure components for the pooling of their risks and resources, and wherein the
 5 resource-pooling system comprises an event-driven core engine comprising critical
   illness triggers triggering in a patient dataflow pathway to provide risk protection for a
   specific risk exposure component based on received and stored payments (of the risk
   exposure components, in that the total risk of the pooled risk exposure components
   comprises a first risk contribution of each pooled risk exposure components associated
10 to risk exposure in relation to a first diagnosis of a critical illness, wherein the critical
   illness is comprised in a predefined searchable table of critical illnesses and wherein
   critical illness losses occur as a consequence to the first diagnosis of risk exposure
   components with one of the searchable critical illnesses, in that the total risk of the
   pooled risk exposure components comprises at least a second and/or successional risk
15 contributions associated to risk exposure in relation to a second and/or successional
   critical illnesses, wherein the critical illnesses are comprised in the predefined
   searchable table of critical illness parameters, and wherein a critical illness loss losses
   occurs as a consequence to the second and/or successional diagnosis of risk exposure
   components with one of the searchable critical illnesses, and in that in case of a
20 triggering of an occurrence of a first or second or successional critical illness in the
   patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure component, a loss associated with the first
   or second or successional critical illness(es) is distinctly covered by the resource
   pooling system by means of a parametric transfer of payments from the resource
   pooling system to the risk exposure component. The critical illness triggers can for
25 example comprise a trigger for triggering the occurrence of measuring parameters
   indicating heart attack and/or cancer and/or stroke and/or coronary artery by-pass
   surgery in the patient data flow pathway. Further, the critical illness triggers can e.g.
   comprise a trigger for triggering the occurrence of measuring parameters indicating
   Alzheimer's disease, blindness, deafness, kidney failure, major organ transplant,
30 multiple sclerosis, HIV/AIDS contracted by blood transfusion or during an operation,
   Parkinson's disease, paralysis of limb, terminal illness on the patient dataflow pathway.

                                                   7
   As an embodiment variant, it can be provided that the first parametric payment, for
   example can technically be implemented in that it only is transferred by the triggering of
   the occurrence of measuring parameters indicating the critical illness of malignant
   cancer and/or a smaller incidence for ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and/or early
 5 prostate carcinoma. Further, acute treatment phase parameters indicating surgery and/or
   chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and/or reconstructive surgery can be triggered on the
   patient data flow pathway by means of a critical illness trigger by the core engine. As an
   embodiment variant, it is provided that a second parametric payment is transferred due
   to the triggering of acute treatment phase parameters indicating surgery and/or
10 chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and/or reconstructive surgery. Additionally, recovery
   phase parameters associated with terminal prognosis data can e.g. be triggered in a
   patient data flow pathway by means of a critical illness trigger of the core engine. As a
   further embodiment variant, a third parametric payment is transferred by the triggering
   of the recovery phase parameters and/or terminal prognosis parameters. As a further
15 variant, the critical illness data of the patient dataflow pathway of the risk exposure
   component can e.g. additionally be transferred to an automated employee assistance
   system (EAP: Employee Assistance Program) providing automated support to the risk
   exposure component. Alternatively or in addition, the critical illness data of the patient
   dataflow pathway of the risk exposure component can e.g. be transferred to an alert
20 system of a Change Advisory Board (CAB) to activate automated or at least semi
   automated, CAB actions. It can also be advantageously that the patient dataflow
   pathway is e.g. monitored by the resource-pooling system by capturing patient
   measuring parameters of the patient data flow pathway at least periodically and/or
   within predefined time frames or periods. Finally, the patient data flow pathway can e.g.
25 be dynamically monitored by the resource-pooling system in that it triggers patient
   measuring parameters of the patient dataflow pathway transmitted from associated
   measuring systems. The invention has, inter alia, the advantage that the system provides
   the technical means to meet customer needs related to the financial hardships at the time
   of the diagnosis of a critical illness, which will become more acute as the treatment
30 progresses. Therefore, cancer fears and the related consequences that are suffered by
   many people can be met with the automated resource-pooling system according to the

                                                   8
   invention. The system has, furthermore, the advantage that smaller payments than in
   traditional critical illness systems are sufficient to allow for a safe operation of the
   system. The operational aspects of the system are transparent for operators as well as
   covered risk units, since payment is transferred in response to certain triggers on the
 5 cancer patient's information pathways. The system is able to provide an adaptable
   survival period e.g. 14, 21 or 28 days, to be confirmed or defined by the risk transfer.
   The system is further able to provide the technical implementation of an automated
   system that is based on a drawdown payment operation or a predefined payment
   operation. The system also provides the technical means, which can support different
10 underwriting options, such as (i) underwritten with a set of questions, (ii) in/out
   underwriting, (iii) inclusion or exclusion of Pre-Existing Condition Exclusion (PECE)
   and/or a Related Conditions Exclusion with the associated problems of risk transfer.
   PECE-problems are based on the fact that resource-pooling systems are often required
   by an employer to create safety provisions, if there is a diagnosis of a critical illness in
15 an employee, in order to provide a lump sum benefit for an employee (or the
   employee's spouse or children, if comprised in the risk transfer), who is diagnosed with
   one of the defined medical conditions or undergoes one of the listed surgical
   procedures. However, many systems fail to take over risk transfers if the individual
   suffered from the insured condition, before the risk transfer was activated (this is known
20 as the Pre-Existing Condition Exclusion), or because the individual suffered from a
   condition that led to a claim under the insured illness - for example, it was known that
   an individual suffered from high blood pressure before the risk transfer being activated,
   and suffered a stroke after the risk transfer had been activated. Another advantage of the
   system is based on the fact that payments are directly transferred to the risk transfer unit
25 or the consumer/client. Therefore, the system is able to enhance critical illness insurance
   offerings by independent financial advisers (IFA). IFAs are persons who give impartial
   advice to clients on financial matters and who are not employed by any financial
   institution, although commissions for the sale of products may be received. Especially
   the IFA service is made completely cost-transparent to the consumer.

                                                    9
   In an embodiment variant, the above-mentioned objects for risk sharing of critical
   illness risks of a variable number of risk exposure components are achieved,
   particularly, by providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for the risk exposure
   components by means of the critical illness insurance system based on a resource
 5 pooling system, in that risk-related component data are processed by an assembly
   module of the resource-pooling system and the likelihood of said risk exposure is
   provided by means of the assembly module for one or a plurality of the pooled risk
   exposure components based on the risk-related component data, wherein the risk
   exposure components are connected to the resource-pooling system by means of a
10 plurality of payment receiving modules, and payment data are received and stored by
   means of a payment data store from the risk exposure components for the pooling of
   their risks, and wherein the resource-pooling system triggers a patient dataflow pathway
   by means of critical illness triggers of an event-driven core engine in order to provide
   risk protection for a specific risk exposure component based on received and stored
15 payments from the risk exposure components, in that a first risk contribution of each
   pooled risk exposure components related to a first diagnosis of a critical illness is
   associated with risk exposure of each pooled risk exposure component, and the total risk
   of the pooled risk exposure components is determined by means of the resource-pooling
   system, wherein the critical illness is comprised in a predefined searchable table of
20 critical illnesses, and wherein critical illness losses occur as a consequence of the first
   diagnosis of risk exposure components due to any one of the searchable critical
   illnesses, in that a first risk contribution of each of the pooled risk exposure components
   related to a second and/or successional risk contribution diagnosis of a critical illness is
   associated with risk exposure of each pooled risk exposure component, and the total risk
25 of the pooled risk exposure components is determined by means of the resource-pooling
   system, wherein the critical illness is comprised in the predefined searchable table of
   critical illnesses, and wherein critical illness losses occur as a consequence of the
   second and/or successional diagnosis of risk exposure components due to any one of the
   searchable critical illnesses, in that, in case an occurrence of a first or second or
30 successional critical illness on the patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure
   component is triggered, a corresponding trigger-flag is set by means of the resource-

                                                  10
   pooling system and a parametric draw-down transfer of payments is assigned to this
   corresponding trigger-flag, wherein a loss associated with the first or second or
   successional critical illness is distinctly covered by the resource-pooling system based
   on the respective trigger-flag and based on the received and stored payment parameters
 5 from risk exposure components by the parametric draw-down transfer from the
   resource-pooling system to the risk exposure component, and in that a first parametric
   payment is transferred by the triggering of the occurrence of the critical illness, a second
   parametric payment is transferred by the triggering of an acute treatment phase, and a
   third parametric payment is transferred by the triggering of a recovery phase associated
10 with terminal prognosis data. This embodiment variant has the advantage of further
   providing a parametric draw-down payment. It is clear to a man skilled in the art, that
   the present system can easily be expanded to comprise more than the herein described
   three trigger-levels.
   In one embodiment variant, the receiving and preconditioned storage of payments from
15 risk exposure components for the pooling of their risks is dynamically determined based
   on total risk and/or the likelihood of the risk exposure of the pooled risk exposure
   components. This embodiment variant has, inter alia, the advantage that the operation of
   the resource-pooling system can be dynamically adapted to changing conditions of the
   pooled risk, as, for example, changing demographic conditions or changing age
20 distributions or the like of the pooled risk components. A further advantage is that the
   system needs no manual adaption, when it is operated in different environments, places
   or countries, because the size of the payments of the risk exposure components is
   directly related to the totally pooled risk.
   In another embodiment variant, the number of pooled risk exposure components is
25 dynamically adapted, by means of the resource-pooling system, to a range where non
   covariant occurring risks covered by the resource-pooling system affect only a relatively
   small proportion of the total pooled risk exposure components at a given time. This
   variant has, inter alia, the advantage that the operational and financial stability of the
   system can be improved.

                                                  1
   In a further embodiment variant, the critical illness triggers are dynamically adapted by
   means of an operating module based on time-correlated incidence data for a critical
   illness condition and/or diagnosis or treatment conditions indicating improvements in
   diagnosis or treatment. This variant has, inter alia, the advantage that improvements in
 5 diagnosis or treatment can be dynamically captured by the system and dynamically
   affect the overall operation of the system based on the total risk of the pooled risk
   exposure components.
   In yet another embodiment variant, the first, second and third parametric payment are
   leveled by a predefined total payment sum determined at least based on the risk-related
10 component data and/or on the likelihood of the risk exposure for one or a plurality of
   the pooled risk exposure components based on the risk-related component data, and
   wherein the first parametric payment that is transferred is up to 30% of said total
   payment sum, and the second parametric payment that is transferred is up to 50% of
   said total payment sum, and the third parametric payment that is transferred is up to the
15 left over part given by said total payment sum, minus the actual first parametric
   payment and the second parametric payment. The predefined total payments can e.g. be
   leveled to any appropriate lump sum, such as, for example, $50,000 up to $500,000, or
   any other sum related to the total transferred risk and the amount of the periodic
   payments of the risk exposure component. As embodiment variant of the realization of
20 the system, the critical illness trigger e.g. can comprise multi-dimensional trigger
   channels, wherein each of said trigger-flags is assigned to a first dimension trigger
   channel, comprising a first trigger-level triggering occurrence parameters of the critical
   illness, a second trigger-level triggering acute treatment phase parameters, and a third
   trigger-level triggering recovery phase parameters associated with terminal prognosis
25 data, and each of said trigger-flags is assigned to at least a second or higher dimension
   trigger channel, and comprises additional trigger-stages based on the first, second and/or
   third trigger-level of the first dimension trigger channel. As a further variant, the critical
   illness trigger can also comprise multi-dimensional trigger channels, wherein each of
   said trigger-flags is assigned to a first dimension of a trigger channels comprising a first
30 trigger-level relative to triggering occurrence parameters of the critical illness, a second

                                                    12
   trigger-level relative to triggering acute treatment phase parameters, and a third trigger
   level relative to triggering recovery phase parameters associated with terminal prognosis
   data, and each of said trigger-flags is assigned to a second dimension of trigger channels
   comprising a first trigger-level triggering on a first stage of progression-measuring
 5 parameters of the occurred critical illness, and one or more higher trigger-levels
   triggering on higher stages of progression-measuring parameters of the occurred critical
   illness. This variant, inter alia, has the advantage that the draw-down payments or the
   payments of predefined amounts, which depend on the first, second or third trigger
   level, i.e. the different stages of triggers, allow for an adapted payment of the total sum
10 that is dependent on the stage of the critical illness, as triggered by the system.
   In one embodiment variant, a periodic payment transfer from the risk exposure
   components to the resource pooling system via a plurality of payment receiving
   modules is requested by means of a monitoring module of the resource-pooling system,
   wherein the risk transfer or protection for the risk exposure components is interrupted
15 by the monitoring module when the periodic transfer is no longer detectable by means
   of the monitoring module. As a variant, the request for periodic payment transfer can be
   interrupted automatically or waived by means of the monitoring module, when the
   occurrence of indicators for critical illness is triggered in the patient data flow pathway
   of a risk exposure component. These embodiment variants have, inter alia, the
20 advantage that the system allows for a further automation of the monitoring operation,
   especially of its operation with regard to the pooled resources.
   In a further embodiment variant, an independent verification critical illness trigger of
   the resource pooling system is activated in cases of a triggering of the occurrence of
   indicators for critical illness in the patient data flow pathway of a risk exposure
25 component by means of the critical illness trigger and wherein the independent
   verification critical illness trigger additionally is triggering for the occurrence of
   indicators regarding critical illness in an alternative patient data flow pathway with
   independent measuring parameters from the primary patient data flow pathway in order
   to verify the occurrence of the critical illness at the risk exposure component. As a

                                                13
   variant, the parametric draw-down transfer of payments is only assigned to the
   corresponding trigger-flag, if the occurrence of the critical illness at the risk exposure
   component is verified by the independent verification critical illness trigger. These
   embodiment variants have, inter alia, the advantage that the operational and financial
 5 stability of the system can thus be improved. In addition, the system is rendered less
   vulnerably relative to fraud and counterfeit.
   In addition to the system, as described above, and the corresponding method, the
   present invention also relates to a computer program product that includes computer
   program code means for controlling one or more processors of the control system in
10 such a manner that the control system performs the proposed method; and it relates, in
   particular, to a computer program product that includes a computer-readable medium
   containing therein the computer program code means for the processors.
   Brief Description of the Drawings
   The present invention will be explained in more detail, by way of example, with
15 reference to the drawings in which:
   Figure 1 shows a block diagram illustrating schematically an exemplary parametric,
   event-driven critical illness insurance system based on a resource-pooling system 1
   according to the invention for risk sharing of critical illness risks of a variable number
   of risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 by providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk
20 protection for the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23. The resource-pooling system 1
   comprises an assembly module 5 to process risk- related component data 211, 221, 231
   and to provide the likelihood 212, 222, 232 of said risk exposure for one or a plurality
   of the pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, wherein the risk exposure
   components 21, 22, 23 are connected to the resource-pooling system 1 by means of a
25 plurality of payment receiving modules 4 that are configured to receive and store 6
   payments 214, 224, 234 from the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 for the pooling
   of their risks, and wherein the resource-pooling system 1 comprises an event-driven

                                                   14
   core engine 3 that comprises critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33, which trigger a patient
   data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 to provide risk protection for a specific risk exposure
   component 21, 22, 23. The patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 is monitored by the
   resource-pooling system 1 in that patient measuring parameters of the patient data flow
 5 pathway 213, 223, 233 are captured, wherein the patient data flow pathway 213, 223,
   233 is dynamically monitored and triggered for patient measuring parameters of the
   patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233, which is transmitted from associated
   measuring systems.
   Figure 2 shows a block diagram illustrating schematically exemplary trigger stages of
10 the resource-pooling system, wherein reference number 1001 is assigned to the
   triggering of the critical illness, for example the malignant cancer. Reference number
    1002 designates the triggering of the treatment phase, such as, for example, surgery,
   chemotherapy, radiotherapy or medications of drugs etc. Reference number 1003
   designates the triggering of the recovery phase or the triggering of the terminal illness
15 and/or the aftercare phase. Finally, reference number 1004 designates the triggering of
   additional support services. Reference number 1004 gives an example of additional
   trigger stages to the critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 of the core engine module 3.
   Figure 3 shows a diagram illustrating schematically an exemplary payment drawdown
   as it can be provided by the resource pooling system 1 in case of triggering critical
20 illness at a risk exposure component.
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram illustrating schematically an exemplary
   parameterization of the risk exposure for critical illness of the risk exposure components
   21, 22, 23. The reference numeral 520 gives the total transferred risk of a specific risk
   exposure component 21, 22, 23 comprising at least a first risk contribution 511, 521,
25 531 for a first occurrence of a critical illness. Further, it comprises a second risk
   contribution 512, 522, 532 related to a second occurrence of a critical illness. It also can
   comprise third 513, 523, 533 and subsequent 51i, 52i, 53i risk contributions thereafter;
   i.e., "i" herein denotes the i-th risk distribution.

                                                   15
   Detailed Description of the Preferred Embodiments
   Figure 1 illustrates, schematically, an architecture for a possible implementation of an
   embodiment of the parametric, event-driven resource-pooling system 1 for risk sharing
 5 of critical illness risks. In Figure 1, reference numeral 1 refers to the resource-pooling
   system for risk sharing of the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23... The resource
   pooling system 1 provides a dynamic self-sufficient risk protection and corresponding
   risk protection structure for a variable number of risk exposure components 21, 22, 23,
   i.e.; persons or individuals, by its means. The system 1 includes at least one processor
10 and associated memory modules. The system 1 can also include one or more display
   units and operating elements, such as a keyboard, and/or graphical pointing devices as a
   computer mouse. The resource-pooling system 1 is a technical device comprising
   electronic means that can be used by service providers in the field of risk transfer or
   insurance technology for risk transfer related to critical illness risks (CI). The invention
15 seeks to technically capture, handle and automate complex related operations of the
   insurance industry. An other aspect is to synchronize and adjust such operations based
   on technical means. In contrast to the standard approach, the resource-pooling system
   also achieves an reproducible operations with the desired technical, repetitious accuracy
   because it is completely based on technical means, process flow and process
20 control/operation.
   The resource-pooling system 1 comprises an assembly module 5 to process risk related
   component data 211, 221, 231 and to provide the likelihood 212, 222, 232 of said risk
   exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, etc.
   based on the risk-related component data 211, 221, 231 .The resource-pooling system 1
25 can be implemented as a technical platform, which is developed and implemented to
   provide critical illness risk transfer through a plurality of (but at least one) payment
   receiving module 4. The risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, etc. are connected to the
   resource-pooling system 1 by means of the plurality of payment receiving modules 4

                                                   16
   configured to receive and store payments 214, 224, 234 from the risk exposure
   components 21, 22, 23,.... for the pooling of their risks in a payment data store 6. The
   storage of the payments can be implemented by transferring and storing component
   specific payment parameters. The payment amount can be dynamically determined by
 5 means of the resource-pooling system 1 based on total risk of the overall pooled risk
   exposure components 21, 22, 23. For the pooling of the resources, the resource-pooling
   system 1 can comprise a monitoring module 8 requesting a periodic payment transfer
   from the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, etc. to the resource-pooling system 1 by
   means of the plurality of payment receiving modules 2, wherein the risk protection for
10 the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23,.... is interrupted by the monitoring module 8,
   when the periodic transfer is no longer detectable by means of the monitoring module 8.
   In one embodiment variant, the request for periodic payment transfers is automatically
   interrupted or waived by means of the monitoring module 8, if the occurrence 1001 of
   indicators for critical illness 71, 72, 73 is triggered 31 in the patient data flow pathway
15 of a risk exposure component 21, 22, 23,...
   As also illustrated schematically in Figure 1, the resource-pooling system 1 includes a
   data storing module for capturing the risk-related component data and multiple
   functional modules; e.g., namely the payment receiving modules 4, the core engine 3
   with the triggers 31, 32, 33, the assembly module 5 or the operating module 30. The
20 functional modules can be implemented at least partly as programmed software modules
   stored on a computer readable medium, connected as fixed or removable to the
   processor(s) of system 1 or to associated automated systems. One skilled in the art
   understands, however, that the functional modules can also be implemented fully by
   means of hardware components, units and/or appropriately implemented modules. As
25 illustrated in Figure 1, system 1 can be connected via a network, such as a
   telecommunications network, to the payment receiving module 4. The network can
   include a wired or wireless network; e.g., the Internet, a GSM network (Global System
   for Mobile Communication), an UMTS network (Universal Mobile
   Telecommunications System) and/or a WLAN (Wireless Local Region Network),
30 and/or dedicated point-to-point communication lines. In any case, the technical

                                                 17
   electronic money schemes for the present system comprises adequate technical,
   organizational and procedural safeguard means in order to prevent, contain and detect
   threats to the security of the scheme, particularly the threat of counterfeits. The
   resource-pooling system 1 comprises further all necessary technical means for
 5 electronic money transfer and association e.g. initiated by one or more associated
   payment receiving modules 4 over an electronic network. The monetary parameters can
   be based on all possible electronic and transferable means as e.g. e-currency, e-money,
   electronic cash, electronic currency, digital money, digital cash, digital currency, or
   cyber currency etc., which can only be exchanged electronically. The payment data
10 store 6 provides the means for associating and storing monetary parameters associated
   with a single of the pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23. The present invention
   can involve the use of the mentioned network, such as e.g. computer networks or
   telecommunication networks, and/or the Internet and digital stored value systems.
   Electronic funds transfer (EFT), direct deposit, digital gold currency and virtual
15 currency are further examples of electronic money. Also, the transfer can involve
   technologies, such as financial cryptography and technologies enabling the same. For
   the transaction of the monetary parameters, it is preferable that hard electronic currency
   is used without the technical possibilities for disputing or reversing any charges. The
   resource-pooling system 1 supports, for example, non-reversible transactions. The
20 advantage of this arrangement is that the operating costs of the electronic currency
   system are greatly reduced by not having to resolve payment disputes. However, this
   way, it is also possible for electronic currency transactions to clear instantly, making the
   funds available immediately to the system 1. This means that using hard electronic
   currency is more akin to a cash transaction. However, also conceivable is the use of soft
25 electronic currency, such as currency that allows for the reversal of payments, for
   example having a "clearing time" of 72 hours, or the like. The way of the electronic
   monetary parameter exchange applies to all connected systems and modules related to
   the resource-pooling system 1 of the present invention, such as e.g. the payment
   receiving module 4. The monetary parameter transfer to the resource-pooling system 1
30 can be initiated by a payment-receiving module 4 or on request of the resource-pooling
   system 1.

                                                   18
   The resource-pooling system 1 comprises an event-driven core engine 3 comprising
   critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 for triggering component-specific measuring
   parameters in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 of the assigned risk exposure
   components 21, 22, 23, .... The patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 can e.g. be
 5 monitored by the resource-pooling system 1, capturing patient-related measuring
   parameters of the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 at least periodically and/or
   within predefined time periods. The patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 can, for
   example, also be dynamically monitored by the resource-pooling system 1, by
   triggering patient-measuring parameters of the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233
10 transmitted from associated measuring systems. Triggering the patient data flow
   pathway 213, 223, 233, which comprises dynamically recorded measuring parameters
   of the concerned risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 ....       , the system 1 is able to detect
   the occurrence of a critical illness and dynamically monitor the different stages during
   the progress of the critical illness in order to provide appropriately adapted and gradated
15 risk protection for a specific risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, .... Such a risk
   protection structure is based on received and stored payments 214, 224, 234 from the
   related risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, .... and/or related to the total risk of the
   resource-pooling system     ,1 based on the overall transferred critical illness risks of all
   pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ....
20 Figure 2 shows a block diagram with possible trigger stages, wherein reference number
    1001 is assigned to the triggering of the critical illness, for example cancer; reference
   number 1002 designates the triggering of the treatment phase, such as, for example,
   surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy or the administration of medication, etc.; reference
   number 1003 designates the triggering of the recovery phase or the triggering of the
25 terminal illness and/or the aftercare phase.; and reference number 1004 designates the
   triggering of additional support services. Reference number 1004 gives an example of
   additional trigger stages to the critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 of the core engine
   module 3. The critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 can e.g. comprise a trigger 31 for
   triggering the occurrence 1001 of the measuring parameters, indicating a heart attack
30 and/or cancer and/or a stroke and/or coronary artery by-pass surgery in the patient data

                                                   19
   flow pathway 213, 223, 233. Further, the critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 can comprise
   a trigger 31 for triggering the occurrence 1001 of measuring parameters indicating
   Alzheimer's disease, blindness, deafness, kidney failure, major organ transplant,
   multiple sclerosis, HIV/AIDS contracted by blood transfusion or during an operation,
 5 Parkinson's disease, paralysis of limb, terminal illness in the patient data flow pathway
   213, 223, 233. The majority of cases of occurrences of critical illness are typically
   related to heart attack, stroke and cancer, as can be expected. The average age of
   individual 21, 22, 23, at which a critical illness can be detected in the patient data flow
   pathway 213, 223, 233, is  41 years; however, this depends on the development of
10 diagnostic and other medical means. These statistics are common for all countries where
   statistics are maintained. However, it is of great concern to observe the increasing
   number of critical illness occurrences - particularly regarding cancer cases. In most
   countries, this observed increase is more than 50%, and in some even 80%. Earlier
   diagnosis due to better diagnostic equipment may be partially responsible for this.
15 Therefore, to ensure proper operation of the resource-pooling system 1, the definitions
   of the stored trigger parameters 71, 72, 73 of critical illness in the trigger table 7 can be
   dynamically adapted based on a monitoring of changing risks in the risk exposure
   components 21, 22, 23. In particular, the trigger parameters 71, 72, 73 can be region
   specific, country-specific and/or specific of the total pooled risk, adapted or changed.
20 New critical illnesses 71, 72, 73 can be added, while others can be deleted from the
   triggerable list of critical illnesses by the resource-pooling system, owing to better
   treatments or other changed environmental conditions. In one embodied variant, the
   critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 can be dynamically adapted by means of an operating
   module 30, based on time-correlated incidence dates of a critical illness condition
25 and/or diagnosis or treatment conditions indicating improvements in diagnosis or
   treatment.
   In addition to the adaptation of the triggers 31, 32, 33, the amount of requested
   payments from the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 can be accordingly adjusted by
   the resource-pooling system 1.Therefore the receiving and preconditioned storage 6 of
30 payments 214, 224, 234 from risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ... for the pooling of

                                                  20
   their risks can be determined dynamically, based on total risk 50 and/or the likelihood
   of the risk exposure of the pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ... To improve
   operational and functional security of the resource- pooling system 1 even further, the
   number of pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ... can be dynamically adapted
 5 by means of the resource-pooling system 1 to a range where non-covariant, occurring
   risks covered by the resource-pooling system 1 affect only a relatively small proportion
   of the totally pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ... at a given time.
   The total risk 50 of the pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ... comprises a first
   risk contribution 511, 521, 531 of each pooled risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, ...
10 that is associated with risk exposure in relation to a first diagnosis of a critical illness.
   The triggering parameters 71, 72, 73 of the covered critical illnesses is comprised and
   stored in a predefined searchable table 7, such as e.g. an appropriately structured hash
   table, of critical illnesses 71, 72, 73, respectively critical illness parameters 71, 72, 73.
   The critical illness losses occur as a consequence to the first diagnosis of risk exposure
15 components 21, 22, 23, ... with regard to one of the searchable critical illnesses; i.e., the
   possible need of a risk exposure components 21, 22, 23, ... to be covered by the pooled
   resources of the resource-pooling system 1 is linked to the risk of the occurrence of a
   critical illness requiring complex medical treatment and handling.
   The total risk 50 of the pooled risk exposure components 21, 22, 23,... comprises at
20 least a second risk contribution 512,522,523 and/or third or additional successional risk
   contributions 513/521/.. .51i/52i/53i; i.e., up to the i-th risk contribution, associated with
   risk exposure in relation to a second and/or successional critical illness(es). The critical
   illnesses 71, 72, 73 for triggering the second risk contribution 512, 522, 523 and/or third
   or additional successional risk contributions 513/521/ ... 51i/52i/53i are the same as for
25 the first risk contribution and comprised in the predefined searchable table 7 of critical
   illness parameters 71, 72, 73.
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram with an exemplary parameterization of the risk
   exposure for critical illness of the risk exposure components 21, 22, 23. The reference

                                                  21
   numeral 520 gives the total transferred risk of a specific risk exposure component 21,
   22, 23 comprising at least a first risk contribution 511, 521, 531 for a first occurrence of
   a critical illness. Further comprised is a second risk contribution 512, 522, 532 related to
   a second occurrence of a critical illness. Also comprised can be a third 513, 523, 533
 5 and subsequent 5 1i,52i,53i risk contribution; i.e., "i" denotes the i-th risk distribution.
   In case of triggering an occurrence of a first or second or successional critical illness
   71,72,73 on the patient dataflow pathway 213,223,233 of a risk exposure component 21,
   22, 23, i.e. if a triggering of an occurrence of a first or second or successional critical
   illness 71, 72, 73 goes into effect in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233, a
10 corresponding trigger-flag is set by means of the resource-pooling system 1 and a
   parametric draw-down or predefined transfer of payments is assigned to this
   corresponding trigger-flag. A loss associated with the first or second or successional
   critical illness(es) 71, 72, 73 is distinctly covered by the resource-pooling system 1,
   based on the respective trigger-flag and based on the received and stored payment
15 parameters 214, 224, 234 from risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 by the parametric
   draw-down or predefined transfer from the resource-pooling system 1 to the risk
   exposure component 21, 22, 23,etc. The payment receiving module 4 can, as an input
   device, comprise one or more data processing units, displays and other operating
   elements, such as a keyboard and/or a computer mouse or another pointing device. As
20 mentioned previously, the receiving operation of the payments with regard to the risk
   exposure components 21, 22, 23 is monitored based on the stored component-specific
   payment parameters in the payment data store 6. The different components of the
   resource-pooling system 1, such as e.g. the payment receiving module 4 with the core
   engine 3 and the assembly module 5 can be connected via a network for signal
25 transmission. The network can comprise, e.g., a telecommunications network, such as a
   wired or wireless network, e.g., the internet, a GSM network (Global System for Mobile
   Communications), an UMTS network (Universal Mobile Telecommunications System)
   and/or a WLAN (Wireless Local Area Network), a Public Switched Telephone Network
   (PSTN) and/or dedicated point-to-point communication lines. The payment receiving
30 module 4 and/or core engine 3 and the assembly module 5 can also comprise a plurality

                                                 22
   of interfaces for connecting to the telecommunications network adhering to the
   transmission standard or protocol. As an embodied variant, the payment receiving
   module 4 can also be implemented as an external device relative to the resource-pooling
   system 1, which provides the risk transfer service via the network for signal
 5 transmission, e.g. by a secured data transmission line.
   A first parametric payment 211 is transferred by triggering the occurrence 1001 of the
   critical illness 71, 72, 73 by means of the critical illness trigger 31 of the core engine 3,
   thus triggering the measuring parameters of the specific risk exposure component 21,
   22, 23 in the related patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233.The core engine 3,
10 analogously to the resource-pooling system 1 and the other components of the system,
   is implemented based on underlying electronic components, steering codes and
   interacting interface devices, such as e.g. appropriate signal generation modules or other
   modules interacting electronically by means of appropriate signal generation between
   the different modules, devices, or the like. For example, the first parametric payment
15 can be transferred by triggering 31 the occurrence 1001 of measuring parameters
   indicating the critical illness 71, 72, 73 of malignant cancer and/or smaller incidence of
   ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and/or early prostate carcinoma.
   A second parametric payment 212 is transferred by triggering measuring parameters in
   the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 indicating the initiation of an acute
20 treatment phase 1002 by means of the critical illness trigger 32 of the core engine 3. For
   example, acute treatment phase parameters 1002 indicating surgery and/or
   chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and/or reconstructive surgery can be triggered in
   patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 by means of a critical illness trigger 32 of the
   core engine 3. For example, the second parametric payment can only be transferred by
25 triggering 32 acute treatment phase parameters 1002, indicating surgery and/or
   chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and/or reconstructive surgery. Finally a third
   parametric payment 213 is transferred by triggering measuring parameters in the patient
   data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 indicating the initiation of a recovery phase 1003
   linked to terminal prognosis data by means of the critical illness trigger 33 by the core

                                                 23
   engine 3. For example, recovery phase parameters 1003 linked to or associated with
   terminal prognosis data are triggered in patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 by
   means of a critical illness trigger 33 by the core engine 3. As a variant, the third
   parametric payment is only transferrable by triggering 33 recovery phase parameters
 5 and/or terminal prognosis parameters 1003.
   Therefore, if triggering 1001 takes effect, an occurrence of a first critical illness 71, 72,
   73 in the patient dataflow pathway 213, 223, 233 of a risk exposure component 21, 22,
   23, any associated loss is covered by the resource-pooling system 1 based on the
   received and stored payments 214, 224, 234 from risk exposure components 21, 22, 23
10 by transferring a parametric diagnosis payment 2001 from the resource-pooling system
    I to the risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc.; if triggering 1002 takes effect, an
   occurrence of an acute treatment phase in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233
   of an associated loss is covered by the resource-pooling system 1 based on the received
   and stored payments 214, 224, 234 from risk exposure components 21, 22, 23 by
15 transferring a parametric treatment phase payment 2002 from the resource-pooling
   system I to the risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc.; and if triggering 1003 takes
   effect, an occurrence of a recovery phase linked to terminal prognosis data in the patient
   data flow pathway and associated loss is covered by the resource-pooling system based
   on the received and stored payments 214, 224, 234 from risk exposure components 21,
20 22, 23 by transferring a parametric recovery phase payment 2003 from the resource
   pooling system I to the risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc. The first, second and
   third parametric payments can, for example, be leveled by a predefined total payment
   sum determined at least based on the risk-related component data 211, 221, 231 and/or
   the likelihood of the risk exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk exposure
25 components 21, 22, 23, etc., based on the risk-related component data 211, 221, 231,
   wherein the first parametric payment is transferred up to 30% of said total payment
   sum, and the second parametric payment is transferred up to 50% of said total payment
   sum, and the third parametric payment is transferred up to the residual part given by
   said total payment sum minus the actual first parametric payment and the second
30 parametric payment. Such an exemplary payment draw-down as it can be provided by

                                                  24
   the resource-pooling system 1 in the event of a triggering of a critical illness at a risk
   exposure component is shown in the diagram of Figure 3.
   As a further technical variant, the critical illness triggers 31, 32, 33 comprise multi
   dimensional trigger channels. Each of said trigger-flags is assigned to a first dimension
 5 trigger channel comprising a first trigger-level triggering 31 on occurrence parameter
    1001 of the critical illness 71, 72, 73, a second trigger-level triggering 32 on acute
   treatment phase parameter 1002, and a third trigger-level triggering 33 on recovery
   phase parameter 1003 linked to or associated with terminal prognosis data; and each of
   said trigger-flags is assigned to at least a second or higher dimension trigger channel
10 and comprises additional trigger-stages based on the first, second and/or third trigger
   levels of the first dimension trigger channel. The critical illness trigger 31, 32, 33 can
   e.g. comprise multi-dimensional trigger channels, wherein each of said trigger-flags is
   assigned to a first dimension of a trigger channel comprising a first trigger-level
   triggering 31 on occurrence parameter 1001 of the critical illness 71, 72, 73, a second
15 trigger-level triggering 32 on acute treatment phase parameter 1002, and a third trigger
   level triggering 33 on recovery phase parameter 1003 linked to terminal prognosis data,
   and each of said trigger-flags is assigned to a second dimension of a trigger channel
   comprising a first trigger-level triggering 31 on a first stage of progression-measuring
   parameters of the occurrence 1001 with regard to critical illness 71, 72, 73, and one or
20 more higher trigger-levels triggering 32, 33,.... in higher stages of progression
   measuring parameters of the occurred critical illness 71, 72, 73.
   In addition, the resource-pooling system 1 can be realized such that it transfers critical
   illness data in the patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 of the related risk exposure
   component 21, 22, 23, etc., after triggering the occurrence of a critical illness 71, 72, 73,
25 to an automated employee assistance system (EAP: Employee Assistance Program)
   providing automated support to the risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc.
   Analogously, by triggering the occurrence of a critical illness 71, 72, 73 by means of the
   critical illness trigger 31 by the core engine 3, critical illness data in the patient data
   flow pathway 213, 223, 233 of the related risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc. can

                                                   25
   be transferred to an alert system of an Change Advisory Board (CAB) to activate
   automated or at least semi-automated CAB actions.
   Finally, in a further specified embodied variant, an independent verification critical
   illness trigger of the resource-pooling system 1 can be activated in the event of a
 5 triggering of the occurrence 1001 of indicators for critical illness 71, 72, 73 in the
   patient data flow pathway 213, 223, 233 of a risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc.
   by means of the critical illness trigger 31, and wherein the independent verification
   critical illness trigger additionally is triggering with regard to the occurrence 1001
   indicators for critical illness 71, 72, 73 in an alternative patient data flow pathway 215,
10 225, 235 with independent measuring parameters from the primary patient data flow
   pathway 213, 223, 233 to verify the occurrence 1001 of the critical illness 71, 72, 73 at
   the risk exposure component 21, 22, 23, etc, As a variant, the parametric draw-down or
   predefined transfer of payments is only assigned to the corresponding trigger-flag, if the
   occurrence 1001 of the critical illness 71, 72, 73 at the risk exposure component 21, 22,
15 23, etc. is verified by the independent verification critical illness trigger.

                                                   26
   Claims
    1. An event-driven critical illness insurance system based on a resource-pooling system
   (1) for risk sharing of critical illness risks of a variable number of risk exposure
   components (21, 22, 23, ...) by providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk protection for
 5 the risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ...) by means of the resource-pooling system
   (1), wherein the risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ) are connected to the
   resource-pooling system (1) by means of a plurality of payment-receiving modules (4)
   configured to receive and store (6) payments (214, 224, 234) from the risk exposure
   components (21, 22, 23, ...) for the pooling of their risks and resources, and wherein the
10 resource-pooling system (1) comprises an event-driven core engine (3) comprising
   critical illness triggers (31, 32, 33) triggering in a patient dataflow pathway (213, 223,
   233) to provide risk protection for a specific risk exposure component (21, 22, 23, ...)
   based on received and stored payments (214, 224, 234) of the risk exposure components
   (21, 22, 23, ...), characterized
15 in that the total risk (50) of the pooled risk exposure components (21, 22, 23,     ... )
   comprises a first risk contribution (511, 521, 531) of each pooled risk exposure
   components (21, 22, 23,...) associated to risk exposure in relation to a first diagnosis of
   a critical illness, wherein the critical illness (71, 72, 73) is comprised in a predefined
   searchable table (7) of critical illnesses (71, 72, 73) and wherein critical illness losses
20 occur as a consequence to the first diagnosis of risk exposure components (21, 22, 23,
    ... ) with one of the searchable critical illnesses,
   in that the resource-pooling system (1) comprises an assembly module (5) to process
   risk-related component data (211, 221, 231) and to provide the likelihood (212, 222,
   232) of said risk exposure for one or a plurality of the pooled risk exposure components
25 (21, 22, 23, ...) based on the risk-related component data (211, and wherein the
   receiving and preconditioned storage (6) of payments (214, 224, 234) from risk
   exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ) for the pooling of their risks is dynamically
   determinable based on total risk (50) and/or the likelihood of the risk exposure of the
   pooled risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ), and
30 in that, in case an occurrence of a first or second or successional critical illness (71, 72,
   73) on the patient data flow pathway (213, 223, 233) of a risk exposure component (21,

                                                  27
   22, 23, ...) is triggered, a corresponding trigger-flag is set by means of the resource
   pooling system (1) and a parametric transfer of payments is assigned to this
   corresponding trigger-flag, wherein a loss associated with the first or second or
   successional critical illness (71, 72, 73) is distinctly covered by the resource-pooling
 5 system (1) based on the respective trigger-flag and based on the received and stored
   payment parameters from risk exposure components by means of the parametric transfer
   from the resource-pooling system (1) to the risk exposure component (21, 22, 23, ...).
   2. The system (1) according to claim 1, wherein the critical illness triggers (31, 32, 33)
   comprise a trigger (31) for triggering the occurrence of measuring parameters indicating
10 a heart attack and/or cancer and/or a stroke and/or coronary artery by-pass surgery in the
   patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233).
   3. The system (1) according to claim 2, wherein the critical illness triggers (31, 32, 33)
   further comprise a trigger (31) for triggering the occurrence of measuring parameters
   indicating Alzheimer's disease, blindness, deafness, kidney failure, major organ
15 transplant, multiple sclerosis, HIV/AIDS contracted by blood transfusion or during an
   operation, Parkinson's disease, paralysis of limb, terminal illness in the patient dataflow
   pathway (213, 223, 233).
   4. The system (1) according to one of the claims 1 to 3, wherein the number of pooled
   risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ...) is dynamically adaptable by means of the
20 resource-pooling system (1) to a range where non-covariant occurring risks covered by
   the resource-pooling system (1) affect only a relatively small proportion of the totally
   pooled risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ...) at a given time.
   5. The system (1) according to one of the claims 1 to 4, wherein the critical illness
   triggers (31, 32, 33) are dynamically adapted by means of an operating module (30)
25 based on time-correlated incidence data for a critical illness conditions and/or diagnosis
   or treatment conditions indicating improvements in diagnosis or treatment.
   6. The system (1) according to one of the claims 1 to 5, wherein upon each triggering
   (31) of an occurrence (1001) of measuring parameters indicating a critical illness (71,
   72, 73), a total parametric payment is allocated with the triggering, wherein a first
30 portion of the totally allocated payment is transferrable upon triggering (31) the
   occurrence (1001).

                                                28
   7. The system (1) according to one of the claims 1 to 6, wherein the critical illness
   triggers further comprise triggers triggering (32) acute treatment phase parameters
   (1002) indicating surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and/or
   reconstructive surgery in the patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233).
 5 8. The system (1) according to claim 7, wherein a second portion of the allocated total
   parametric payment is transferrable upon triggering (32) of acute treatment phase
   parameters (1002) indicating surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and/or
   reconstructive surgery.
   9. The system (1) according to one of the claims 1 to 8, wherein the critical illness
10 triggers (31,32,33) further comprise triggers (33) triggering recovery phase parameters
   (1003) associated with or linked to terminal prognosis data in patient dataflow pathway
   (213, 223, 233).
    10. The system (1) according to claim 9, wherein a third portion of the allocated total
   parametric payment is transferrable upon triggering (33) of a recovery phase parameter
15 and/or terminal prognosis parameter (1003).
    11. The method according to one of the claims 6 to 10, wherein the first and second and
   third transferred portion of payment are generatable to sum up to the allocated total
   parametric payment.
    12. The system (1) according to one of the claims 6 to 11, wherein the allocated total
20 parametric payment is determined at least based on the risk-related components data
   (211, 221, 231) and/or on the likelihood of the risk exposure for one or a plurality of the
   pooled risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ...) based on the risk related components
   data 211, 221, 231 and wherein the first portion is transferred up to 30% of said total
   payments sum and the second portion is transferred up to 50% of said total payments
25 sum and the third portion is transferred up to the residual part given by said total
   payment sum minus the actual portion and the second portion.
    13. The system (1) according to one of the claims 1 to 12, wherein the resource-pooling
   system (1) comprises a monitoring module (8) requesting a periodic payment transfer
   from the risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ...) to the resource-pooling system (1)
30 by means of a plurality of payment receiving modules (2), wherein the risk protection
   for the risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ...) is interrupted by the monitoring

                                                  29
   module (8) when the periodic transfer is no longer detectable by means of the
   monitoring module (8).
    14. The system (1) according to claim 13, wherein the request for periodic payment
   transfer is interrupted or waived by the monitoring module (8) when the occurrence
 5 (1001) of indicators for critical illness (71,72,73) is triggered (31) in a patient data flow
   pathway of a risk exposure component (21, 22, 23, ... ).
    15. The system (1) according to one of the claims 1 to 14, wherein the resource-pooling
   system (1) comprises an independent verification critical illness trigger, which is
   activated in the event of a triggering of the occurrence (1001) of indicators for critical
10 illness in the patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233) of a risk exposure component
   (21, 22, 23, ...) by means of the critical illness trigger (31) and which additionally, is a
   triggering for the occurrence (1001) of indicators for critical illness (71, 72, 73) in an
   alternative patient dataflow pathway (215, 225, 235) with independent measuring
   parameters from the primary patient data flow pathway (213, 223, 233) to verify the
15 occurrence of the critical illness (71,72,73) at the risk exposure component (21, 22, 23,
    16. The system (1) according to claim 15, wherein the parametric transfer of payments
   is only assigned to the corresponding trigger-flag, if the occurrence (1001) of the critical
   illness (71,72,73) at the risk exposure component (21, 22, 23, ...) is verified by the
20 independent verification critical illness trigger.
    17. The system (1) according to one of the claims 1 to 16, wherein critical illness data of
   the patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233) of the risk exposure component (21, 22,
   23, ...) are transferred to an automated employee assistance system (EAP: Employee
   Assistance Program) providing automated support to the risk exposure component (21,
25 22, 23, ... ).
    18. The system (1) according to one of the claims I to 17, wherein the patient dataflow
   pathway (213, 223, 233) is monitored by the resource-pooling system (1) by capturing
   patient measuring parameter of the patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233) at least
   periodically and/or within predefined time frames.
30  19. The system (1) according to one of the claims I to 18, wherein the patient dataflow
   pathway (213, 223, 233) is dynamically monitored by the resource-pooling system (1)

                                                  30
   by a triggering of patient measuring parameters of the patient dataflow pathway (213,
   223, 233) transmitted from associated measuring systems.
   20. An method for risk sharing of critical illness risks of a variable number of risk
   exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ) by providing a dynamic self-sufficient risk
 5 protection for the risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ) by means of the resource
   pooling system (1), wherein the risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ) are
   connected to the resource-pooling system (1) by means of a plurality of payment
   receiving modules (4) and payment data (214, 224, 234) are received and stored by
   means of a payment data store (6) from the risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ...)
10 for the pooling of their risks, and wherein the resource-pooling system (1) triggers a
   patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233) by means of critical illness triggers (31, 32,
   33) of an event-driven core engine (3) in order to provide risk protection for a specific
   risk exposure component (21, 22, 23, ... ) based on received and stored payments (214,
   224, 234) from the risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ), characterized
15 in that a first risk contribution (511, 521, 531) of each pooled risk exposure components
   (21, 22, 23,...) related to a first diagnosis of a critical illness (71,72,73) is associated
   with risk exposure of each pooled risk exposure components (21, 22, 23,...) and the
   total risk (50) of the pooled risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ) by means of the
   resource-pooling system (1), wherein the critical illness (71, 72, 73) is comprised in a
20 predefined searchable table (7) of critical illnesses (71, 72, 73) and wherein critical
   illness losses occur as a consequence to the first diagnosis of risk exposure components
   (21, 22, 23, ... ) with one of the searchable critical illnesses,
   in that risk-related component data (211, 221, 231) are processed by an assembly
   module (5) of the resource-pooling system (1) and the likelihood (212, 222, 232) of said
25 risk exposure is provided by means of the assembly module (5) for one or a plurality of
   the pooled risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ) based on the risk-related
   component data (211, 221, 231), and wherein the receiving and preconditioned storage
   (6) of payments (214, 224, 234) from risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ) for the
   pooling of their risks is dynamically determined based on total risk (50) and/or the
30 likelihood of the risk exposure of the pooled risk exposure components (21, 22, 23,
   and

                                                   31
   in that, in case triggering of an occurrence of a first or second or successional critical
   illness (71, 72, 73) on the patient data flow pathway (213, 223, 233) of a risk exposure
   component (21, 22, 23, ... ), a corresponding trigger-flag is set by means of the
   resource-pooling system (1) and a parametric transfer of payments is assigned to this
 5 corresponding trigger-flag, wherein a loss associated to the first or second or
   successional critical illness (71, 72, 73) is distinctly covered by the resource-pooling
   system (1) based on the respective trigger-flag and based on the received and stored
   payment parameters from risk exposure components by means of the parametric transfer
   from the resource-pooling system (1) to the risk exposure component (21, 22, 23, ... ).
10 21. The method according to claim 20, wherein the occurrence (1001) of measuring
   parameters indicating a heart attack and/or cancer and/or a stroke and/or coronary artery
   by-pass surgery are triggered in the patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233) by means
   of a critical illness trigger (31) of the core engine (3).
   22. The method according to claim 20, wherein the occurrence (1001) of measuring
15 parameters indicating Alzheimer's disease, blindness, deafness, kidney failure, major
   organ transplant, multiple sclerosis, HIV/AIDS contracted by blood transfusion or
   during an operation, Parkinson's disease, paralysis of limb, terminal illness are triggered
   in the patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233) by means of a critical illness trigger
   (31) of the core engine (3).
20 23. The method according to one of the claims 20 to 22, wherein the number of pooled
   risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ) is dynamically adapted by means of the
   resource-pooling system (1) to a range where non-covariant occurring risks covered by
   the resource-pooling system (1) affect only a relatively small proportion of the totally
   pooled risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ) at a given time.
25 24. The method according to one of the claims 20 to 23, wherein the critical illness
   triggers (31, 32, 33) are dynamically adapted by means of an operating module (30)
   based on time-correlated incidence data for critical illness conditions and/or diagnosis
   or treatment conditions indicating improvements in diagnosis or treatment.
   25. The method according to one of the claims 20 to 24, wherein upon each triggering
30 (31) of an occurrence (1001) of measuring parameters indicating a critical illness (71,
   72, 73), a total parametric payment is allocated with the triggering, wherein a first

                                                  32
   portion of the totally allocated payment is transferred upon triggering (31) the
   occurrence (1001).
   26. The method according to claim 25, wherein acute treatment phase parameters (1002)
   indicating surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and/or reconstructive
 5 surgery is/are triggered in the patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233) by means of a
   critical illness trigger (32) of the core engine (3).
   27. The method according to claim 26, wherein a second portion of the allocated total
   parametric payment is transferred upon triggering (32) of acute treatment phase
   parameters (1002) indicating surgery and/or chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy and/or
10 reconstructive surgery.
   28. The method according to one of the claims 26 to 28, wherein recovery phase
   parameters (1003) linked to terminal prognosis data are triggered in a patient data flow
   pathway (213, 223, 233) by means of a critical illness trigger (33) of the core engine (3).
   29. The method according to claim 28, wherein a third portion of the allocated total
15 parametric payment is transferred upon triggering (33) of a recovery phase parameter
   and/or terminal prognosis parameter (1003).
   30. The method according to one of the claims 25 to 29, wherein the first and second
   and third transferred portion of payment are generated to sum up to the allocated total
   parametric payment.
20 31. The method according to one of the claims 25 to 30, wherein the allocated total
   parametric payment is determined at least based on the risk-related component data
   (211, 221, 231) and/or on the likelihood of the risk exposure for one or a plurality of the
   pooled risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ...) based on the risk-related component
   data 211, 221, 231), and wherein the first portion of payment is transferred up to 30% of
25 said allocated total parametric payment and the second portion is transferred up to 50%
   of said allocated total parametric payment and the third portion is transferred up to the
   residual part given by said total payment sum minus the actual first portion and the
   second portion.
   32. The method according to one of the claims 20 to 30, wherein the periodic payment
30 transfer from the risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ...) to the resource-pooling
   system (1) via a plurality of payment receiving modules (2) is requested by means of a

                                                   33
   monitoring module (8) of the resource-pooling system (1), wherein the risk transfer or
   protection for the risk exposure components (21, 22, 23, ... ) is interrupted by the
   monitoring module (8) when the periodic transfer is no longer detectable by means of
   the monitoring module (8).
 5 33. The method according to claim 32, wherein the request for periodic payment
   transfer is interrupted or waived by means of the monitoring module (8) when the
   occurrence (1001) of indicators for critical illness (71,72,73) is triggered (31) on patient
   dataflow pathway of a risk exposure component (21, 22, 23, ... ).
   34. The method according to one of the claims 20 to 33, wherein an independent
10 verification critical illness trigger of the resource-pooling system (1) is activated in case
   of triggering the occurrence (1001) of indicators for critical illness (71, 72, 73) in a
   patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233) of a risk exposure component (21, 22, 23, ... )
   by means of the critical illness trigger (31) and wherein the independent verification
   critical illness trigger is, additionally a triggering for an occurrence (1001) of indicators
15 of critical illness (71, 72, 73) in an alternative patient data flow pathway (215, 225, 235)
   with independent measuring parameters from the primary patient dataflow pathway
   (213, 223, 233) to verify the occurrence (1001) of the critical illness (71,72,73) at the
   risk exposure component (21, 22, 23, ... ).
   35. The method according to claim 34, wherein the parametric transfer of payments is
20 only assigned to the corresponding trigger-flag, if the occurrence (1001) of the critical
   illness (71,72,73) at the risk exposure component (21, 22, 23, ... ) is verified by the
   independent verification critical illness trigger.
   36. The method according to one of the claims 20 to 35, wherein critical illness data of
   the patient dataflow pathway (213, 223, 233) of the risk exposure component (21, 22,
25 23, ... ) are transferred to an automated employee assistance system (EAP: Employee
   Assistance Program) providing automated support to the risk exposure component (21,
   22, 23, ... ).
   37. The method according to one of the claims 20 to 36, wherein the patient dataflow
   pathway (213, 223, 233) is monitored by the resource-pooling system (1) by capturing
30 patient measuring parameter of the patient data flow pathway (213, 223, 233) at least
   periodically and/or within predefined time frames.

                                              34
   38. The method according to one of the claims 20 to 37, wherein the patient dataflow
   pathway (213, 223, 233) is dynamically monitored by the resource-pooling system (1)
   by triggering of patient measuring parameters of the patient dataflow pathway (213,
   223, 233) transmitted from associated measuring systems.
 5
                             Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd.
                  Patent Attorneys for the Applicant/Nominated Person
                                  SPRUSON & FERGUSON
10

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
