                                      ABSTRACT
The present disclosure relates to a gel based hair coloring serum composition and a
process for preparing the same. The gel based hair coloring serum composition
comprises a fluid medium, a thickening agent, a humectant, a chelating agent, an
antioxidant, a coloring agent, a coupler, a fragrance, a conditioning agent, and a pH
adjusting agent, in a pre-determined proportion with each other. The present
disclosure further relates to a process for preparing the gel based hair coloring serum
composition. The gel based hair coloring serum composition of the present disclosure
is easy to apply on hair, is peroxide and ammonia free, and hence is safe for use.
Further, the gel based hair coloring serum composition is capable of rapid
development of the color on hair and retains the color even after repeated washing.
                                            29

   GEL BASED HAIR COLORING SERUM COMPOSITION AND A PROCESS
   FOR PREPARING THE SAME
   FIELD
 5 The present disclosure relates to a gel based hair coloring serum composition and a
   process for preparing the same.
   BACKGROUND
   Hair coloring, or hair dyeing, is the practice of changing the hair color. The main
   reasons for changing the hair color are to cover gray or white hair, to change to a
10 color regarded as more fashionable or desirable, to restore the original hair color after
   it has been discolored by hairdressing processes or sun bleaching. The use of coloring
   matters on human hair is well known. Hair dyeing with plants is a multicultural art
   practiced since ancient times. The discovery of synthetic dyes in the 19th century
   began to change the technology of the coloring of hair. The early processes were
15 based on the oxidation of p-phenylenediamine. Commercially, the 'oxidation dyes'
   are the most important class of hair colorant and provide the only satisfactory means
   for permanent dyeing. There are four basic ingredients, namely, ammonia, hydrogen
   peroxide, lauryl sulfate and alcohol that are mainly used in the hair dye.
   Conventional hair dyes containing a plant extract or an organic compound typically
20 require a long hair dyeing time. Further, the hair dyeing property and color
   development are not satisfactory. Still further, the color of the conventional hair dye
   tends to fade on exposure to sunlight.
   Ammonia and hydrogen peroxide used as integral ingredients in hair colors are
   capable of retaining the hair color for a long duration. Without these chemicals, hair
                                               1

   color will fade off after a few washings with shampoo. Ammonia and hydrogen
   peroxide are usually included only in permanent hair dyes.
   However, hydrogen peroxide, if used in large quantities has a corrosive effect, has
   harmful side effects on the nervous system, the digestive system, and the respiratory
 5 organs. It can cause damage to the DNA and is suggested to be cancerous. Further,
   the use of ammonia in the hair dye composition has many disadvantages, such as hair
   becomes rough and brittle with a tendency to tangle easily, formation of split ends,
   weakening of hair, hair breakage, and hair loss. It is also suggested that ammonia
   causes skin allergies, irritation of the eyes, itching in the scalp, and unexplained
10 coughing. Due to the aforestated reasons, the conventional hair dyes cannot be used
   by people who are sensitive to chemicals, have life-threatening illnesses, and are
   pregnant. The conventional hair coloring composition requires comparatively more
   time to color the hair.
   Therefore, there is a felt a need to provide a hair coloring composition which requires
15 short dyeing time having a rapid color development on hair, has good hair dyeing
   property, safe and color tone and lasts for a long time.
   OBJECTS
   Some of the objects of the present disclosure, which at least one embodiment herein
   satisfies, are as follows:
20 It is an object of the present disclosure to ameliorate one or more problems of the
   prior art or to at least provide a useful alternative.
   Another object of the present disclosure is to provide a gel based hair coloring serum
   composition.
   Still another object of the present disclosure is to provide a gel based hair coloring
25 serum composition which is peroxide and ammonia free.
                                                  2

   Yet another object of the present disclosure is to provide a gel based hair coloring
   serum composition that provides rapid color development.
   Yet another object of the present disclosure is to provide a process for the preparation
   of a gel based hair coloring serum composition.
 5 Other objects and advantages of the present disclosure will be more apparent from the
   following description, which is not intended to limit the scope of the present
   disclosure.
   SUMMARY
   The present disclosure relates to a gel based hair coloring serum composition. The gel
10 based hair coloring serum composition comprises 0.5 mass % to 5 mass% of a
   thickening agent with respect to the total mass of the composition; 1 mass% to 5
   mass% a humectant with respect to the total mass of the composition; 0.025 mass%
   to 0.5 mass% of a chelating agent with respect to the total mass of the composition;
   0.1 mass% to 1.0 mass% of an antioxidant with respect to the total mass of the
15 composition; 2 mass% to 5 mass% of a coloring agent with respect to the total mass
   of the composition; 1 mass% to 5 mass% of a coupling agent with respect to the total
   mass of the composition; 0.5 mass% to 2.0 mass% of a fragrance with respect to the
   total mass of the composition; 0.2 mass% to 3.0 mass% of a conditioning agent with
   respect to the total mass of the composition; 0.1 mass% to 3.0 mass% of a pH
20 adjusting agent with respect to the total mass of the composition; 0.5 mass% to 2.0
   mass% of plant extract; and 25 mass% to 90 mass % of water with respect to the
   total mass of the composition.
   The present disclosure further relates to a process for preparing a gel based hair
   coloring serum composition.         The process   comprises weighing predetermined
25 quantities of all the ingredients/raw materials individually. A pre-determined amount
   of water is added to a vessel. A thickening agent is added into the water slowly, with
                                               3

   stirring to obtain a slurry. Care is taken that lumps are not formed during the addition
   of the thickening agent. The slurry is stirred further for a time period in the range of
   40 minutes to 60 minutes. The ratio of thickening agent to water is in the range of
   1:20 to 3:80.
 5 In a separate vessel, a dye phase is prepared. A pre-determined amount of water is
   added to the vessel and heated to the temperature in the range of 55 'C to 65 'C. A
   humectant is added to the hot water, followed by the addition of a chelating agent,
   and coloring agent, under stirring to obtain a dye phase. The ratio of chelating agent:
   coloring agent: humectant is in the range of 0.01:0.5:1 to 2:2.5:2.5
10 The so obtained dye phase is added in the slurry of thickening agent under stirring to
   obtain homogenized resultant slurry.
   Separately admixing anti-oxidant, plant extracts, coupling agent, fragrance, and a
   conditioning agent in water, followed by the addition of a pH adjusting agent, under
   stirring to obtain a mixture. The ratio of antioxidant: plant extract: coupling agent is
15 in the range of 0.1:0.5:1 to 1:2:5.
   The so obtained homogenized resultant slurry is admixed into the mixture of anti
   oxidant, plant extracts, coupling agent, fragrance, a conditioning agent, and pH
   adjusting agent in water, under stirring following by purging nitrogen gas to obtain a
   homogenized liquid. Vacuum pressure is applied to the homogenized liquid in the
20 range of 300 kg/cm2 to 22450 kg/cm2 , to remove any trapped air bubbles, and obtain the
   gel based hair coloring serum composition.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
   The present disclosure envisages a gel based hair coloring serum composition that is
   free of peroxide and ammonia, and is capable of rapid color development on hair.
                                                4

   The gel based hair coloring serum composition comprises, 0.5 mass % to 5 mass% of
   a thickening agent with respect to the total mass of the composition; 1 mass% to 5
   mass% a humectant with respect to the total mass of the composition; 0.025 mass%
   to 0. 5 mass% of a chelating agent with respect to the total mass of the composition;
 5 0.1 mass% to 1.0 mass% of an antioxidant with respect to the total mass of the
   composition; 2 mass% to 5 mass% of a coloring agent with respect to the total mass
   of the composition; 0.1 mass% to 5.0 mass% of a coupling agent with respect to the
   total mass of the composition; 0.5 mass% to 2.0 mass% of a fragrance with respect to
   the total mass of the composition; 0.2 mass% to 3.0 mass% of a conditioning agent
10 with respect to the total mass of the composition; 0.1 mass% to 3.0 mass% of a pH
   adjusting agent with respect to the total mass of the composition; 0.5 mass% to 2.0
   mass% of plant extract with respect to the total mass of the composition; and 25
   mass% to 90 mass % of a water with respect to the total mass of the composition.
   The thickening agent can be one compound or a mixture of compounds, and can be at
15 least one selected from the group comprising guar gum, xanthan gum, gelatin,
   carrageenan, carbomer, starch, sodium alginate, hydroxyethyl cellulose, hydroxy
   propyl methyl cellulose and sodium carboxy methyl cellulose. In one embodiment,
   the thickening agent is a combination of sodium alginate and hydroxyethyl cellulose.
   The humectant can be at least one selected from the group comprising propylene
20 glycol, glycerin, Sodium Pyroglutamic Acid, triethylene glycol, hexylene glycol,
   ethylene glycol, glycerol, butylene glycol, and sorbitol. In one embodiment of the
   present disclosure, the humectant is propylene glycol.
   The chelating agent can be at least one selected from the group comprising disodium
   ethylene diamine tetra acetate (disodium EDTA), ethylene diamine tetra acetate,
25 (EDTA),    tetrasodium    EDTA, trisodium     citrate, and etidronic   acid. In one
   embodiment of the present disclosure, the chelating agent is disodium ethylene
   diamine tetra acetate (Disodium EDTA).
                                              5

   The antioxidant can be at least one selected from the group consisting of ascorbic
   acid, erythorbic acid, ammonium thiolactate, sodium sulphite, vitamin K, vitamin E,
   tocopherol acetate, butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA), butylated hydroxytoluene
   (BHT), ascorbyl palmitate, citric acid, propyl gallate, methionine, and sodium
 5 metabisulfite. The antioxidants inhibit the oxidation of the process caused by free
   radicals. The antioxidant can be a single compound or a mixture of compounds. In
   one embodiment the antioxidant is sodium sulphite.
   In accordance with the present disclosure, the coloring agent is selected from a
   combination of para-phenylenediamine, and para amino phenol and optionally N, N
10 Bis Para-phenylenediamine sulphate. Para amino phenol accelerates the reaction rate
   of (coloring hair) para-phenylenediamine during dyeing the hair, which reduces the
   coloring time to around 50% with respect to the conventional hair color. Moreover,
   use of para amino phenol along with para-phenylenediamine retains the black shade
   and near brownish color even after repeated hair washing.
15 The coupling agent can be a combination of resorcinol, and Meta amino phenol, and
   optionally at least one of 2, 4-diaminophenoxyethanol          dihydrochloride, alpha
   naphthol, and 2-amino-4-hydroxyethylaminoanisole        sulfate. The coupling agent
   undergoes coupling reaction to form high molecular weight products, which are
   trapped in the hair matrix and cannot be readily removed during washing, and thereby
20 aids in retaining the hair color/dye even after repeated washing. The coupling
   agent/coupler can be one compound or a mixture of compounds. In one embodiment
   of the present disclosure, the coupler is a combination of resorcinol and Meta amino
   phenol. Along with of 2,          4-diaminophenoxyethanol   dihydrochloride, Use of
   resorcinol as a coupler in the gel based hair coloring serum composition of the
25 present disclosure reduces the amount of the antioxidant required. Further, the hair
   color composition of the present disclosure is stable without using several
   antioxidants. Still further, resorcinol is comparatively less toxic and suitable for
   sensitive air and sensitive scalp.
                                               6

    In an embodiment of the present disclosure, the conditioning agent can be a
    combination of amodimethicone, C12-C     14 Sec- Pareth -7 and C12-C 14 Sec- Pareth - 5.
    The combination of amodimethicone, C12-C         14 Sec- Pareth -7 and C12-C 14 Sec
    Pareth-5 is sold under the trade name "XIAMETER®MEM-8168 Emulsion" by Dow
 5  Corning. The conditioning agent can be one compound or a mixture of compounds.
    The conditioning agent typically attaches to the hair and creates a thin film, allowing
    the easier combing of wet or dry hair and imparts a silky feel to the hair.
    The pH adjusting agent can be at least one selected from the group comprising
    monoethanolamine,       triethanolamine,    diethanolamine,   aminomethyl     propanol,
10  potassium hydroxide, ammonium hydroxide, and sodium hydroxide. The pH
    adjusting agent maintains the pH of the hair coloring serum composition to lie in the
    range of 7 to 8. In one embodiment the pH adjusting agent is monoethanolamine.
    The amount of fragrance can be in the range of 0.2 mass% to 2.0 mass% of the total
    mass of the gel based hair coloring serum composition.
15  Typically, water is used as the fluid medium. In an embodiment of the present
    disclosure, demineralized water is used as the fluid medium. Typically, the fluid
    medium/water is used in an amount sufficient to make 100 mass% of the gel based
    hair coloring serum composition. In an exemplary embodiment the fluid medium is in
    the range of 25 mass% to 90 %.
20  The gel based hair coloring serum composition of the present disclosure comprises
    extracts of various plants which provide nourishment to the hair. The plant can be
    selected from the group comprising Bacopa monnieri, Camellia sinensis, Eclipta
   prostrata,Hibiscus rosa-sinensis, Indigofera tinctoria, Lawsonia inermis, Murraya
    koenigii, Phyllanthus emblica, Azadirachta indica, Actinidia chinensis, Passifora
25  edulis, Glycyrrhiza glabra, Cucumis sativus, Ocimum tenuiflorum and Trigonella
   foenum-graecum. In one embodiment the plant extracts is a combination of Eclipta
                                                 7

   prostrata, Hibiscus rosa-sinensis, Phyllanthus emblica, and Trigonella foenum
   graecum.
   Bacopa monnieri (Plantaginaceae), also known as waterhyssop, brahmi, thyme-leafed
   gratiola, water hyssop, herb of grace, Indian pennywort) is a perennial, creeping herb
 5 native to the wetlands of southern and Eastern India, Australia, Europe, Africa, Asia,
   and North and South America.
   Camellia sinensis (Theaceae) is native to East Asia, the Indian Subcontinent and
   Southeast Asia, but it is today cultivated across the world in tropical and subtropical
   regions. However, the clonal one is commercially cultivated from the equator to as far
10 north as Cornwall and Scotland on the UK mainland.
   Eclipta prostrata (Asteraceae), also known as false daisy, and Bhringraj grows in
   moist places all over the world. It is widely distributed throughout India, China,
   Thailand, and Brazil.
   Hibiscus rosa-sinensis (Malvaceae), also known as Chinese hibiscus, China rose,
15 Hawaiian hibiscus, and shoeblack plant, is a species of tropical hibiscus, native to
   East Asia.
   Indigofera tinctoria (Fabaceae) also known as true indigo, is a species of plant from
   the bean family that was one of the original sources of indigo dye. It has been
   naturalized to tropical and temperate Asia, as well as parts of Africa, but its native
20 habitat is unknown since it has been in cultivation worldwide for many centuries.
   Lawsonia inermis (Lythraceae) also known as hina, the henna tree, the mignonette
   tree, and the Egyptian privet, is a flowering plant and the sole species of the
   Lawsonia genus. The henna plant is native to northern Africa, western and southern
   Asia, and northern Australia, in semi-arid zones and tropical areas.
                                              8

   Murraya koenigii (Rutaceae, also known as the curry tree is a tropical to sub-tropical
   tree (the rue family, which includes rue, citrus, and satinwood), which is native to
   India and Sri Lanka.
   Phyllanthus emblica (Phyllanthaceae), also known as emblic, emblic myrobalan,
 5 myrobalan, Indian gooseberry, Malacca tree, and amla is a deciduous tree, indigenous
   to a large area ranging from Nepal, India, and Sri Lanka, throughout South-East Asia
   to southern China. It is widely cultivated for its fruits throughout its natural area of
   distribution, particularly in India, and also in the Mascarene Islands (R6union,
   Mauritius), the West Indies, and Japan.
10 Trigonellafoenum-graecum (Fabaceae), also known as methi is cultivated worldwide
   as a semiarid crop. Major fenugreek-producing countries are Afghanistan, Pakistan,
   India, Iran, Nepal, Bangladesh, Argentina, Egypt, France, Spain, Turkey, and
   Morocco.
   Azadirachta indica (Meliaceae), is commonly known as neem, nimtree and Indian
15 lilac. It is native to the Indian subcontinent, i.e. India, Nepal, Pakistan, Bangladesh,
   Sri Lanka, and Maldives. It typically grows in tropical and semi-tropical regions.
   Neem trees now also grow in islands located in the southern part of Iran.
   Actinidia chinensis (Actinidiaceae) is a fruit tree and medicinal plant native to China.
   It is pollinated by bees.
20 Passifloraedulis (Passifloraceae), also known as passion fruit or passionfruit is a vine
   species of passion flower that is native to southern Brazil through Paraguay to
   northern Argentina.
   Glycyrrhiza glabra (Fabaceae) is native to southern Europe, and parts of Asia.
   Cucumis sativus (Cucurbitaceae) is originally from South Asia, but now grows on
25 most continents.
                                               9

   Ocimum tenuiflorum (Lamiaceae) also known by the synonym, Ocimum sanctum, It
   is commonly known as holy basil, tulasi (sometimes spelled thulasi) or tulsi, is an
   native to the Indian subcontinent and is widespread as a cultivated plant throughout
   the Southeast Asian tropics.
 5 The plant extracts that may be introduced in the gel based hair coloring serum
   composition provide nourishment to the hair and aid in its healthy growth.
   The plant parts used in the gel based hair coloring serum composition of the present
   disclosure can be derived from the barks, roots, tubers, stigma, kernels, exudates,
   stolons, rhizome, leaves, seeds, nuts, berries, fruits, stems and flowers of the plants
10 are commercially purchased from the market as value added products and therefore,
   the specific source of the product is unknown.
   In one embodiment, the gel based hair coloring serum composition comprises 2.5
   mass % of sodium alginate or 1 mass% of hydroxyethyl cellulose or mixtures thereof;
   0.05 mass % of sodium carboxy methyl cellulose; 3.5 mass % of propylene glycol;
15 0.05 mass % of disodium Ethylene diamine tetra acetate; 0.15 mass % of sodium
   sulphite;     3.5   mass     %   para-phenylenediamine;      1.75   mass%      of   2,4
   diaminophenoxyethanol dihydrochloride; 0.2 mass % of combination of Aamla
   Extract (Phyllanthus emblica), Bhringraj extract (Ecliptaprostrata), Jasund extract
   (Hibiscus rosa-sinensis) and Methi extract (Trigonella foenum-graecum); 1 mass %
20 of fragrance; 0.5 mass % of a combination of amodimethicone, C 12 -C 14 Sec-pareth-7
   and C 12 -C 14 Sec-pareth-5; 0.5 to 1.0 mass % of Monoethanol amine to adjust the pH
   between 7.1 to 7.5; 0.75 mass% of resorcinol; 0.75 mass % of meta-amino phenol;
   0.75 mass % of para- amino phenol; and 82 mass % of DM water.
   In another aspect of the present disclosure, there is provided a process for preparing a
25 gel based hair coloring serum composition. The process is hereinafter described in
   detail.
                                              10

   Initially, all the ingredients/raw materials are weighed and stored in individual poly
   bags or stainless steel vessel till use.
   A pre-determined amount of water is added to a vessel. In an embodiment, the vessel
   is made of stainless steel and is fitted with a mechanical stirrer. Typically, the water is
 5 added via a bottom nozzle present in the vessel. A thickening agent is added to the
   water slowly, with stirring to obtain slurry. Care is taken that lumps are not formed
   during the addition of the thickening agent. The so obtained slurry is stirred further
   for a time period in the range of 40 minutes to 60 minutes. The ratio of thickening
   agent to water is in the range of 1:20 to 3:80.
10 In a separate vessel, a dye phase is prepared. A pre-determined amount of water is
   added to the vessel. In an embodiment, the vessel is made of stainless steel and is
   fitted with a mechanical stirrer. In another embodiment, the temperature of the fluid
   medium is in the range of 55 'C to 65 'C. A humectant is added to the hot water,
   followed by the addition of a chelating agent, and coloring agent, under stirring to
15 obtain the dye phase. The ratio of chelating agent: coloring agent: humectant is in the
   range of 0.01:0.5:1 to 2:2.5:2.5.
   The so obtained slurry of thickening agent and the dye phase is mixed under stirring,
   to obtain resultant homogenized slurry.
   Separately admixing anti-oxidant, plant extracts, coupling agent, fragrance, and a
20 conditioning agent in water, followed by the addition of a pH adjusting agent, under
   stirring to obtain a mixture. The ratio of antioxidant: plant extract: coupling agent is
   in the range of 0.1:0.5:1 to 1:2:5.
   The so obtained homogenized resultant slurry is admixed into the mixture of anti
   oxidant, plant extracts, coupling agent, fragrance, a conditioning agent, and pH
25 adjusting agent in water, under stirring following by purging nitrogen gas to obtain a
   homogenized liquid. Vacuum pressure is applied to the homogenized liquid in the
                                                11

   range of 300 kg/cm2 to 22
                           450 kg/cm 2 , to remove any trapped air bubbles, and obtain the
   gel based hair coloring serum composition.
   The gel based hair coloring serum composition is subjected to quality control and
   quality assurance tests to confirm that the finished product meets the desired
 5 standards.
   The gel based hair coloring serum composition is peroxide and ammonia free and
   hence is safe for use and is easy to apply. Further, the hair coloring serum
   composition is capable of developing the color in a short duration of time and retains
   the color even after repeated washing.
10 The plant extracts, namely, Bacopa monnieri, Camellia sinensis, Eclipta prostrata,
   Hibiscus rosa-sinensis, Indigofera tinctoria, Lawsonia inermis, Murraya koenigii,
   Phyllanthus emblica, Azadirachta indica, Actinidia chinensis, Passiflora edulis,
   Glycyrrhiza glabra, Cucumis sativus, Ocimum tenuiflorum and Trigonella foenum
   graecum, that may be introduced in the gel based hair coloring serum composition of
15 the present disclosure are value added products appearing in an unrecognizable and
   physically inseparable form and therefore do not qualify as biological resources under
   the National Biodiversity Act.
   The present disclosure is further described in light of the following laboratory scale
   experiments which are set forth for illustration purpose only and not to be construed
20 for limiting the scope of the disclosure. These laboratory scale experiments can be
   scaled up to industrial/commercial scale and the results obtained can be extrapolated
   to industrial/commercial scale.
   EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS
   Experiment 1: Gel based hair coloring serum compositions (Examples 1 to 8) in
25 accordance with process of the present disclosure:
                                               12

   The gel based hair coloring serum composition in accordance with the present
   disclosure was prepared by the following general process. The quantities of the
   ingredients used in the gel based hair coloring serum compositions are provided in
   Table 1.
 5 Firstly, a thickening agent was mixed with demineralized water to obtain slurry.
   Further, a dye phase was prepared by mixing a humectant, chelating agent, followed
   by addition of coloring agent, in a hot water (50 C) to obtain a dye phase.
   The so obtained slurry was mixed with the so obtained dye phase to obtain resultant
   homogenized slurry.
10 Separately, a solution of coupling agent was prepared in water, followed by addition
   of an antioxidant, a combination of plant extracts, a -conditioning         agent and
   fragrance was added to obtain a mixture. The pH of so obtained mixture was adjusted
   to lie between 7-8 by adding a pH adjusting agent.
   The so obtained mixture was added in the so obtained resultant homogenized slurry
15 under stirring to obtain a homogenized liquid. The so obtained homogenized liquid
   was kept under vacuum pressure of 350 kg/cm 2 to obtain the gel based hair coloring
   serum composition
                                              13

   4-o
       2                 i
          II-
 0
       2.
                 cii
ci
       2.
                     ciC
              ot
                              ct    cC
                      E~ct
                           ct    66

                                            t   n     I          n   to
    10
             cl                               to              t
          Cl)                                                             00tf to   t
  I      Cl     i     i     i       i  ~en      ]     I         -     -      -      0
I       6                          2
                                               0
                                   a3   to
                                         Z3                                   I
                                      Cl                  i ~zI
                                      0 Cl    0     0          6
     Cl                  I               it,                              (z  I   t
                    * Cl                t~ Cl
           *    I I      iI
                              *
                                0
                                 i
                                 I
                                        Cl0
                                           *
                                              ~   *
                                                    0
                                                        ~   o     *
                                                                    ooZ3*     I

   I    I     I       I       I        I   Lit             tfl    L/t                     L/t    L/t
                                           N       i i     N      N      i    i      i    N      N
                                           0               0      0                       0
   L/t  L/t                         L/t                                              Lit
   N    N                     I           I     I    I     I     I       I        I         I    0
              I       I       I     N     i     i    i     I     I       I        I  N
   0    0                           0                                                0
               L t                 I       I    I    I         I     I
                                                                          Lit  L/t   L/t         o
               N                                                          N    N     N:
               0                                                          0    0     0
        Lit    Lit                     I      I             Lit   L/t
        N      N         :       :     :      :    :
                                                   I    I
                                                        :   N     N    :      :      :       I
                                                                                             :
        0      0                                            0     0
   Lit  L/t    L/t     L/t                 I    I    I         I     I   I    I      I       I   o
   N    N      N       N      :     :      :    :    :         :     :   :    :      :
   o    o      0       0
        Lit    L/t
     I                I       I     I      I    ~              I     I   I    I      I       I   0
        N
        o      N
               o      :       :     :      :    N
                                                0
                                                      N
                                                      0
                                                               :     :   :    :
                                                                                                     ~-1
   Lit                   I     ~    ~              I    I      I     I   I    I      I       I   0
   N      :      :       :     N    N      N       :    :      :     :   :    :      :
   o                           666
   Lit  L/t    L/t     L/t
   N    N      N       N      :     :     :
                                          I        I
                                                   :    I
                                                        :      I
                                                               :     :
                                                                     I
                                                                         :
                                                                         I    I
                                                                              :     I
                                                                                    :        I
                                                                                             :
   o    o      0       0
             U
-~     U    -~             -~
                                             o         -~    o
                                                             -~
                                                                   dU      o
                                                                           -~   -~
                                                                                 U    ,~
 o     d     Z      -~
                            do       '-~                o    d                   d     U
~      z    -o       ~     ~                 Z         ~     z    ~        z     ~             U  ~
                                                 -~               .t      ~
 2     ~     d     '2        2        2      -2   ~  *
 d     00
                                       C)    C          C)          ~
                                                                                 U
                                                                                      2~j    E
       -~                           7            Z                  ~            ~   F
                                           U                              ~-2  U

             ~fln
                                 2*1
cu    )   cu               I   I
        * cI               I   I f
              kIC)
           -~~     I         0
   C)     C)
                       00
   o                                 5d
                        0*
                                      Cd
                     0                0

         Study for retention of the color of the gel based hair coloring serum composition
         of the present disclosure
         The gel based hair coloring serum compositions (composition of Example 1) of the
         present disclosure was tested on natural black and white hair tresses to evaluate the
    5    color retention property. The gel based hair coloring serum composition was applied
         on 5 different samples (Tresses 1 to 5), and the result obtained is summarized in
         Table 2.
         Table 2:
Sr.                    1st              After 5 wash       After 10       After 15         After 20
                       application -                         wash           wash             wash
                       development
                       time -1 hour
                       30 minutes
1     Tresses-i        On grey hair    On grey hair     On grey hair   On grey hair     On grey hair
                                       black shade      soft black     soft black to    darkest brown
      Natural Black    black (with
                                                        shade          darkest brown    shade
      & white hair     blue tint)
                                                                       shade            (gradual
      tresses          After 24 hrs
                                                                       (gradual         fading)
                       the shade was
                                                                       fading)
                       black
2     Tresses-2        On grey hair    On grey hair     On grey hair   On grey hair     On grey hair
                                       black shade      soft black     soft black to    darkest brown
      Natural Black    black (with
                                                        shade          darkest brown    shade
      & white hair     blue tint)
                                                                       shade            (gradual
      tresses          After 24 hrs
                                                                       (gradual         fading)
                       the shade was
                                                                       fading)
                                                   18

                    black
3 Tresses-3         On grey hair     On grey hair     On grey hair   On grey hair      On grey hair
                                     black shade      soft black to  darkest brown     dark brown
  Natural Black     black (with
                                                      darkest brown  shade (fading     shade (fading
  & white hair      blue tint)
                                                      shade          observed)         observed)
  tresses           After 24 hrs
                                                      (gradual
                    the shade was
                                                      fading)
                    black
4 Tresses-4         On grey hair     On grey hair     On grey hair   On grey hair      On grey hair
                                     black shade      soft black     soft black to     darkest brown
  Natural Black     black (with
                                                      shade          darkest brown     shade
  & white hair      blue tint)
                                                                     shade             (gradual
  tresses           After 24 hrs
                                                                     (gradual          fading)
                    the shade was
                                                                     fading)
                    black
5 Tresses-5         On grey hair     On grey hair     On grey hair   On grey hair      On grey hair
                                     black shade      soft black     soft black to     darkest brown
  Natural Black     black (with
                                                      shade          darkest brown     shade
  & white hair      blue tint)
                                                                     shade             (gradual
  tresses           After 24 hrs
                                                                     (gradual          fading)
                    the shade was
                                                                     fading)
                    black
     It is seen from Table- 2 that, a color of the darkest brown shade is retained even after
     20 washings.
                                                 19

   Study of color development using the gel based hair coloring serum composition
   of the present disclosure
   Studies were carried to determine the color development efficacy of the gel based hair
   coloring serum composition by testing the composition on volunteers. Volunteers in
 5 the age group of 21 to 75 years having grey hair were chosen for the study.
   Volunteers with scalp, skin diseases, or cut on head were not selected for the study.
   Prior to starting the study, details of the selected volunteers were noted down, such as
   natural hair colour, approximate percent of grey hair, length of hair from root, and
   hair washing habits of the volunteers. During colour /dye application and after hair
10 wash, the feedback from the volunteer is taken and the volunteer is regularly
   observed for a period of 1 month. The stability of colour /dye on hair is judged by
   visual observation.12 volunteers (6 males (Ml to M2 and 6 females (F1 to F6)) were
   selected who were having above 50 % grey hairs and minimum 1 inch visible grey
   hair re-growth. All the volunteers were regular users of hair dye and had not applied
15 hair dye /colour for an average of 45 days before the start of the study. The color
   development efficacy of the gel based hair coloring serum composition of the present
   disclosure (Sample A) was compared with a commercially available hair dye (Sample
   B). The results obtained are summarized in Table 3.
20 Sample A and Sample B were applied by brush and the color was allowed to develop
   for 90 minutes. Sample A was applied on the left hand side of the head of the
   volunteer and Sample B was applied on the right hand side of the head of the
   volunteer. The hair was washed with shampoo and water after 90 minutes, towel
   dried and finally dried with hair blow dryer.
25
                                                 20

       Table 3:
                Left hand side Right hand side Global          Results on grey hair and
                on head        on head         application    overall shade produce in 1
                application    application                            application.
Volunteer M-1   Sample A       Sample B        ---         On LHS on grey hair soft black
                                                           shade (with blue tint) overall
&                                                          soft black with 100 %coverage.
Volunteer F1                                               On RHS on grey hair yellowish
                                                           brown shade.
Volunteer M-2   Sample A       Sample B                    On LHS on grey hair soft black
                                                           shade (with blue tint) overall
&                                                          soft black with 100 %coverage.
Volunteer F2                                               On RHS on grey hair yellowish
                                                           brown shade.
Volunteer M-3   Sample A       Sample B                    On LHS on grey hair soft black
                                                           shade (with blue tint) overall
&                                                          soft black with 100 %coverage.
Volunteer F3                                               On RHS on grey hair yellowish
                                                           brown shade.
Volunteer M-4   Sample A       Sample B                    On LHS on grey hair soft black
                                                           shade (with blue tint) overall
&                                                          soft black with 100 %coverage.
Volunteer F4                                               On RHS on grey hair yellowish
                                                           brown shade.
Volunteer M-5   --             --              Sample A    On grey hair soft black shade
                                                           (with blue tint) overall soft black
&                                                          with 100 %coverage.
Volunteer F5
Volunteer M-6   --             --              Sample B    On grey hair yellowish brown
                                                           shade.
&
                                           21

Volunteer F6
       LHS* : Left hand side on head application;
       RHS**: Right hand side on head application;
       Global application***:LHS as well as RHS
  5    The volunteers were recalled on 2 "d day,    7 th day, 1 4 th day, 2 1" day &  2 8 th day and
       observed. The observation was as follows.
       Volunteer M1 to M4 :
            -   The shade on LHS on grey hair on 2 "d day was black, whereas on RHS the
                shade on grey was brown.
 10         -   After 7 days the shade on LHS on grey hair was black, whereas on RHS the
                shade on grey was brown.
            -   After 14 days the shade on LHS on grey hair was black, whereas on RHS the
                shade on grey was Light brown. Gradual fading was seen on RHS.
            -   After 21 days the shade on LHS on grey hair was soft black to dark brown,
 15             whereas on RHS the shade on grey was very light brown. On LHS side
                gradual fading was observed whereas on RHS more fading was observed.
            Volunteer no. M5 to M6 :
            -   For volunteers M5 the shade on grey hair on 2 "dday was black, during          7 th &
                1 4 th day observation, no fading was observed. On 21" day the shade on grey
 20             hair was soft black to dark brown which indicated gradual fading.
            -   For volunteers M6 the shade on grey hair on 2        day was light brown, during 7
                & 14 days observation fading was observed. On 21 days the shade on grey
                hair was very light brown with heavy fading
       It is seen from the table 3 that,
                                                   22

       -   The commercial dye imparts light brown shade in 1 hour 30 minutes, whereas
           the gel based hair coloring serum composition of the present disclosure
           imparts black shade on grey hair in 1 hour 30 minutes.
       -   The commercial dye needs to be applied for 2- 3 times on consecutive days to
 5         obtain the desired shade (Black), whereas gel based hair coloring serum
           composition of the present disclosure imparts black shade on grey hair in one
           application.
   TECHNICAL ADVANCEMENTS
10 The present disclosure described herein above has several technical advantages
   including, but not limited to, the realization of a gel based hair coloring serum
   composition that is free of peroxide and ammonia, and is capable of rapid color
   development. The gel based hair coloring serum composition of the present
   disclosure is safe and also provides nourishment to the hair and aids in its healthy
15 growth.
   Throughout this specification the word "comprise", or variations such as "comprises"
   or "comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated element,
   integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps, but not the exclusion of any
   other element, integer or step, or group of elements, integers or steps.
20 The use of the expression "at least" or "at least one" suggests the use of one or more
   elements or ingredients or quantities, as the use may be in the embodiment of the
   invention to achieve one or more of the desired objects or results. While certain
   embodiments of the inventions have been described, these embodiments have been
   presented by way of example only, and are not intended to limit the scope of the
25 inventions. Variations or modifications to the formulation of this invention, within
   the scope of the invention, may occur to those skilled in the art upon reviewing the
                                              23

   disclosure herein. Such variations or modifications are well within the spirit of this
   invention.
   The numerical values given for various physical parameters, dimensions and
   quantities are only approximate values and it is envisaged that the values higher than
 5 the numerical value assigned to the physical parameters, dimensions and quantities
   fall within the scope of the invention unless there is a statement in the specification to
   the contrary.
   While considerable emphasis has been placed herein on the specific features of the
   preferred embodiment, it will be appreciated that many additional features can be
10 added and that many changes can be made in the preferred embodiment without
   departing from the principles of the disclosure. These and other changes in the
   preferred embodiment of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art
   from the disclosure herein, whereby it is to be distinctly understood that the foregoing
   descriptive matter is to be interpreted merely as illustrative of the disclosure and not
15 as a limitation.
                                              24

CLAIMS:
  1. A gel based hair coloring serum composition comprising:
         a. 0.5 mass% to 5 mass% of a thickening agent with respect to the total
              mass of the composition;
         b. 1 mass% to 5 mass% of a humectant with respect to the total mass of
              the composition;
         c.   0.025 mass% to 0. 5 mass% of a chelating agent with respect to the
              total mass of the composition;
         d. 0.1 mass% to 1.0 mass% of an antioxidant with respect to the total
              mass of the composition;
         e.   2 mass% to 5 mass% of a coloring agent with respect to the total mass
              of the composition;
         f.   1 mass% to 5 mass% of a coupling agent with respect to the total mass
              of the composition;
         g. 0.5 mass% to 2.0 mass% of a fragrance with respect to the total mass
              of the composition;
         h. 0.2 mass% to 3 mass% of a conditioning agent with respect to the total
              mass of the composition;
         i.   0.1 mass% to 3 mass% of a pH adjusting agent with respect to the total
              mass of the composition;
         j.   0.5 mass% to 2.0 mass% of a plant extract; and
         k. 25 mass% to 90 mass % of water with respect to the total mass of the
              composition.
  2. The composition as claimed in claim 1, wherein said thickening agent is at
     least one selected from the group consisting of guar gum, xanthan gum,
     gelatin,    carrageenan,   carbomer,    starch, sodium  alginate, hydroxyethyl
                                          25

cellulose, hydroxy propyl methyl cellulose and sodium carboxy methyl
cellulose; or
wherein said humectant is at least one selected from the group consisting of
propylene glycol, glycerin, Sodium Pyroglutamic Acid,        triethylene glycol,
hexylene glycol, ethylene glycol, glycerol, butylene glycol, and sorbitol; or
wherein said chelating agent is at least one selected from the group consisting
of disodium ethylene diamine tetra acetate (disodium EDTA), ethylene
diamine tetra acetate, tetrasodium EDTA, trisodium citrate, and etidronic acid;
or
wherein said antioxidant is at least one selected from the group consisting of
ascorbic acid, erythorbic acid, ammonium thiolactate, sodium sulphite,
vitamin K, vitamin E, tocopherol acetate, butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA),
butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT), ascorbyl palmitate, citric acid, propyl
gallate, methionine, and sodium metabisulfite; or
wherein said coloring agent is a combination of para-phenylenediamine, and
para amino phenol, and optionally N,N Bis Para-phenylenediamine sulphate;
or
wherein said coupling agent is a combination of resorcinol, and meta amino
phenol,    and  optionally     at  least   one of 2,4-diaminophenoxyethanol
dihydrochloride,    alpha     naphthol,   2-Amino-4-Hydroxyethylaminoanisole
Sulfate; or
wherein said conditioning agent is a combination of amodimethicone, C 1 2 -C1 4
sec- Pareth-7 and C 12 -C1 4 sec- Pareth-5; or
                                     26

   wherein said pH adjusting agent is selected from the group comprising
   monoethanolamine, triethanolamine, diethanolamine, aminomethyl propanol,
   potassium hydroxide, ammonium hydroxide and sodium hydroxide; or
   wherein said plant extract is at least one selected from Bacopa monnieri,
   Camellia sinensis, Eclipta prostrata, Hibiscus rosa-sinensis, Indigofera
   tinctoria, Lawsonia inermis, Murraya koenigii, Phyllanthus emblica,
   Azadirachta indica, Actinidia chinensis, Passiflora edulis, Glycyrrhiza
   glabra, Cucumis sativus, Ocimum tenuiflorum and Trigonella foenum
   graecum.
3. A process for preparing a gel based hair coloring serum composition, said
   process comprising following steps:
       a. admixing thickening agent into water under stirring to obtain a slurry,
           wherein the ratio thickening agent to water is in the range of 1:20 to
           3:80;
       b. separately admixing humectant, chelating agent, and coloring agent in
           hot water having a temperature in the range of 55 C to 65 C under
           stirring to obtain a dye phase, wherein the ratio of chelating agent:
           coloring agent: humectant is in the range of 0.01:0.5:1 to 2:2.5:2.5.
       c.  mixing said dye phase into said slurry to obtain a homogenized
           resultant slurry;
       d. separately admixing antioxidant, plant extracts and coupling agent,
           fragrance, conditioning agent and pH adjusting agent in water, under
           stirring to obtain a mixture, wherein the ratio of antioxidant: plant
           extract: coupling agent is in the range of 0.1:0.5:1 to 1:2:5;
                                        27

e. admixing said mixture obtained in step (d) into said homogenized
   resultant slurry obtained in step (c), to obtain a homogenized liquid;
   and
f. applying vacuum pressure in the range of 300 kg/cm to 450 kg/cm 2 to
   said homogenized liquid to obtain the gel based hair coloring serum
   composition.
                               28

