                                        ABSTRACT
Disclosed herein are compositions and methods related to aromatic-cationic peptides. In
particular, the compositions and methods relate to aromatic-cationic peptides in conjunction
with cytochrome c. In some embodiments, the aromatic-cationic peptide comprises one or
more ofD-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH2 (P-231), DArg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH2, and D-Arg-D-Tyr
D-Lys-D-Phe-N H2 (P-2310). In some embodiments, the method relates to increasing
cytochrome c reduction, enhancing electron diffusion through cytochrome c, enhancing
electron capacity in cytochrome c, and/or inducing novel n-n interactions around cytochrome
c.

  WO 2013/155334                                                         PCT/US2013/036222
          AROMATIC-CATIONIC PEPTIDES AND USES OF SAME
                 CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]    This Application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Application
No. 61/623,348, filed on April 12, 2012, which is incorporated herein by reference in its
entirety.
                                     TECHNICAL FIELD
[0002]    Disclosed herein are compositions and methods related to aromatic-cationic
peptides. In particular, the compositions and methods relate to aromatic-cationic peptides in
conjunction with cytochrome c.
                                       BACKGROUND
[0003]    The aromatic-cationic peptides disclosed herein are useful in therapeutic
applications relating to mitochondrial dysfunction. When administered to a mammal in
need thereof, the peptides localize to the mitochondria and improve the integrity and
function of the organelle. Cytochrome c is a small heme protein found loosely associated
with the inner membrane of the mitochondrion and is a component of the electron transport
chain. Cytochrome c can catalyze several reactions such as hydroxylation and aromatic
oxidation, and shows peroxidase activity by oxidation of various electron donors such as
2,2-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulphonic acid), 2-keto-4-thiomethyl butyric acid and
4-aminoantipyrine.
                                          SUMMARY
[0004]    In one aspect, the present technology provides methods for the use of aromatic
cationic peptides or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some embodiments, the
aromatic-cationic peptide comprises one or more of D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 (P-23 1), D
Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2, and D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 (P-23 1D).
[0005]    In some aspects, the present disclosures provides methods and compositions
relating to cytochrome c and an aromatic-cationic peptide. In some embodiments, the
method relates to increasing cytochrome c reduction, enhancing electron diffusion through

  WO 2013/155334                                                          PCT/US2013/036222
cytochrome c, enhancing electron capacity in cytochrome c, and/or inducing novel 7E-nE
interactions around cytochrome c. In some embodiments, a sample containing cytochrome
c is contacted with an effective amount of an aromatic-cationic peptide or a salt thereof. In
some embodiments, the aromatic-cationic peptide is one or more of D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe
NH 2 (P-23 1), D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 , and D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 (P
231D).
[0006]     In some embodiments, cytochrome c is present in a sample in purified, isolated
and/or concentrated form. In some embodiments, cytochrome c is present in a sample in a
natural form. For example, in some embodiments, cytochrome c is present in one or more
mitochondria. In some embodiments, the mitochondria are isolated. In other embodiments,
the mitochondria are present in a cell or in a cellular preparation.
[0007]     In some aspects, the present disclosure provides methods relating to mitochondrial
respiration. In some embodiments, the method relates to increasing mitochondrial 02
consumption, increasing ATP synthesis in a sample, and/or enhancing respiration in
cytochrome c-depleted mitoplasts. In some embodiments, a sample containing
mitochondria, and/or cytochrome depleted mitoplasts is contacted with an effective amount
of an aromatic-cationic peptide, or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. In some
embodiments, the aromatic-cationic peptide comprises one or more of D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe
NH 2 (P-23 1), D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 , and D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 (P
231D).
[0008]     In some embodiments, the mitochondria are present in a sample in purified,
isolated and/or concentrated form. In some embodiments, the mitochondria are present in a
sample in a natural form. For example, in some embodiments, the mitochondria are present
in a cell or in a cellular preparation.
[0009]     In some embodiments the aromatic-cationic peptide comprises one or more of D
Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 (P-23 1), D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 , and D-Arg-D-Tyr-D
Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 (P-231D). Additionally or alternatively, in some embodiments, the
aromatic-cationic peptide comprises one or more of
                         D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2
                         D-Arg-Dmt- D-Lys-Phe-NH 2
                         D-Arg-Dmt-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2
                         Phe-D-Arg-D-Phe-Lys-NH 2
                                                2

 WO 2013/155334                                                       PCT/US2013/036222
                     Phe-D-Arg-Phe-D-Lys-NH 2
                     D-Phe-D-Arg-D-Phe-D-Lys-NH 2
                     Lys-D-Phe-Arg-Dmt-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Arg-Dmt-Phe-NH 2
                     Dmt-D-Phe -Arg-Lys-NH 2
                     Phe-D-Dmt-Arg-Lys-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Dmt-Lys-NH 2
                     Arg-D-Dmt-Lys-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Dmt-Phe-NH 2
                     Arg-D-Dmt-Arg-NH 2
                     Dmt-D-Arg-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Dmt-NH 2
                     D-Dmt-Arg-NH 2
                     Arg-D-Dmt-NH 2
                     D-Arg-D-Dmt-NH 2
                     D-Arg-D-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Tyr- D-Lys-Phe-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2
                     D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2
                     Lys-D-Phe-Arg-Tyr-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Arg-Tyr-Phe-NH 2
                     Tyr-D-Phe-Arg-Lys-NH 2
                     Phe-D-Tyr-Arg-Lys-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-NH 2
                     Arg-D-Tyr-Lys-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Tyr-Phe-NH 2
                     Arg-D-Tyr-Arg-NH 2
                     Tyr-D-Arg-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Tyr-NH 2
                     D-Tyr-Arg-NH 2
                     Arg-D-Tyr-NH 2
                     D-Arg-D-Tyr-NH 2
                     Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2
                     Lys-Dmt-D-Arg-NH 2
                     Phe-Lys-Dmt-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Phe-Lys-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Cha-Lys-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Trp-Lys-NH 2
                     Dmt-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2
                     Dmt-Lys-NH 2
                     Lys-Phe-NH 2
                     D-Arg-Cha-Lys-Cha-NH 2
                     D-Nle-Dmt-Ahe-Phe-NH 2
                     D-Nle-Cha-Ahe-Cha-NH 2
wherein Cha is cyclohexylalanine, NMe is norleucine, and Ahe is 2-amino-heptanoic acid.
                                             3

  WO 2013/155334                                                                PCT/US2013/036222
[0010]   In one embodiment, the peptide is defined by formula I:
                             R5                             R10
                                  R6            R9                R1 1
                R4
                R3                 R7           R8                 R 12
                          H2 C                  0        H2C                  0
                 R1                H                               H
                                   N    D)                         N
                      N                               N                            NH 2
                             /                        H
                                0        (CH 2 )3               0       (CH 2 )n
                                           TH                            NH 2
                                       / C
                                   HN           NH 2
wherein RI and R2 are each independently selected from
       (i) hydrogen;
       (ii) linear or branched C1-C6 alkyl;
             1-(CH
              -i)       2)m                 where   m  = 1-3;
       (iii)
       (iv)       ~H2           ;
       (v)
R', R, R', R6, R, R', R, R", R 1 and R1 2 are each independently selected from
       (i) hydrogen;
       (ii) linear or branched C1 -C6 alkyl;
       (iii) CI-C 6 alkoxy;
       (iv) amino;
       (v) CI-C 4 alkylamino;
       (vi) C1-C4 dialkylamino;
       (vii) nitro;
       (viii) hydroxyl;
                                                    4

  WO 2013/155334                                                               PCT/US2013/036222
         (ix) halogen, where "halogen" encompasses chloro, fluoro, bromo, and iodo; and
n is an integer from I to 5.
[0011]     Ina particular embodiment, R1, R2, R, R, R', R6, R, R', R ,           0  R 1 1, and R are
all hydrogen; and n is 4. In another embodiment, R1, R2, R, R, R', R6, R, R', R, and R11
are all hydrogen; R8 and R12 are methyl; R10 is hydroxyl; and n is 4.
[0012]     In one embodiment, the peptide is defined by formula II:
                                             OH                        R7
                                                                 R6           R8
                                      R3              R4         R5            R9
                                             OH2                 0     CH 2
                                       O
                               R1                     H
                           N   D                      N                        NH 2
                                           N                        N
                                                                    HH
                      R2                   H
                                (CH 2 )3         0         (CH2)n           0
                                  H                         NH2
                            HN         NH2
wherein Ri and R2 are each independently selected from
         (i) hydrogen;
         (ii) linear or branched C1 -C6 alkyl;
                -i)
               1-(CH     2)m                   where m  = 1-3;
         (iii)
         (iv)                     ;
                 -H2
R3 and R4 are each independently selected from
         (i) hydrogen;
         (ii) linear or branched C1 -C6 alkyl;
         (iii) C1-C6 alkoxy;
         (iv) amino;
                                                     5

  WO 2013/155334                                                         PCT/US2013/036222
         (v) C1 -C 4 alkylamino;
         (vi) C1-C4 dialkylamino;
         (vii) nitro;
         (viii) hydroxyl;
         (ix) halogen, where "halogen" encompasses chloro, fluoro, bromo, and iodo;
R , R6, R7, R8, and R 9 are each independently selected from
         (i) hydrogen;
         (ii) linear or branched C1 -C6 alkyl;
         (iii) C1-C6 alkoxy;
         (iv) amino;
         (v) C1 -C 4 alkylamino;
         (vi) C1-C4 dialkylamino;
         (vii) nitro;
         (viii) hydroxyl;
         (ix) halogen, where "halogen" encompasses chloro, fluoro, bromo, and iodo; and
n is an integer from I to 5.
[0013]     In a particular embodiment, RI and R 2 are hydrogen; R3 and R 4 are methyl; R5, R6,
R , R , and R are all hydrogen; and n is 4.
[0014]     In one embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptides have a core structural motif of
alternating aromatic and cationic amino acids. Fr example, the peptide may be a
tetrapeptide defined by any of formulas III to VI set forth below:
                     Aromatic - Cationic - Aromatic - Cationic (Formula III)
                     Cationic - Aromatic - Cationic - Aromatic (Formula IV)
                      Aromatic - Aromatic - Cationic - Cationic (Formula V)
                     Cationic - Cationic - Aromatic - Aromatic (Formula VI)
wherein, Aromatic is a residue selected from the group consisting of: Phe (F), Tyr (Y), Trp
(W), and Cyclohexylalanine (Cha); and Cationic is a residue selected from the group
consisting of: Arg (R), Lys (K), Norleucine (Nle), and 2-amino-heptanoic acid (Ahe).
                                                6

  WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
                                   DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0015]    It is to be appreciated that certain aspects, modes, embodiments, variations and
features of the invention are described below in various levels of detail in order to provide a
substantial understanding of the present invention.
[0016]    In practicing the present invention, many conventional techniques in molecular
biology, protein biochemistry, cell biology, immunology, microbiology and recombinant
DNA are used. These techniques are well-known and are explained in, e.g., Current
Protocolsin MolecularBiology, Vols. I-III, Ausubel, Ed. (1997); Sambrook et al.,
Molecular Cloning: A LaboratoryManual, Second Ed. (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
Press, Cold Spring Harbor, NY, 1989); DNA Cloning: A PracticalApproach, Vols. I and II,
Glover, Ed. (1985); Oligonucleotide Synthesis, Gait, Ed. (1984); Nucleic Acid
Hybridization, Hames & Higgins, Eds. (1985); Transcriptionand Translation,Hames &
Higgins, Eds. (1984); Animal Cell Culture, Freshney, Ed. (1986); Immobilized Cells and
Enzymes (IRL Press, 1986); Perbal, A PracticalGuide to Molecular Cloning; the series,
Meth. Enzymol., (Academic Press, Inc., 1984); Gene Transfer Vectorsfor Mammalian
Cells, Miller & Calos, Eds. (Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, NY, 1987); and Meth.
Enzymol., Vols. 154 and 155, Wu & Grossman, and Wu, Eds., respectively.
[0017]    The definitions of certain terms as used in this specification are provided below.
Unless defined otherwise, all technical and scientific terms used herein generally have the
same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this
invention belongs.
[0018]    As used in this specification and the appended claims, the singular forms "a", "an"
and "the" include plural referents unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. For
example, reference to "a cell" includes a combination of two or more cells, and the like.
[0019]    As used herein, the "administration" of an agent, drug, or peptide to a subject
includes any route of introducing or delivering to a subject a compound to perform its
intended function. Administration can be carried out by any suitable route, including orally,
intranasally, parenterally (intravenously, intramuscularly, intraperitoneally, or
subcutaneously), or topically. Administration includes self-administration and the
administration by another.
                                                 7

  WO 2013/155334                                                          PCT/US2013/036222
[0020]    As used herein, the term "amino acid" includes naturally-occurring amino acids
and synthetic amino acids, as well as amino acid analogs and amino acid mimetics that
function in a manner similar to the naturally-occurring amino acids. Naturally-occurring
amino acids are those encoded by the genetic code, as well as those amino acids that are
later modified, e.g., hydroxyproline, y-carboxyglutamate, and O-phosphoserine. Amino
acid analogs refers to compounds that have the same basic chemical structure as a naturally
occurring amino acid, i.e., an a-carbon that is bound to a hydrogen, a carboxyl group, an
amino group, and an R group, e.g., homoserine, norleucine, methionine sulfoxide,
methionine methyl sulfonium. Such analogs have modified R groups (e.g., norleucine) or
modified peptide backbones, but retain the same basic chemical structure as a naturally
occurring amino acid. Amino acid mimetics refers to chemical compounds that have a
structure that is different from the general chemical structure of an amino acid, but that
functions in a manner similar to a naturally-occurring amino acid. Amino acids can be
referred to herein by either their commonly known three letter symbols or by the one-letter
symbols recommended by the IUPAC-IUB Biochemical Nomenclature Commission.
[0021]    As used herein, the term "effective amount" refers to a quantity sufficient to
achieve a desired therapeutic and/or prophylactic effect. In the context of therapeutic or
prophylactic applications, the amount of a composition administered to the subject will
depend on the type and severity of the disease and on the characteristics of the individual,
such as general health, age, sex, body weight and tolerance to drugs. It will also depend on
the degree, severity and type of disease. The skilled artisan will be able to determine
appropriate dosages depending on these and other factors. The compositions can also be
administered in combination with one or more additional therapeutic compounds.
[0022]    An "isolated" or "purified" polypeptide or peptide is substantially free of cellular
material or other contaminating polypeptides from the cell or tissue source from which the
agent is derived, or substantially free from chemical precursors or other chemicals when
chemically synthesized. For example, an isolated aromatic-cationic peptide would be free
of materials that would interfere with diagnostic or therapeutic uses of the agent. Such
interfering materials may include enzymes, hormones and other proteinaceous and
nonproteinaceous solutes.
[0023]    As used herein, the terms "polypeptide", "peptide", and "protein" are used
interchangeably herein to mean a polymer comprising two or more amino acids joined to
                                                8

  WO 2013/155334                                                          PCT/US2013/036222
each other by peptide bonds or modified peptide bonds, i.e., peptide isosteres. Polypeptide
refers to both short chains, commonly referred to as peptides, glycopeptides or oligomers,
and to longer chains, generally referred to as proteins. Polypeptides may contain amino
acids other than the 20 gene-encoded amino acids. Polypeptides include amino acid
sequences modified either by natural processes, such as post-translational processing, or by
chemical modification techniques that are well known in the art.
[0024]    As used herein, the terms "treating" or "treatment" or "alleviation" refers to both
therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures, wherein the object is to
prevent or slow down (lessen) the targeted pathologic condition or disorder. It is also to be
appreciated that the various modes of treatment or prevention of medical conditions as
described are intended to mean "substantial", which includes total but also less than total
treatment or prevention, and wherein some biologically or medically relevant result is
achieved.
[0025]    As used herein, "prevention" or "preventing" of a disorder or condition refers to a
compound that, in a statistical sample, reduces the occurrence of the disorder or condition in
the treated sample relative to an untreated control sample, or delays the onset or reduces the
severity of one or more symptoms of the disorder or condition relative to the untreated
control sample.
Methods of Prevention or Treatment
[0026]    The present technology relates to the treatment or prevention of disease by
administration of certain aromatic-cationic peptides.
[0027]    The aromatic-cationic peptides are water-soluble and highly polar. Despite these
properties, the peptides can readily penetrate cell membranes. The aromatic-cationic
peptides typically include a minimum of two or three amino acids or a minimum of four
amino acids, covalently joined by peptide bonds. The maximum number of amino acids
present in the aromatic-cationic peptides is about twenty amino acids covalently joined by
peptide bonds. In some embodiments, the maximum number of amino acids is about
twelve, about nine, or about six.
[0028]    The amino acids of the aromatic-cationic peptides can be any amino acid. As used
herein, the term "amino acid" is used to refer to any organic molecule that contains at least
                                                9

  WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
one amino group and at least one carboxyl group. Typically, at least one amino group is at
the a position relative to a carboxyl group. The amino acids may be naturally occurring.
Naturally occurring amino acids include, for example, the twenty most common
levorotatory (L) amino acids normally found in mammalian proteins, i.e., alanine (Ala),
arginine (Arg), asparagine (Asn), aspartic acid (Asp), cysteine (Cys), glutamine (Gln),
glutamic acid (Glu), glycine (Gly), histidine (His), isoleucine (Ile), leucine (Leu), lysine
(Lys), methionine (Met), phenylalanine (Phe), proline (Pro), serine (Ser), threonine (Thr),
tryptophan, (Trp), tyrosine (Tyr), and valine (Val). Other naturally occurring amino acids
include, for example, amino acids that are synthesized in metabolic processes not associated
with protein synthesis. For example, the amino acids ornithine and citrulline are
synthesized in mammalian metabolism during the production of urea. Another example of a
naturally occurring amino acid includes hydroxyproline (Hyp).
[0029]    The peptides optionally contain one or more non-naturally occurring amino acids.
Optimally, the peptide has no amino acids that are naturally occurring. The non-naturally
occurring amino acids may be levorotary (L-), dextrorotatory (D-), or mixtures thereof.
Non-naturally occurring amino acids are those amino acids that typically are not
synthesized in normal metabolic processes in living organisms, and do not naturally occur
in proteins. In addition, the non-naturally occurring amino acids suitably are also not
recognized by common proteases. The non-naturally occurring amino acid can be present at
any position in the peptide. For example, the non-naturally occurring amino acid can be at
the N-terminus, the C-terminus, or at any position between the N-terminus and the C
terminus.
[0030]    The non-natural amino acids may, for example, comprise alkyl, aryl, or alkylaryl
groups not found in natural amino acids. Some examples of non-natural alkyl amino acids
include a-aminobutyric acid, 0-aminobutyric acid, y-aminobutyric acid, 6-aminovaleric
acid, and s-aminocaproic acid. Some examples of non-natural aryl amino acids include
ortho-, meta, and para-aminobenzoic acid. Some examples of non-natural alkylaryl amino
acids include ortho-, meta-, and para-aminophenylacetic acid, and y-phenyl-o-aminobutyric
acid. Non-naturally occurring amino acids include derivatives of naturally occurring amino
acids. The derivatives of naturally occurring amino acids may, for example, include the
addition of one or more chemical groups to the naturally occurring amino acid.
                                               10

  WO 2013/155334                                                             PCT/US2013/036222
[0031]      For example, one or more chemical groups can be added to one or more of the 2',
3', 4', 5', or 6' position of the aromatic ring of a phenylalanine or tyrosine residue, or the 4',
5', 6', or 7' position of the benzo ring of a tryptophan residue. The group can be any
chemical group that can be added to an aromatic ring. Some examples of such groups
include branched or unbranched C1 -C 4 alkyl, such as methyl, ethyl, n-propyl, isopropyl,
butyl, isobutyl, or t-butyl, CI-C 4 alkyloxy (i.e., alkoxy), amino, C 1-C 4 alkylamino and C1 -C 4
dialkylamino (e.g., methylamino, dimethylamino), nitro, hydroxyl, halo (i.e., fluoro, chloro,
bromo, or iodo). Some specific examples of non-naturally occurring derivatives of
naturally occurring amino acids include norvaline (Nva) and norleucine (Nle).
[0032]      Another example of a modification of an amino acid in a peptide is the
derivatization of a carboxyl group of an aspartic acid or a glutamic acid residue of the
peptide. One example of derivatization is amidation with ammonia or with a primary or
secondary amine, e.g. methylamine, ethylamine, dimethylamine or diethylamine. Another
example of derivatization includes esterification with, for example, methyl or ethyl alcohol.
Another such modification includes derivatization of an amino group of a lysine, arginine,
or histidine residue. For example, such amino groups can be acylated. Some suitable acyl
groups include, for example, a benzoyl group or an alkanoyl group comprising any of the
C1 -C4 alkyl groups mentioned above, such as an acetyl or propionyl group.
[0033]      The non-naturally occurring amino acids are preferably resistant, and more
preferably insensitive, to common proteases. Examples of non-naturally occurring amino
acids that are resistant or insensitive to proteases include the dextrorotatory (D-) form of any
of the above-mentioned naturally occurring L-amino acids, as well as L- and/or D- non
naturally occurring amino acids. The D-amino acids do not normally occur in proteins,
although they are found in certain peptide antibiotics that are synthesized by means other
than the normal ribosomal protein synthetic machinery of the cell. As used herein, the D
amino acids are considered to be non-naturally occurring amino acids.
[0034]      In order to minimize protease sensitivity, the peptides should have less than five,
preferably less than four, more preferably less than three, and most preferably, less than two
contiguous L-amino acids recognized by common proteases, irrespective of whether the
amino acids are naturally or non-naturally occurring. In some embodiments, the peptide has
only D-amino acids, and no L-amino acids. If the peptide contains protease sensitive
sequences of amino acids, at least one of the amino acids is preferably a non-naturally
                                                  11

  WO 2013/155334                                                          PCT/US2013/036222
occurring D-amino acid, thereby conferring protease resistance. An example of a protease
sensitive sequence includes two or more contiguous basic amino acids that are readily
cleaved by common proteases, such as endopeptidases and trypsin. Examples of basic
amino acids include arginine, lysine and histidine.
[0035]    The aromatic-cationic peptides should have a minimum number of net positive
charges at physiological pH in comparison to the total number of amino acid residues in the
peptide. The minimum number of net positive charges at physiological pH will be referred
to below as (pm). The total number of amino acid residues in the peptide will be referred to
below as (r). The minimum number of net positive charges discussed below are all at
physiological pH. The term "physiological pH" as used herein refers to the normal pH in
the cells of the tissues and organs of the mammalian body. For instance, the physiological
pH of a human is normally approximately 7.4, but normal physiological pH in mammals
may be any pH from about 7.0 to about 7.8.
[0036]    "Net charge" as used herein refers to the balance of the number of positive charges
and the number of negative charges carried by the amino acids present in the peptide. In
this specification, it is understood that net charges are measured at physiological pH. The
naturally occurring amino acids that are positively charged at physiological pH include L
lysine, L-arginine, and L-histidine. The naturally occurring amino acids that are negatively
charged at physiological pH include L-aspartic acid and L-glutamic acid.
[0037]    Typically, a peptide has a positively charged N-terminal amino group and a
negatively charged C-terminal carboxyl group. The charges cancel each other out at
physiological pH. As an example of calculating net charge, the peptide Tyr-Arg-Phe-Lys
Glu-His-Trp-D-Arg has one negatively charged amino acid (i.e., Glu) and four positively
charged amino acids (i.e., two Arg residues, one Lys, and one His). Therefore, the above
peptide has a net positive charge of three.
[0038]    In one embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptides have a relationship between the
minimum number of net positive charges at physiological pH (pm) and the total number of
amino acid residues (r) wherein 3 pm is the largest number that is less than or equal to r + 1.
In this embodiment, the relationship between the minimum number of net positive charges
(pm) and the total number of amino acid residues (r) is as follows:
                                                 12

  WO 2013/155334                                                            PCT/US2013/036222
           TABLE 1. Amino acid number and net positive charges ( 3 pm p+1)
      (r)     3   4   5  6   7   8    9  10  11    12   13   14  15   16    17   18   19   20
     (pm) 1       1   2  2   2   3    3   3   4    4    4    5    5    5    6    6    6     7
[0039]    In another embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptides have a relationship between
the minimum number of net positive charges (pm) and the total number of amino acid
residues (r) wherein 2 pm is the largest number that is less than or equal to r + 1. In this
embodiment, the relationship between the minimum number of net positive charges (pm)
and the total number of amino acid residues (r) is as follows:
           TABLE 2. Amino acid number and net positive charges ( 2 pm p+1)
      (r)     3   4   5  6   7   8    9  10  11    12   13   14  15   16    17   18   19   20
     (pm)    2    2   3  3   4   4    5   5   6    6    7    7    8    8    9    9    10   10
[0040]    In one embodiment, the minimum number of net positive charges (pm) and the total
number of amino acid residues (r) are equal. In another embodiment, the peptides have
three or four amino acid residues and a minimum of one net positive charge, suitably, a
minimum of two net positive charges and more preferably a minimum of three net positive
charges.
[0041]    It is also important that the aromatic-cationic peptides have a minimum number of
aromatic groups in comparison to the total number of net positive charges (pt). The
minimum number of aromatic groups will be referred to below as (a). Naturally occurring
amino acids that have an aromatic group include the amino acids histidine, tryptophan,
tyrosine, and phenylalanine. For example, the hexapeptide Lys-Gln-Tyr-D-Arg-Phe-Trp has
a net positive charge of two (contributed by the lysine and arginine residues) and three
aromatic groups (contributed by tyrosine, phenylalanine and tryptophan residues).
[0042]    The aromatic-cationic peptides should also have a relationship between the
minimum number of aromatic groups (a) and the total number of net positive charges at
physiological pH (pt) wherein 3a is the largest number that is less than or equal to pt + 1,
except that when pt is 1, a may also be 1. In this embodiment, the relationship between the
minimum number of aromatic groups (a) and the total number of net positive charges (pt) is
as follows:
                                                13

  WO 2013/155334                                                            PCT/US2013/036222
       TABLE 3. Aromatic groups and net positive charges (3a < pt+1 or a= pt=1)
  (pt)   1 2     3   4   5   6   7   8  9    10  11   12   13  14    15   16   17   18  19  20
   (a)   1    1 1     1  2   2   2   3  3     3  4    4    4    5    5     5    6    6  6    7
[0043]     In another embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptides have a relationship between
the minimum number of aromatic groups (a) and the total number of net positive charges
(p') wherein 2a is the largest number that is less than or equal to pt + 1. In this embodiment,
the relationship between the minimum number of aromatic amino acid residues (a) and the
total number of net positive charges (pr) is as follows:
       TABLE 4. Aromatic groups and net positive charges (2a < pt+1 or a= pt=1)
  (pt)   1 2     3   4   5   6   7   8  9    10  11   12   13  14    15   16   17   18  19  20
   (a)   1    1 2    2   3   3   4   4  5     5  6    6    7    7    8     8    9    9  10   10
[0044]     In another embodiment, the number of aromatic groups (a) and the total number of
net positive charges (p1 ) are equal. In one embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptide may
have
        (a) at least one net positive charge;
        (b) a minimum of three amino acids;
        (c) a maximum of about twenty amino acids;
        (d) a relationship between the minimum number of net positive charges (Pm) and the
total number of amino acid residues (r) wherein 3 pm is the largest number that is less than or
equal to r + 1; and
        (e) a relationship between the minimum number of aromatic groups (a) and the total
number of net positive charges (p1) wherein 3a is the largest number that is less than or
equal to pt + 1, except that when a is 1, pt may also be 1.
[0045]     Carboxyl groups, especially the terminal carboxyl group of a C-terminal amino
acid, are suitably amidated with, for example, ammonia to form the C-terminal amide.
Alternatively, the terminal carboxyl group of the C-terminal amino acid may be amidated
with any primary or secondary amine. The primary or secondary amine may, for example,
be an alkyl, especially a branched or unbranched C1-C4 alkyl, or an aryl amine.
Accordingly, the amino acid at the C-terminus of the peptide may be converted to an amido,
N-methylamido, N-ethylamido, N,N-dimethylamido, N,N-diethylamido, N-methyl-N
                                                14

  WO 2013/155334                                                          PCT/US2013/036222
ethylamido, N-phenylamido or N-phenyl-N-ethylamido group. The free carboxylate groups
of the asparagine, glutamine, aspartic acid, and glutamic acid residues not occurring at the
C-terminus of the aromatic-cationic peptides may also be amidated wherever they occur
within the peptide. The amidation at these internal positions may be with ammonia or any
of the primary or secondary amines described above.
[0046]    Aromatic-cationic peptides include, but are not limited to, the following exemplary
peptides:
                       D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2
                       D-Arg-D-Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Dmt- D-Lys-Phe-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Dmt-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2
                       D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2
                       Phe-D-Arg-D-Phe-Lys-NH 2
                       Phe-D-Arg-Phe-D-Lys-NH 2
                       D-Phe-D-Arg-D-Phe-D-Lys-NH 2
                       Lys-D-Phe-Arg-Dmt-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Arg-Dmt-Phe-NH 2
                       Dmt-D-Phe -Arg-Lys-NH 2
                       Phe-D-Dmt-Arg-Lys-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Dmt-Lys-NH 2
                       Arg-D-Dmt-Lys-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Dmt-Phe-NH 2
                       Arg-D-Dmt-Arg-NH 2
                       Dmt-D-Arg-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Dmt-NH 2
                       D-Dmt-Arg-NH 2
                       Arg-D-Dmt-NH 2
                       D-Arg-D-Dmt-NH 2
                       D-Arg-D-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Tyr- D-Lys-Phe-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2
                       D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2
                       Lys-D-Phe-Arg-Tyr-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Arg-Tyr-Phe-NH 2
                       Tyr-D-Phe-Arg-Lys-NH 2
                       Phe-D-Tyr-Arg-Lys-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-NH 2
                       Arg-D-Tyr-Lys-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Tyr-Phe-NH 2
                       Arg-D-Tyr-Arg-NH 2
                       Tyr-D-Arg-NH 2
                       D-Arg-Tyr-NH 2
                       D-Tyr-Arg-NH 2
                       Arg-D-Tyr-NH 2
                       D-Arg-D-Tyr-NH 2
                                               15

  WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
                        Dmt-Lys-Phe-NH 2
                        Lys-Dmt-D-Arg-NH 2
                        Phe-Lys-Dmt-NH 2
                        D-Arg-Phe-Lys-NH 2
                        D-Arg-Cha-Lys-NH 2
                        D-Arg-Trp-Lys-NH 2
                        Dmt-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2
                        Dmt-Lys-NH 2
                        Lys-Phe-NH 2
                        D-Arg-Cha-Lys-Cha-NH 2
                        D-Nle-Dmt-Ahe-Phe-NH 2
                        D-Nle-Cha-Ahe-Cha-NH 2
wherein Cha is cyclohexylalanine, Nle is norleucine, and Ahe is 2-amino-heptanoic acid.
[0047]    In one embodiment, the peptides have mu-opioid receptor agonist activity (i.e.,
they activate the mu-opioid receptor). Mu-opioid activity can be assessed by radioligand
binding to cloned mu-opioid receptors or by bioassays using the guinea pig ileum (Schiller
et al., Eur JMed Chem, 35:895-901, 2000; Zhao et al., JPharmacolExp Ther, 307:947
954, 2003). Activation of the mu-opioid receptor typically elicits an analgesic effect. In
certain instances, an aromatic-cationic peptide having mu-opioid receptor agonist activity is
preferred. For example, during short-term treatment, such as in an acute disease or
condition, it may be beneficial to use an aromatic-cationic peptide that activates the mu
opioid receptor. Such acute diseases and conditions are often associated with moderate or
severe pain. In these instances, the analgesic effect of the aromatic-cationic peptide may be
beneficial in the treatment regimen of the human patient or other mammal. An aromatic
cationic peptide which does not activate the mu-opioid receptor, however, may also be used
with or without an analgesic, according to clinical requirements. Peptides which have mu
opioid receptor agonist activity are typically those peptides which have a tyrosine residue or
a tyrosine derivative at the N-terminus (i.e., the first amino acid position).
[0048]    Alternatively, in other instances, an aromatic-cationic peptide that does not have
mu-opioid receptor agonist activity is preferred. For example, during long-term treatment,
such as in a chronic disease state or condition, the use of an aromatic-cationic peptide that
activates the mu-opioid receptor may be contraindicated. In these instances, the potentially
adverse or addictive effects of the aromatic-cationic peptide may preclude the use of an
aromatic-cationic peptide that activates the mu-opioid receptor in the treatment regimen of a
human patient or other mammal. Potential adverse effects may include sedation,
constipation and respiratory depression. In such instances an aromatic-cationic peptide that
                                                16

  WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
does not activate the mu-opioid receptor may be an appropriate treatment. Peptides that do
not have mu-opioid receptor agonist activity generally do not have a tyrosine residue or a
derivative of tyrosine at the N-terminus (i.e., amino acid position 1). The amino acid at the
N-terminus can be any naturally occurring or non-naturally occurring amino acid other than
tyrosine. In one embodiment, the amino acid at the N-terminus is phenylalanine or its
derivative. Exemplary derivatives of phenylalanine include 2'-methylphenylalanine (Mmp),
2',6'-dimethylphenylalanine (2',6'-Dmp), N,2',6'-trimethylphenylalanine (Tmp), and 2'
hydroxy-6'-methylphenylalanine (Hmp).
[0049]     The peptides mentioned herein and their derivatives can further include functional
variants. A peptide is considered a functional variant if the variant has the same function as
the stated peptide. The analog may, for example, be a substitution variant of a peptide,
wherein one or more amino acids are substituted by another amino acid. In some
embodiments, substitution variants of the peptides include conservative amino acid
substitutions. Amino acids may be grouped according to their physicochemical
characteristics as follows:
         (a)    Non-polar amino acids: Ala(A) Ser(S) Thr(T) Pro(P) Gly(G) Cys (C);
         (b)    Acidic amino acids: Asn(N) Asp(D) Glu(E) Gln(Q);
         (c)    Basic amino acids: His(H) Arg(R) Lys(K);
         (d)    Hydrophobic amino acids: Met(M) Leu(L) Ile(I) Val(V); and
         (e)    Aromatic amino acids: Phe(F) Tyr(Y) Trp(W) His (H).
[0050]     Substitutions of an amino acid in a peptide by another amino acid in the same
group is referred to as a conservative substitution and may preserve the physicochemical
characteristics of the original peptide. In contrast, substitutions of an amino acid in a
peptide by another amino acid in a different group is generally more likely to alter the
characteristics of the original peptide.
[0051]     The peptides may be synthesized by any of the methods well known in the art.
Suitable methods for chemically synthesizing the protein include, for example, those
described by Stuart and Young in Solid PhasePeptide Synthesis, Second Edition, Pierce
Chemical Company (1984), and in Methods Enzymol., 289, Academic Press, Inc, New York
(1997).
                                                17

  WO 2013/155334                                                            PCT/US2013/036222
Prophylactic and Therapeutic Uses of Aromatic-Cationic Peptides.
[0052]    The aromatic-cationic peptides described herein are useful to prevent or treat
disease. Specifically, the disclosure provides for both prophylactic and therapeutic methods
of treating a subject at risk of (or susceptible to) disease by administering the aromatic
cationic peptides described herein. Accordingly, the present methods provide for the
prevention and/or treatment of disease in a subject by administering an effective amount of
an aromatic-cationic peptide to a subject in need thereof.
[0053]    In one embodiment, the peptides described above are useful in treating any disease
or condition that is associated with mitochondrial permeability transition (MPT). Reducing
the number of mitochondria undergoing, and preventing, MPT is important, since MPT is
associated with several common diseases and conditions in mammals. Such diseases and
conditions include, but are not limited to, ischemia and/or reperfusion of a tissue or organ,
hypoxia, neurodegenerative diseases, etc. Mammals in need of treatment or prevention of
MPT are those mammals suffering from these diseases or conditions.
[0054]    Ischemia in a tissue or organ of a mammal is a multifaceted pathological condition
which is caused by oxygen deprivation (hypoxia) and/or glucose (e.g., substrate)
deprivation. Oxygen and/or glucose deprivation in cells of a tissue or organ leads to a
reduction or total loss of energy generating capacity and consequent loss of function of
active ion transport across the cell membranes. Oxygen and/or glucose deprivation also
leads to pathological changes in other cell membranes, including permeability transition in
the mitochondrial membranes. In addition other molecules, such as apoptotic proteins
normally compartmentalized within the mitochondria, may leak out into the cytoplasm and
cause apoptotic cell death. Profound ischemia can lead to necrotic cell death. Ischemia or
hypoxia in a particular tissue or organ may be caused by a loss or severe reduction in blood
supply to the tissue or organ. The loss or severe reduction in blood supply may, for
example, be due to thromboembolic stroke, coronary atherosclerosis, or peripheral vascular
disease. The tissue affected by ischemia or hypoxia is typically muscle, such as cardiac,
skeletal, or smooth muscle. The organ affected by ischemia or hypoxia may be any organ
that is subject to ischemia or hypoxia. Examples of organs affected by ischemia or hypoxia
include brain, heart, kidney, and prostate. For instance, cardiac muscle ischemia or hypoxia
is commonly caused by atherosclerotic or thrombotic blockages which lead to the reduction
or loss of oxygen delivery to the cardiac tissues by the cardiac arterial and capillary blood
                                                 18

  WO 2013/155334                                                          PCT/US2013/036222
supply. Such cardiac ischemia or hypoxia may cause pain and necrosis of the affected
cardiac muscle, and ultimately may lead to cardiac failure. Ischemia or hypoxia in skeletal
muscle or smooth muscle may arise from similar causes. For example, ischemia or hypoxia
in intestinal smooth muscle or skeletal muscle of the limbs may also be caused by
atherosclerotic or thrombotic blockages.
[0055]    Reperfusion is the restoration of blood flow to any organ or tissue in which the
flow of blood is decreased or blocked. For example, blood flow can be restored to any
organ or tissue affected by ischemia or hypoxia. The restoration of blood flow (reperfusion)
can occur by any method known to those in the art. For instance, reperfusion of ischemic
cardiac tissues may arise from angioplasty, coronary artery bypass graft, or the use of
thrombolytic drugs.
[0056]    The methods described herein can also be used in the treatment or prophylaxis of
neurodegenerative diseases associated with MPT. Neurodegenerative diseases associated
with MPT include, for instance, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's
disease and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS, also known as Lou Gherig's disease). The
methods disclosed herein can be used to delay the onset or slow the progression of these and
other neurodegenerative diseases associated with MPT. The methods disclosed herein are
particularly useful in the treatment of humans suffering from the early stages of
neurodegenerative diseases associated with MPT and in humans predisposed to these
diseases.
[0057]    The aromatic-cationic peptides described above are also useful in preventing or
treating insulin resistance, metabolic syndrome, bum injuries and secondary complications,
heart failure, diabetic complications (such as diabetic retinopathy), ophthalmic conditions
(such as choroidal neovascularization, retinal degeneration, and oxygen-induced
retinopathy).
[0058]    The aromatic-cationic peptides described above are also useful in reducing
oxidative damage in a mammal in need thereof. Mammals in need of reducing oxidative
damage are those mammals suffering from a disease, condition or treatment associated with
oxidative damage. Typically, the oxidative damage is caused by free radicals, such as
reactive oxygen species (ROS) and/or reactive nitrogen species (RNS). Examples of ROS
and RNS include hydroxyl radical (HO-), superoxide anion radical (02), nitric oxide (NO-),
                                               19

  WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
hydrogen peroxide (H 2 0 2 ), hypochlorous acid (HOCI) and peroxynitrite anion (ONOO-). In
one embodiment, a mammal in need thereof may be a mammal undergoing a treatment
associated with oxidative damage. For example, the mammal may be undergoing
reperfusion, ischemia, or hypoxia.
[0059]    In another embodiment, the aromatic-cationic peptides can be used to prevent lipid
peroxidation and/or inflammatory processes that are associated with oxidative damage for a
disease or condition. Lipid peroxidation refers to oxidative modification of lipids. The
lipids can be present in the membrane of a cell. This modification of membrane lipids
typically results in change and/or damage to the membrane function of a cell. In addition,
lipid peroxidation can also occur in lipids or lipoproteins exogenous of a cell. For example,
low-density lipoproteins are susceptible to lipid peroxidation. An example of a condition
associated with lipid peroxidation is atherosclerosis. Reducing oxidative damage associated
with atherosclerosis is important since atherosclerosis is implicated in, for example, heart
attacks and coronary artery disease.
[0060]    Inflammatory processes include and activation of the immune system. Typically,
the immune system is activated by an antigenic substance. The antigenic substance can be
any substance recognized by the immune system, and include self-derived particles and
foreign-derived particles. Examples of diseases or conditions occurring from an
inflammatory process to self-derived particles include arthritis and multiple sclerosis.
Examples of foreign particles include viruses and bacteria. The virus can be any virus
which activates an inflammatory process, and associated with oxidative damage. Examples
of viruses include, hepatitis A, B or C virus, human immunodeficiency virus, influenza
virus, and bovine diarrhea virus. For example, hepatitis virus can elicit an inflammatory
process and formation of free radicals, thereby damaging the liver. The bacteria can be any
bacteria, and include gram-negative or gram-positive bacteria. Gram-negative bacteria
contain lipopolysaccharide in the bacteria wall. Examples of gram-negative bacteria
include Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus species, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Serratia, and Bacteroides. Examples of gram-positive bacteria include pneumococci and
streptococci. An example of an inflammatory process associated with oxidative stress
caused by a bacteria is sepsis. Typically, sepsis occurs when gram-negative bacteria enter
the bloodstream.
                                               20

   WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
[0061]     Liver damage caused by a toxic agent is another condition associated with an
inflammatory process and oxidative stress. The toxic agent can be any agent which causes
damage to the liver. For example, the toxic agent can cause apoptosis and/or necrosis of
liver cells. Examples of such agents include alcohol, and medication, such as prescription
and non-prescription drugs taken to treat a disease or condition.
[0062]     The methods disclosed herein can also be used in reducing oxidative damage
associated with any neurodegenerative disease or condition. The neurodegenerative disease
can affect any cell, tissue or organ of the central and peripheral nervous system. Examples
of such cells, tissues and organs include, the brain, spinal cord, neurons, ganglia, Schwann
cells, astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and microglia. The neurodegenerative condition can be
an acute condition, such as a stroke or a traumatic brain or spinal cord injury. In another
embodiment, the neurodegenerative disease or condition can be a chronic neurodegenerative
condition. In a chronic neurodegenerative condition, the free radicals can, for example,
cause damage to a protein. An example of such a protein is amyloid .beta.-protein.
Examples of chronic neurodegenerative diseases associated with damage by free radicals
include Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease and Amyotrophic
Lateral Sclerosis (also known as Lou Gherig's disease).
[0063]     Determination of the BiologicalEffect of the Aromatic-CationicPeptide-Based
Therapeutic. In various embodiments, suitable in vitro or in vivo assays are performed to
determine the effect of a specific aromatic-cationic peptide-based therapeutic and whether
its administration is indicated for treatment. In various embodiments, in vitro assays can be
performed with representative animal models, to determine if a given aromatic-cationic
peptide-based therapeutic exerts the desired effect in preventing or treating a disease or
medical condition. Compounds for use in therapy can be tested in suitable animal model
systems including, but not limited to rats, mice, chicken, pigs, cows, monkeys, rabbits, and
the like, prior to testing in human subjects. Similarly, for in vivo testing, any of the animal
model systems known in the art can be used prior to administration to human subjects.
[0064]     ProphylacticMethods. In one aspect, the invention provides a method for
preventing, in a subject, disease by administering to the subject an aromatic-cationic peptide
that prevents the initiation or progression of the condition. In prophylactic applications,
pharmaceutical compositions or medicaments of aromatic-cationic peptides are
administered to a subject susceptible to, or otherwise at risk of a disease or condition in an
                                                21

   WO 2013/155334                                                          PCT/US2013/036222
amount sufficient to eliminate or reduce the risk, lessen the severity, or delay the outset of
the disease, including biochemical, histologic and/or behavioral symptoms of the disease, its
complications and intermediate pathological phenotypes presenting during development of
the disease. Administration of a prophylactic aromatic-cationic can occur prior to the
manifestation of symptoms characteristic of the aberrancy, such that a disease or disorder is
prevented or, alternatively, delayed in its progression. The appropriate compound can be
determined based on screening assays described above.
[0065]    Therapeutic Methods. Another aspect of the technology includes methods of
treating disease in a subject for therapeutic purposes. In therapeutic applications,
compositions or medicaments are administered to a subject suspected of, or already
suffering from such a disease in an amount sufficient to cure, or at least partially arrest, the
symptoms of the disease, including its complications and intermediate pathological
phenotypes in development of the disease. As such, the invention provides methods of
treating an individual afflicted with a disease or medical condition.
Modes of Administration and Effective Dosages
[0066]    Any method known to those in the art for contacting a cell, organ or tissue with a
peptide may be employed. In some embodiments, methods include in vitro, ex vivo, or in
vivo methods. In vivo methods typically include the administration of an aromatic-cationic
peptide, such as those described above, to a mammal, suitably a human. When used in vivo
for therapy, the aromatic-cationic peptides are administered to the subject in effective
amounts (i.e., amounts that have desired therapeutic effect). The dose and dosage regimen
will depend upon the degree of the injury in the subject, the characteristics of the particular
aromatic-cationic peptide used, e.g., its therapeutic index, the subject, and the subject's
history.
[0067]    The effective amount may be determined during pre-clinical trials and clinical
trials by methods familiar to physicians and clinicians. An effective amount of a peptide
useful in the methods may be administered to a mammal in need thereof by any of a number
of well-known methods for administering pharmaceutical compounds. The peptide may be
administered systemically or locally.
[0068]    The peptide may be formulated as a pharmaceutically acceptable salt. The term
"pharmaceutically acceptable salt" means a salt prepared from a base or an acid which is
                                               22

   WO 2013/155334                                                              PCT/US2013/036222
acceptable for administration to a patient, such as a mammal (e.g., salts having acceptable
mammalian safety for a given dosage regime). However, it is understood that the salts are
not required to be pharmaceutically acceptable salts, such as salts of intermediate
compounds that are not intended for administration to a patient. Pharmaceutically
acceptable salts can be derived from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic bases
and from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic or organic acids. In addition, when a
peptide contains both a basic moiety, such as an amine, pyridine or imidazole, and an acidic
moiety such as a carboxylic acid or tetrazole, zwitterions may be formed and are included
within the term "salt" as used herein. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable
inorganic bases include ammonium, calcium, copper, ferric, ferrous, lithium, magnesium,
manganic, manganous, potassium, sodium, and zinc salts, and the like. Salts derived from
pharmaceutically acceptable organic bases include salts of primary, secondary and tertiary
amines, including substituted amines, cyclic amines, naturally-occurring amines and the
like, such as arginine, betaine, caffeine, choline, N,N'-dibenzylethylenediamine,
diethylamine, 2-diethylaminoethanol, 2-dimethylaminoethanol, ethanolamine,
ethylenediamine, N-ethylmorpholine, N-ethylpiperidine, glucamine, glucosamine, histidine,
hydrabamine, isopropylamine, lysine, methylglucamine, morpholine, piperazine, piperadine,
polyamine resins, procaine, purines, theobromine, triethylamine, trimethylamine,
tripropylamine, tromethamine and the like. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable
inorganic acids include salts of boric, carbonic, hydrohalic (hydrobromic, hydrochloric,
hydrofluoric or hydroiodic), nitric, phosphoric, sulfamic and sulfuric acids. Salts derived
from pharmaceutically acceptable organic acids include salts of aliphatic hydroxyl acids
(e.g., citric, gluconic, glycolic, lactic, lactobionic, malic, and tartaric acids), aliphatic
monocarboxylic acids (e.g., acetic, butyric, formic, propionic and trifluoroacetic acids),
amino acids (e.g., aspartic and glutamic acids), aromatic carboxylic acids (e.g., benzoic, p
chlorobenzoic, diphenylacetic, gentisic, hippuric, and triphenylacetic acids), aromatic
hydroxyl acids (e.g., o-hydroxybenzoic, p-hydroxybenzoic, 1-hydroxynaphthalene-2
carboxylic and 3-hydroxynaphthalene-2-carboxylic acids), ascorbic, dicarboxylic acids
(e.g., fumaric, maleic, oxalic and succinic acids), glucoronic, mandelic, mucic, nicotinic,
orotic, pamoic, pantothenic, sulfonic acids (e.g., benzenesulfonic, camphosulfonic, edisylic,
ethanesulfonic, isethionic, methanesulfonic, naphthalenesulfonic, naphthalene- 1,5
disulfonic, naphthalene-2,6-disulfonic and p-toluenesulfonic acids), xinafoic acid, and the
like. In some embodiments, the salt is an acetate salt. Additionally or alternatively, in some
embodiments, the salt is a trifluoroacetate salt.
                                                  23

  WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
[0069]     The aromatic-cationic peptides described herein can be incorporated into
pharmaceutical compositions for administration, singly or in combination, to a subject for
the treatment or prevention of a disease or medical condition described herein. Such
compositions typically include the active agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
As used herein the term "pharmaceutically acceptable carrier" includes saline, solvents,
dispersion media, coatings, antibacterial and antifungal agents, isotonic and absorption
delaying agents, and the like, compatible with pharmaceutical administration.
Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.
[0070]     Pharmaceutical compositions are typically formulated to be compatible with its
intended route of administration. Examples of routes of administration include parenteral
(e.g., intravenous, intradermal, intraperitoneal or subcutaneous), oral, inhalation,
transdermal (topical), intraocular, iontophoretic, and transmucosal administration.
Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral, intradermal, or subcutaneous application can
include the following components: a sterile diluent such as water for injection, saline
solution, fixed oils, polyethylene glycols, glycerine, propylene glycol or other synthetic
solvents; antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens; antioxidants such
as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite; chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic
acid; buffers such as acetates, citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of
tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases, such
as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in
ampoules, disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. For
convenience of the patient or treating physician, the dosing formulation can be provided in a
kit containing all necessary equipment (e.g., vials of drug, vials of diluent, syringes and
needles) for a treatment course (e.g., 7 days of treatment).
[0071]     Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use can include sterile aqueous
solutions (where water soluble) or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous
preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous administration,
suitable carriers include physiological saline, bacteriostatic water, Cremophor    ELTM  (BASF,
Parsippany, N.J.) or phosphate buffered saline (PBS). In all cases, a composition for
parenteral administration must be sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy
syringability exists. It should be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and
                                                24

  WO 2013/155334                                                            PCT/US2013/036222
must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and
fungi.
[0072]    The aromatic-cationic peptide compositions can include a carrier, which can be a
solvent or dispersion medium containing, for example, water, ethanol, polyol (for example,
glycerol, propylene glycol, and liquid polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable
mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use of a
coating such as lecithin, by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of
dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be
achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents, for example, parabens,
chlorobutanol, phenol, ascorbic acid, thiomerasol, and the like. Glutathione and other
antioxidants can be included to prevent oxidation. In many cases, it will be preferable to
include isotonic agents, for example, sugars, polyalcohols such as mannitol, sorbitol, or
sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions
can be brought about by including in the composition an agent which delays absorption, for
example, aluminum monostearate or gelatin.
[0073]    Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound
in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients
enumerated above, as required, followed by filtered sterilization. Generally, dispersions are
prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle, which contains a basic
dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the
case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions, typical methods of
preparation include vacuum drying and freeze drying, which can yield a powder of the
active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile-filtered
solution thereof.
[0074]    Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. For the
purpose of oral therapeutic administration, the active compound can be incorporated with
excipients and used in the form of tablets, troches, or capsules, e.g., gelatin capsules. Oral
compositions can also be prepared using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash.
Pharmaceutically compatible binding agents, and/or adjuvant materials can be included as
part of the composition. The tablets, pills, capsules, troches and the like can contain any of
the following ingredients, or compounds of a similar nature: a binder such as
microcrystalline cellulose, gum tragacanth or gelatin; an excipient such as starch or lactose,
                                                25

  WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
a disintegrating agent such as alginic acid, Primogel, or corn starch; a lubricant such as
magnesium stearate or Sterotes; a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide; a sweetening
agent such as sucrose or saccharin; or a flavoring agent such as peppermint, methyl
salicylate, or orange flavoring.
[0075]    For administration by inhalation, the compounds can be delivered in the form of an
aerosol spray from a pressurized container or dispenser which contains a suitable propellant,
e.g., a gas such as carbon dioxide, or a nebulizer. Such methods include those described in
U.S. Pat. No. 6,468,798.
[0076]     Systemic administration of a therapeutic compound as described herein can also be
by transmucosal or transdermal means. For transmucosal or transdermal administration,
penetrants appropriate to the barrier to be permeated are used in the formulation. Such
penetrants are generally known in the art, and include, for example, for transmucosal
administration, detergents, bile salts, and fusidic acid derivatives. Transmucosal
administration can be accomplished through the use of nasal sprays. For transdermal
administration, the active compounds are formulated into ointments, salves, gels, or creams
as generally known in the art. In one embodiment, transdermal administration may be
performed my iontophoresis.
[0077]    A therapeutic peptide can be formulated in a carrier system. The carrier can be a
colloidal system. The colloidal system can be a liposome, a phospholipid bilayer vehicle.
In one embodiment, the therapeutic peptide is encapsulated in a liposome while maintaining
peptide integrity. As one skilled in the art would appreciate, there are a variety of methods
to prepare liposomes. (See Lichtenberg et al., Methods Biochem. Anal., 33:337-462 (1988);
Anselem et al., Liposome Technology, CRC Press (1993)). Liposomal formulations can
delay clearance and increase cellular uptake (See Reddy, Ann. Pharmacother.,34(7-8):915
923 (2000)). An active agent can also be loaded into a particle prepared from
pharmaceutically acceptable ingredients including, but not limited to, soluble, insoluble,
permeable, impermeable, biodegradable or gastroretentive polymers or liposomes. Such
particles include, but are not limited to, nanoparticles, biodegradable nanoparticles,
microparticles, biodegradable microparticles, nanospheres, biodegradable nanospheres,
microspheres, biodegradable microspheres, capsules, emulsions, liposomes, micelles and
viral vector systems.
                                                26

  WO 2013/155334                                                          PCT/US2013/036222
[0078]    The carrier can also be a polymer, e.g., a biodegradable, biocompatible polymer
matrix. In one embodiment, the therapeutic peptide can be embedded in the polymer
matrix, while maintaining protein integrity. The polymer may be natural, such as
polypeptides, proteins or polysaccharides, or synthetic, such as poly a-hydroxy acids.
Examples include carriers made of, e.g., collagen, fibronectin, elastin, cellulose acetate,
cellulose nitrate, polysaccharide, fibrin, gelatin, and combinations thereof. In one
embodiment, the polymer is poly-lactic acid (PLA) or copoly lactic/glycolic acid (PGLA).
The polymeric matrices can be prepared and isolated in a variety of forms and sizes,
including microspheres and nanospheres. Polymer formulations can lead to prolonged
duration of therapeutic effect (see Reddy, Ann. Pharmacother.,34(7-8):915-923 (2000)). A
polymer formulation for human growth hormone (hGH) has been used in clinical trials.
(See Kozarich and Rich, Chemical Biology, 2:548-552 (1998)).
[0079]    Examples of polymer microsphere sustained release formulations are described in
PCT publication WO 99/15154 (Tracy et al.), U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,674,534 and 5,716,644 (both
to Zale et al.), PCT publication WO 96/40073 (Zale et al.), and PCT publication WO
00/38651 (Shah et al.). U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,674,534 and 5,716,644 and PCT publication WO
96/40073 describe a polymeric matrix containing particles of erythropoietin that are
stabilized against aggregation with a salt.
[0080]    In some embodiments, the therapeutic compounds are prepared with carriers that
will protect the therapeutic compounds against rapid elimination from the body, such as a
controlled release formulation, including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems.
Biodegradable, biocompatible polymers can be used, such as ethylene vinyl acetate,
polyanhydrides, polyglycolic acid, collagen, polyorthoesters, and polylacetic acid. Such
formulations can be prepared using known techniques. The materials can also be obtained
commercially, e.g., from Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Liposomal
suspensions (including liposomes targeted to specific cells with monoclonal antibodies to
cell-specific antigens) can also be used as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. These can
be prepared according to methods known to those skilled in the art, for example, as
described in U.S. Pat. No. 4,522,811.
[0081]    The therapeutic compounds can also be formulated to enhance intracellular
delivery. For example, liposomal delivery systems are known in the art, see, e.g., Chonn
and Cullis, "Recent Advances in Liposome Drug Delivery Systems," Current Opinion in
                                                27

  WO 2013/155334                                                          PCT/US2013/036222
Biotechnology 6:698-708 (1995); Weiner, "Liposomes for Protein Delivery: Selecting
Manufacture and Development Processes," Immunomethods, 4(3):201-9 (1994); and
Gregoriadis, "Engineering Liposomes for Drug Delivery: Progress and Problems," Trends
Biotechnol., 13(12):527-37 (1995). Mizguchi et al., Cancer Lett., 100:63-69 (1996),
describes the use of fusogenic liposomes to deliver a protein to cells both in vivo and in
vitro.
[0082]     Dosage, toxicity and therapeutic efficacy of the therapeutic agents can be
determined by standard pharmaceutical procedures in cell cultures or experimental animals,
e.g., for determining the LD50 (the dose lethal to 50% of the population) and the ED50 (the
dose therapeutically effective in 50% of the population). The dose ratio between toxic and
therapeutic effects is the therapeutic index and it can be expressed as the ratio LD50/ED50.
Compounds which exhibit high therapeutic indices are preferred. While compounds that
exhibit toxic side effects may be used, care should be taken to design a delivery system that
targets such compounds to the site of affected tissue in order to minimize potential damage
to uninfected cells and, thereby, reduce side effects.
[0083]     The data obtained from the cell culture assays and animal studies can be used in
formulating a range of dosage for use in humans. The dosage of such compounds lies
preferably within a range of circulating concentrations that include the ED50 with little or
no toxicity. The dosage may vary within this range depending upon the dosage form
employed and the route of administration utilized. For any compound used in the methods,
the therapeutically effective dose can be estimated initially from cell culture assays. A dose
can be formulated in animal models to achieve a circulating plasma concentration range that
includes the IC50 (i.e., the concentration of the test compound which achieves a half
maximal inhibition of symptoms) as determined in cell culture. Such information can be
used to more accurately determine useful doses in humans. Levels in plasma may be
measured, for example, by high performance liquid chromatography.
[0084]     Typically, an effective amount of the aromatic-cationic peptides, sufficient for
achieving a therapeutic or prophylactic effect, range from about 0.00000 1 mg per kilogram
body weight per day to about 10,000 mg per kilogram body weight per day. In some
embodiments, the dosage ranges are from about 0.0001 mg per kilogram body weight per
day to about 100 mg per kilogram body weight per day. For example dosages can be 1
mg/kg body weight or 10 mg/kg body weight every day, every two days or every three days
                                               28

  WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
or within the range of 1-10 mg/kg every week, every two weeks or every three weeks. In
one embodiment, a single dosage of peptide ranges from 0.1-10,000 micrograms per kg
body weight. In one embodiment, aromatic-cationic peptide concentrations in a carrier
range from 0.2 to 2000 micrograms per delivered milliliter. An exemplary treatment regime
entails administration once per day or once a week. In therapeutic applications, a relatively
high dosage at relatively short intervals is sometimes required until progression of the
disease is reduced or terminated, and preferably until the subject shows partial or complete
amelioration of symptoms of disease. Thereafter, the patient can be administered a
prophylactic regime.
[0085]     In some embodiments, a therapeutically effective amount of an aromatic-cationic
peptide may be defined as a concentration of peptide at the target tissue of 10-11 to 10-6
molar, e.g., approximately 10-7 molar. This concentration may be delivered by systemic
doses of 0.01 to 100 mg/kg or equivalent dose by body surface area. The schedule of doses
would be optimized to maintain the therapeutic concentration at the target tissue, most
preferably by single daily or weekly administration, but also including continuous
administration (e.g., parenteral infusion or transdermal application).
[0086]    The skilled artisan will appreciate that certain factors may influence the dosage
and timing required to effectively treat a subject, including but not limited to, the severity of
the disease or disorder, previous treatments, the general health and/or age of the subject, and
other diseases present. Moreover, treatment of a subject with a therapeutically effective
amount of the therapeutic compositions described herein can include a single treatment or a
series of treatments.
[0087]    The mammal treated in accordance with the present methods can be any mammal,
including, for example, farm animals, such as sheep, pigs, cows, and horses; pet animals,
such as dogs and cats; laboratory animals, such as rats, mice and rabbits. In a suitable
embodiment, the mammal is a human.
Peptide Synthesis
[0088]    Aromatic-cationic peptides may be synthesized according to the following general
method. Solid-phase peptide synthesis is used and all amino acids derivatives are
commercially available. After completion of peptide assembly, peptides are cleaved from
the resin in the usual manner. Crude peptides are purified by preparative reversed-phase
                                                29

  WO 2013/155334                                                          PCT/US2013/036222
chromatography. The structural identity of the peptides is confirmed by FAB mass
spectrometry and their purity is assessed by analytical reversed-phase HPLC and by thin
layer chromatography in three different systems. Purity of >98% will be achieved.
Typically, a synthetic run using 5 g of resin yields about 2.0-2.3 g of pure peptides.
                                           EXAMPLES
[0089]     The present invention is illustrated by the following examples, which should not
be construed as in any way limiting. It is understood that these methods may be performed
using any of the peptides disclosed herein, and are not limited to the exemplary peptides
described below.
[0090]     Methods for isolating cytochrome c and mitochondria are well known in the art
(see e.g., Richardson et. al., Phytochemistry, Volume 9, Issue 11, November 1970, Pages
2271-2280; Qproteome Mitochondria Isolation Kit, QIAGEN, 27220 Tumberry Lane, Suite
200 Valencia, CA 91355).
Example 1. Methods for the use of the peptide Example 1. D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH             2
(P-231)
         A. The peptide D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 facilitates cytochrome c reduction.
[0091]     Absorption spectroscopy (UltroSpec 3300 Pro; 220-1100 nm) will be used to
determine if D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 modulates cyt c reduction. Reduction of cyt c with
glutathione is associated with multiple shifts in the  Q band  (450-650 nm), with a prominent
shift at 550 nm. Addition of D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 is predicted to produce a significant
spectral weight shift at 550 nm. Time-dependent spectroscopy will show that D-Arg-Tyr
Lys-Phe-NH 2 increases the rate of cyt c reduction. These data will demonstrate that D-Arg
Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 alters the electronic structure of cyt c and enhances the reduction of Fe 3 +
to Fe2 + heme. Therefore, the peptides disclosed herein are useful for increasing cytochrome
c reduction.
         B. The peptide D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 enhances electron diffusion through
cytochrome c.
[0092]     Cyclic voltammetry (CV) will be carried out to determine if D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe
NH 2 alters electron flow and/or reduction/oxidation potentials of cyt c. CV will be done
using an Au working electrode, Ag/AgCl reference electrode, and Pt auxiliary electrode. D
                                                30

  WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 is predicted to increase current for both reduction and oxidation
processes of cyt c. It is predicted that D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 will not alter
reduction/oxidation potentials, but rather increase electron flow through cyt c, showing that
D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 decreases resistance between complexes III to IV. Therefore, the
peptides disclosed herein are useful for enhancing electron diffusion through cytochrome c.
         C. The peptide D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 enhances electron capacity in cytochrome
c.
[0093]    Photoluminescence (PL) will be carried out to examine the effects of D-Arg-Tyr
Lys-Phe-NH 2 on the electronic structure of conduction band of the heme of cyt c, an energy
state responsible for electronic transport. A Nd:YDO4 laser (532.8 nm) will be used to
excite electrons in cyt c. It is predicted that a strong PL emission in cyt c state will be
clearly identified at 650 nm. It is predicted that the PL intensity will increase dose
dependently with the addition of D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 , implying an increase of
available electronic states in conduction band in cyt c. This result will show that D-Arg
Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 increases electron capacity of conduction band of cyt c, concurring with
D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 -mediated increase in current through cyt c. Therefore, the
peptides disclosed herein are useful for enhancing electron capacity in cytochrome c.
         D. The peptide D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 induces novel R-R interactions around
cytochrome c heme.
[0094]     Circular dichroism (Olis spectropolarimeter, DSM20) will be carried out to
monitor Soret band (negative peak at 415 nm), as a probe for the 7-n* heme environment in
cyt c. It is predicted that D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 will promote a "red" shift of this peak to
440 nm, showing that D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 induces a novel heme-tyrosine n-n*
transition within cyt c, without denaturing. This result will show that D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe
NH 2 modifies the immediate environment of the heme, either by providing an additional
Tyr for electron tunneling to the heme, or by reducing the distance between endogenous Tyr
residues and the heme. The increase in 7 - n* interaction around the heme would enhance
electron tunneling which would be favorable for electron diffusion. Therefore, the peptides
disclosed herein are useful for inducing a 7t-7t interaction around cytochrome c.
         E. The peptide D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 increases mitochondrial 02 consumption.
                                                 31

   WO 2013/155334                                                            PCT/US2013/036222
[0095]     Oxygen consumption of isolated rat kidney mitochondria will be determined using
the Oxygraph. Rates of respiration will be measured in the presence of different
concentrations of D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 in state 2 (400 iM ADP only), state 3 (400 iM
ADP and 500 iM substrates) and state 4 (substrates only). All experiments will be done in
triplicate with n = 4-7. It is predicted that the results will show that D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe
NH 2 promotes electron transfer to oxygen without uncoupling mitochondria.
         F. The peptide D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 increases ATP synthesis in isolated
mitochondria.
[0096]     The rate of mitochondrial ATP synthesis will be determined by measuring ATP in
respiration buffer collected from isolated mitochondria 1 min after addition of 400 mM
ADP. ATP will be assayed by HPLC. All experiments will be carried out in triplicate, with
n=3. It is predicted that addition of D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 to isolated mitochondria will
dose-dependently increase the rate of ATP synthesis. This result would show that the
enhancement of electron transfer by D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 is coupled to ATP synthesis.
         G. The peptide D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 enhances respiration in cytochrome c
depleted mitoplasts.
[0097]     To demonstrate the role of cyt c in the action of D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 on
mitochondrial respiration, the effect of D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 on mitochondrial 02
consumption will be determined in cyt c-depleted mitoplasts made from once-frozen rat
kidney mitochondria. Rates of respiration will be measured in the presence of 500 piM
Succinate with or without 100 piM D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 . The experiment will be
carried out in triplicate, with n=3. It is predicted that the data will show that: 1) D-Arg-Tyr
Lys-Phe-NH 2 works via IMM-tightly bound cyt c; 2) D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 can rescue a
decline in functional cyt c.
Example 2. Methods for the use of the peptide D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH                2
         A. The peptide D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 facilitates cytochrome c reduction.
[0098]     Absorption spectroscopy (UltroSpec 3300 Pro; 220-1100 nm) will be used to
determine if D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 modulates cyt c reduction. Reduction of cyt
c with glutathione is associated with multiple shifts in the    Q band  (450-650 nm), with a
prominent shift at 550 nm. Addition of D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 is predicted to
produce a significant spectral weight shift at 550 nm. Time-dependent spectroscopy will
                                                  32

  WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
show that D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 increases the rate of cyt c reduction. These
data will demonstrate that D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 alters the electronic structure
of cyt c and enhances the reduction of Fe3+ to Fe2+ heme. Therefore, the peptides
disclosed herein are useful for increasing cytochrome c reduction.
        B. The peptide D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 enhances electron diffusion
through cytochrome c.
[0099]    Cyclic voltammetry (CV) will be carried out to determine if D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys
D-Phe-NH 2 alters electron flow and/or reduction/oxidation potentials of cyt c. CV will be
done using an Au working electrode, Ag/AgCl reference electrode, and Pt auxiliary
electrode. D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 is predicted to increase current for both
reduction and oxidation processes of cyt c. It is predicted that D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe
NH 2 will not alter reduction/oxidation potentials, but rather increase electron flow through
cyt c, showing that D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 decreases resistance between
complexes III to IV. Therefore, the peptides disclosed herein are useful for enhancing
electron diffusion through cytochrome c.
        C. The peptide D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 enhances electron capacity in
cytochrome c.
[0100]    Photoluminescence (PL) will be carried out to examine the effects of D-Arg-D
Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 on the electronic structure of conduction band of the heme of cyt c,
an energy state responsible for electronic transport. A Nd:YDO4 laser (532.8 nm) will be
used to excite electrons in cyt c. It is predicted that a strong PL emission in cyt c state will
be clearly identified at 650 nm. It is predicted that the PL intensity will increase dose
dependently with the addition of D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 , implying an increase of
available electronic states in conduction band in cyt c. This result will show that D-Arg-D
Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 increases electron capacity of conduction band of cyt c, concurring
with D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 -mediated increase in current through cyt c.
Therefore, the peptides disclosed herein are useful for enhancing electron capacity in
cytochrome c.
                                                 33

  WO 2013/155334                                                            PCT/US2013/036222
        D. The peptide D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 induces novel R-R interactions
around cytochrome c heme.
[0101]     Circular dichroism (Olis spectropolarimeter, DSM20) will be carried out to
monitor Soret band (negative peak at 415 nm), as a probe for the 7-n* heme environment in
cyt c. It is predicted that D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH         2 will promote a "red" shift of
this peak to 440 nm, showing that D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 induces a novel heme
tyrosine 7-n7* transition within cyt c, without denaturing. This result will show that D-Arg
D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 modifies the immediate environment of the heme, either by
providing an additional Tyr for electron tunneling to the heme, or by reducing the distance
between endogenous Tyr residues and the heme. The increase in R - n* interaction around
the heme would enhance electron tunneling which would be favorable for electron
diffusion. Therefore, the peptides disclosed herein are useful for inducing a R-R interaction
around cytochrome c.
        E. The peptide D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 increases mitochondrial 02
consumption.
[0102]     Oxygen consumption of isolated rat kidney mitochondria will be determined using
the Oxygraph. Rates of respiration will be measured in the presence of different
concentrations of D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 in state 2 (400 iM ADP only), state 3
(400 piM ADP and 500 iM substrates) and state 4 (substrates only). All experiments will be
done in triplicate with n = 4-7. It is predicted that the results will show that D-Arg-D-Dmt
D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 promotes electron transfer to oxygen without uncoupling mitochondria.
        F. The peptide D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 increases ATP synthesis in
isolated mitochondria.
[0103]    The rate of mitochondrial ATP synthesis will be determined by measuring ATP in
respiration buffer collected from isolated mitochondria 1 min after addition of 400 mM
ADP. ATP will be assayed by HPLC. All experiments will be carried out in triplicate, with
n=3. It is predicted that addition of D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 to isolated
mitochondria will dose-dependently increase the rate of ATP synthesis. This result would
show that the enhancement of electron transfer by D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 is
coupled to ATP synthesis.
        G. The peptide D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 enhances respiration in
cytochrome c-depleted mitoplasts.
                                                34

  WO 2013/155334                                                           PCT/US2013/036222
[0104]    To demonstrate the role of cyt c in the action of D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2
on mitochondrial respiration, the effect of D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 on
mitochondrial 02 consumption will be determined in cyt c-depleted mitoplasts made from
once-frozen rat kidney mitochondria. Rates of respiration will be measured in the presence
of 500 piM Succinate with or without 100 piM D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2. The
experiment will be carried out in triplicate, with n=3. It is predicted that the data will show
that: 1) D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 works via IMM-tightly bound cyt c; 2) D-Arg
D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 can rescue a decline in functional cyt c.
Example 3. Methods for the use of the peptide D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH               2 (P-231
D)
        A. The peptide D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 facilitates cytochrome c reduction.
[0105]    Absorption spectroscopy (UltroSpec 3300 Pro; 220-1100 nm) will be used to
determine if D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 modulates cyt c reduction. Reduction of cyt
c with glutathione is associated with multiple shifts in the Q band   (450-650 nm), with a
prominent shift at 550 nm. Addition of D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 is predicted to
produce a significant spectral weight shift at 550 nm. Time-dependent spectroscopy will
show that D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 increases the rate of cyt c reduction. These data
will demonstrate that D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 alters the electronic structure of cyt
c and enhances the reduction of Fe3+ to Fe2+ heme. Therefore, the peptides disclosed
herein are useful for increasing cytochrome c reduction.
        B. The peptide D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH         2 enhances electron diffusion
through cytochrome c.
[0106]    Cyclic voltammetry (CV) will be carried out to determine if D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys
D-Phe-NH 2 alters electron flow and/or reduction/oxidation potentials of cyt c. CV will be
done using an Au working electrode, Ag/AgCl reference electrode, and Pt auxiliary
electrode. D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 is predicted to increase current for both
reduction and oxidation processes of cyt c. It is predicted that D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe
NH 2 will not alter reduction/oxidation potentials, but rather increase electron flow through
cyt c, showing that D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 decreases resistance between
complexes III to IV. Therefore, the peptides disclosed herein are useful for enhancing
electron diffusion through cytochrome c.
                                               35

  WO 2013/155334                                                             PCT/US2013/036222
        C. The peptide D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH           2 enhances electron capacity in
cytochrome c.
[0107]    Photoluminescence (PL) will be carried out to examine the effects of D-Arg-D
Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 on the electronic structure of conduction band of the heme of cyt c,
an energy state responsible for electronic transport. A Nd:YDO4 laser (532.8 nm) will be
used to excite electrons in cyt c. It is predicted that a strong PL emission in cyt c state will
be clearly identified at 650 nm. It is predicted that the PL intensity will increase dose
dependently with the addition of D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH           2 , implying an increase of
available electronic states in conduction band in cyt c. This result will show that D-Arg-D
Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 increases electron capacity of conduction band of cyt c, concurring
with D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 -mediated increase in current through cyt c.
Therefore, the peptides disclosed herein are useful for enhancing electron capacity in
cytochrome c.
        D. The peptide D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 induces novel 7t-7t interactions
around cytochrome c heme.
[0108]     Circular dichroism (Olis spectropolarimeter, DSM20) will be carried out to
monitor Soret band (negative peak at 415 nm), as a probe for the 7-n* heme environment in
cyt c. It is predicted that D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 will promote a "red" shift of this
peak to 440 nm, showing that D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 induces a novel heme
tyrosine 7-n7* transition within cyt c, without denaturing. This result will show that D-Arg
D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 modifies the immediate environment of the heme, either by
providing an additional Tyr for electron tunneling to the heme, or by reducing the distance
between endogenous Tyr residues and the heme. The increase in R - n* interaction around
the heme would enhance electron tunneling which would be favorable for electron
diffusion. Therefore, the peptides disclosed herein are useful for inducing a R-R interaction
around cytochrome c.
        E. The peptide D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 increases mitochondrial 02
consumption.
[0109]     Oxygen consumption of isolated rat kidney mitochondria will be determined using
the Oxygraph. Rates of respiration will be measured in the presence of different
concentrations of D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 in state 2 (400 iM ADP only), state 3
(400 piM ADP and 500 iM substrates) and state 4 (substrates only). All experiments will be
                                                 36

  WO 2013/155334                                                            PCT/US2013/036222
done in triplicate with n = 4-7. It is predicted that the results will show that D-Arg-D-Tyr
D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 promotes electron transfer to oxygen without uncoupling mitochondria.
        F. The peptide D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 increases ATP synthesis in isolated
mitochondria.
[0110]    The rate of mitochondrial ATP synthesis will be determined by measuring ATP in
respiration buffer collected from isolated mitochondria 1 min after addition of 400 mM
ADP. ATP will be assayed by HPLC. All experiments will be carried out in triplicate, with
n=3. It is predicted that addition of D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 to isolated
mitochondria will dose-dependently increase the rate of ATP synthesis. This result would
show that the enhancement of electron transfer by D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 is
coupled to ATP synthesis.
         G. The peptide D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 enhances respiration in cytochrome
c-depleted mitoplasts.
[0111]    To demonstrate the role of cyt c in the action of D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH         2
on mitochondrial respiration, the effect of D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 on
mitochondrial 02 consumption will be determined in cyt c-depleted mitoplasts made from
once-frozen rat kidney mitochondria. Rates of respiration will be measured in the presence
of 500 piM Succinate with or without 100 piM D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 . The
experiment will be carried out in triplicate, with n=3. It is predicted that the data will show
that: 1) D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 works via IMM-tightly bound cyt c; 2) D-Arg-D
Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 can rescue a decline in functional cyt c.
                                                37

   WO 2013/155334                                                      PCT/US2013/036222
                                          CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
 1.    An aromatic-cationic peptide comprising the peptide sequence D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe
NH 2 (P-231).
2.     An aromatic-cationic peptide comprising the peptide sequence D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys
D-Phe-NH 2 (P-23 ID).
3.     An aromatic-cationic peptide comprising the peptide sequence D-Arg-D-Dmt-D
Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 .
4.     A method of increasing cytochrome c reduction in a sample containing cytochrome
c, comprising contacting the sample with an effective amount of one or more of the
aromatic-cationic peptides D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 (P-23 1), D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D-Phe
NH 2 (P-23 1D) or D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 .
5.     A method of enhancing electron diffusion through cytochrome c in a sample
containing cytochrome c, comprising contacting the sample with an effective amount of one
or more of the aromatic-cationic peptides D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 (P-23 1), D-Arg-D-Tyr
D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 (P-23 1D) or D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 .
6.     A method of enhancing electron capacity in cytochrome c in a sample containing
cytochrome c, comprising contacting the sample with an effective amount of one or more of
the aromatic-cationic peptides D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 (P-23 1), D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D
Phe-NH 2 (P-23 ID) or D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 .
7.     A method of inducing a 7t-7t interaction around cytochrome c in a sample containing
cytochrome c, comprising contacting the sample with an effective amount of one or more of
the aromatic-cationic peptides D-Arg-Tyr-Lys-Phe-NH 2 (P-23 1), D-Arg-D-Tyr-D-Lys-D
Phe-NH 2 (P-23 ID) or D-Arg-D-Dmt-D-Lys-D-Phe-NH 2 .
                                              38

