ABSTRACT
A product consisting of: a) demineralized and dehydrated chitinaceous exoskeleton;
and b)chitinase producing microbe,wherein the total microbial load of the product is
not less than 108 cfu/g (colony forming units/gram), the chitinase activity is not less
than 1 U/gds (unity per gram dry substrate), the product has a moisture content of not
less than 15% loss on drying and the chitinase producing microbes is selected from a
group consisting of Trichoderma viride and Beauveria bassiana.

                                              1
         NOVEL CHITIN/ DEMINERALISED DEHYDRATED CHITINACEOUS /
       CRUSTACEAN EXOSKELETON -BASED FORMULATION CONTAINING
         MICROBES THAT GENERATE CHITINASE/ PROTEASE ENZYMES
FIELD OF INVENTION
The invention is a new product comprising of biopolymer chitin or demineralised
dehydrated chitinaceous / crustacean exoskeleton and microbes that produce
chitinase / protease enzymes.
The invention is a new product where the chitin or demineralised dehydrated
chitinaceous / crustacean exoskeleton acts as a substrate for the microbes and also
induces the production of chitinase / protease enzymes. The enzymes will act on the
chitinaceous exoskeleton of pathogenic insects and fungus providing pesticidal
activity. Chitin or demineralised dehydrated chitinaceous / crustacean exoskeleton
populated with microbes are used as a bio-control agent that can be used in all
agricultural applications.
This invention also brings out a novel product which comprises of chitin or
demineralised dehydrated chitinaceous / crustacean exoskeleton with chitinase I
protease enzymes along with microbes that produce chitnase/protease enzymes.
BACKGROUND OF INVENTION
The invention brings out a novel product comprising of chitin or demineralised
dehydrated chitinaceous / crustacean exoskeleton with microbes that produce
chitinase / protease enzymes.
The prior art is use of chitin as a good agricultural soil/ root product. The prior art uses
chitin as a soil ingredient which may induce chitinase / protease enzymes production
in field condition. The limitation of the prior art is that additional microbes need to be
added to induce chitinase which may not be acclimatised in the new environment. The
present invention overcomes this limitation by the use of chitin or demmeralised
dehydrated chitinaceous / crustacean exoskeleton populated with microbes that

                                            2
produce chitinase / protease enzymes. There are no prior art on microbes populated
in chitin or demineralised dehydrated chitinaceous / crustacean exoskeleton.
Another prior art is to use charcoal / talc / liquid broth as substrate to inoculate and
supply biopesticidal microbes. The disadvantage of the prior art is that additional
chitinaceous matrix that helps in in-situ chitinase enzyme generation has to be added
as a separate component. The present invention proposes a product in which the
microbes are allowed to grow in chitin/ demineralised dehydrated chitinaceous /
crustacean exoskeleton which helps in chitinase / protease enzymes generation
thereby populating both the enzymes as well as the microbes progressively unlike as
in charcoal/talc where they remain dormant.
The prior art of using biopesticidal fungi like Trichoderma viride and Beauveria
bassiana involves providing as inocula in a solid or liquid substrate. The disadvantage
of the prior art is that the microbes are not active in the inert un-reactive matrix and
does not produce any biopesticidal enzymes unless introduced in the field, creating
delay in action. The present invention proposes a new product that not only contains
inoculum but also contains chitinase / protease enzymes produced by the microbes in
the chitnaceous substrate thereby providing instant effect. The microbes in the product
as described in the present invention are active due to the presence of biopolymer
chitin or demineralised dehydrated chitinaceous/ crustacean exoskeleton which
provide the nutrients for microbial proliferation in the amorphous matrix resulting in
enhanced insecticidal activity.
The present invention provides for a product where the microbes and the
chitinase/protease enzymes are populated in demineralised dehydrated chitinaceous
/crustacean exoskeleton or on chitin. These enzymes will degrade the exoskeleton of
pathogenic insects and fungi providing pesticidal activities.
OBJECT OF THE PRESENT INVENTION
An object of this invention is to provide a completely organic, eco-friendly, non-toxic
chitin- based bio-control agent for the in-situ generation of chitinase / protease

                                             3
enzymes for use against insects in the soil / roots of the plants. This product can be
used in all agriculture applications.
Another object of this invention is to use chitin or demineralised dehydrated
chitinaceous / crustacean exoskeleton as a matrix, with microbes producing chitinase
/ protease enzymes for use in the in-situ generation of chitinase / protease enzymes
and thereby using it in bio-control applications in agriculture.
Yet another object of the invention is to provide a new product that not only contains
inocula but also contains chitinase / protease enzymes produced by the microbes.
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
In one aspect, the invention provides a product consisting of:
 a) demineralized and dehydrated chitinaceous exoskeleton; and
 b) chitinase producing microbe,
     wherein the total microbial load of the product is not less than 108 cfu/g (colony
     forming units/gram), the chitinase activity is not less than 1 Ulgds (unity per gram
     dry substrate), the product has a moisture content of not less than 15%
     loss on drying and the chitinase producing microbes is selected from a group
     consisting of Trichoderma viride and Beauveria bassiana.
In an embodiment, the demineralized and dehydrated chitinaceous exoskeleton is a
crustacean exoskeleton.
Preferably, the crustacean exoskeleton is prawn or crab exoskeleton.
In an embodiment, the demineralized and dehydrated chitinaceous exoskeleton
provides the nutrients for microbial proliferation of the chitinase producing microbe.
In an embodiment, said product is suitable for use as biocontrol or biopesticidal agent.
In an embodiment, the process for the preparation of the product described above
comprises:

                                             4
a)    demineralizing in 5% hydrochloric acid fresh chitinaceous exoskeleton for four
      hours;
b)    extracting the demineralized chitinaceous exoskeleton with acetone to obtain
      dehydrated demineralized chitinaceous exoskeleton;
c)    adding chitinase producing microbe containing broth to the product of step b);
      and
d)    air-drying the mixture of step c), with the loss on drying not less than 15%.
In an embodiment, the process further comprises after said step (b) and prior to said
step (c), the intermediate step of deproteinizing the extracted chitinaceous
exoskeleton of step (b) using 3-5% sodium hydroxide solution and washing the
deproteinized chitinaceous exoskeleton to neutral pH.
In an embodiment, the chitinaceous exoskeleton is a crustacean exoskeleton.
Preferably, the crustacean exoskeleton is prawn or crab exoskeleton.
DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION:
According to this invention, there is provided an amorphous matrix consisting of
versatile biopolymer chitin or demineralized dehydrated chitinaceous / crustacean
exoskeleton in combination with chitinase / protease enzymes- producing microbes
including fungi like Trichoderma viride and Beauveria bassiana, to be used as
biocontrol / biopesticidal agents for application in the field of agriculture.
Fresh chitinaceous/ crustacean exoskeleton is soaked in 5% hydrochloric acid for four
hours    to   get   demineralised(DM)      chitinaceous/crustacean      exoskeleton. The
demineralised shell is then subjected to solvent extraction using acetone to obtain
dehydrated demineralised shell (DM-DH) shell. The DM-DH shell, after acetone
extraction, is

                                             5
subjected to deproteinization using 3-5% sodium hydroxide and then washed to
neutral pH and dried to obtain chitin. Chitin or DM-DH shell can be used for the
preparation of the product.
To 12 grams of potato dextrose broth, add 500 ml distilled water. Sterilize the media
in an autoclave. Allow it to cool to room temperature. Innoculate the pure culture with
microbes that produce chitinase / protease enzymes. Keep the inoculated media in a
rotary shaker for 72 hours. Filter the broth and mix together. Pour the mixed broth into
1 kg of chitin/ DM-DH flakes. Air dry the sample with loss of drying not less than 10%.
The invention will now be illustrated with working examples.
It is to be understood that the specific example being given here by way of illustration
and are not intended to be taken restrictively to imply any limitation on the scope of
the present invention.
Example 1: Fresh prawn shell (15 kg) was demineralised using 5% Hydrochloricacid
and then dehydrated to obtain dehydrated Demineralised (DM-DH) shell. This shell
was subjected to deproteinization using 3-5 % sodium hydroxide. The shell obtained
was washed to neutral pH and dried to obtain chitin. This was used as the matrix for
the formulation. To 24 grams of potato dextrose broth added 1 liter of distilled water.
Sterilized the media in an autoclave. Allowed it to cool to room temperature. Added
the fungal inoculum of Trichoderma viride or Beauveria bassiana into the media. Kept
in rotary shaker for 72 hours. Filtered the broth and poured 100 ml of the broth into 1
kg chitin flakes. Air-dried the mixture to LOD (loss on drying-moisture) content not less
than 15-20% and gave an assay of Microbial load of 10 cfu / gm and Chitinase enzyme
activity: not less than IU/gds
Example 2: Fresh prawn shell (15 kg) was demineralised using 5% Hydrochloricacid
and then dehydrated to obtain dehydrated Demineralised (DM-DH) shell. This DM-DH
shell was the matrix in the preparation of the present formulation. To 24 grams of
potato dextrose broth added 1 liter of distilled water. Sterilized the media in an
autoclave.

                                             6
Allowed it to cool to room temperature. Added the fungal inoculum of Trichoderma
viride or Beauveria bassiana into the media. Kept p in rotary shaker for 72 hours.
Filtered the broth. Poured 100 ml of broth into 1 kg of DM-DH flakes. Air-dried the
mixture to loss on drying moisture content LOD not less than 15-20 % and gave an
assay of Microbial load 10 cfu / gm and Chitinase enzyme activity not less than IU/gds.
In compliance with the statute, the invention has been described in language more or
less specific to structural or methodical features. The term "comprises" and its
variations, such as "comprising" and "comprised of' is used throughout in an inclusive
sense and not to the exclusion of any additional features. It is to be understood that
the invention is not limited to specific features shown or described since the means
herein described comprises preferred forms of putting the invention into effect. The
invention is, therefore, claimed in any of its forms or modifications within the proper
scope of the appended claims appropriately interpreted by those skilled in the art.
Throughout the specification and claims (if present), unless the context requires
otherwise, the term "substantially" or "about" will be understood to not be limited to the
value for the range qualified by the terms.
Any embodiment of the invention is meant to be illustrative only and is not meant to
be limiting to the invention. Therefore, it should be appreciated that various other
changes and modifications can be made to any embodiment described without
departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

                                          7
CLAIMS
  1. A product consisting of:
         a) demineralized and dehydrated chitinaceous exoskeleton; and
         b) chitinase producing microbe,
     wherein the total microbial load of the product is not less than 108 cfu/g (colony
     forming units/gram), the chitinase activity is not less than 1 U/gds (unity per
     gram dry substrate), the product has a moisture content of not less than 15%
     loss on drying and the chitinase producing microbes is selected from a group
     consisting of Trichoderma viride and Beauveria bassiana.
  2. The product according to claim 1, wherein the demineralized and dehydrated
     chitinaceous exoskeleton is a crustacean exoskeleton.
  3. The product according to claim 2, wherein the crustacean exoskeleton is prawn
     or crab exoskeleton.
  4. The product according to claim 1, wherein the demineralized and dehydrated
     chitinaceous exoskeleton provides the nutrients for microbial proliferation of the
     chitinase producing microbe.
  5. The product according to claim 1, wherein said product is suitable for use as
     biocontrol or biopesticidal agent.
  6. A process for the preparation of a product according to claim 1, comprising:
         a) demineralizing in 5% hydrochloric acid fresh chitinaceous exoskeleton
            for four hours;
         b) extracting the demineralized chitinaceous exoskeleton with acetone to
            obtain dehydrated demineralized chitinaceous exoskeleton;
         c) adding chitinase producing microbe containing broth to the product of
            step b); and
         d) air-drying the mixture of step c), with the loss on drying not less than
            15%.

                                      8
7. The process according to claim 6, further comprising after said step (b) and
   prior to said step (c), the step of deproteinizing the extracted chitinaceous
   exoskeleton of step (b) using 3-5% sodium hydroxide solution and washing the
   deproteinized chitinaceous exoskeleton to neutral pH.
8. The process according to claim 6, wherein the chitinaceous exoskeleton is a
   crustacean exoskeleton.
9. The process according to claim 8, wherein the crustacean exoskeleton is prawn
   or crab exoskeleton.

