                                     ABSTRACT
   A process for purification of a current of hydrogen synthesis gas (100),
   particularly in the front-end of an ammonia plant, wherein said gas contains
   hydrogen and minor amounts of carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, water and
 5 impurities, said process including steps of methanation (13) of said current
   (100), converting residual amounts of carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide to
   methane and water, dehydration of the gas to remove water, and then a
   cryogenic purification such as liquid nitrogen wash, to remove methane and
   Argon; a corresponding plant and method for revamping an ammonia plant
10 are also disclosed.

                                           -1
   A process for purification of a synthesis gas containing hydrogen and
   impurities
                                     DESCRIPTION
 5
   Field of the invention
   The invention relates to a process for the purification of a hydrogen synthesis
   gas, particularly in a front-end of an ammonia plant.
   Background art
10 The term of hydrogen synthesis gas in this description denotes a synthesis
   gas mainly composed of hydrogen, and comprising minor amounts of
   impurities including, for example, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, water,
   methane, argon. The term of syngas will also be used as a short form for
   synthesis gas.
15 A hydrogen synthesis gas can be produced for example in the front-end of a
   plant for the synthesis of ammonia, by reforming a hydrocarbon with a current
   of oxygen. Upon addition of a proper amount of nitrogen, a make-up gas
   suitable for the synthesis of ammonia is obtained.
   The production of a hydrogen synthesis gas involves basically the following
20 steps: reforming of a hydrocarbon source, such as natural gas, with oxygen;
   shift conversion, removal of C02. These steps remove most of the carbon
   monoxide and dioxide. More in detail, the shift converts CO into C02, which
   is then removed in a carbon dioxide removal unit. Common techniques for
   capturing the C02 from the gas are either a wash with a chemical or physical
25 solvent, or a PSA (pressure swing adsorption) process using molecular

                                          -2
   sieves.
   Some residual CO and C02, however, are still found in the gas after shift and
   C02 removal, together with impurities, e.g. small amounts of methane and
   Argon. Hence, the syngas needs a further purification. Said further purification
 5 is required particularly in case the hydrogen synthesis gas, after addition of
   nitrogen, is used for the synthesis of ammonia.
   Said purification may include liquid nitrogen washing (LNW), which is carried
   out at a cryogenic temperature, such as 180 *C below zero. Typically, a prior
   art process with LNW includes the following steps.
10 First, removal of residual C02 and water. Carbon dioxide and water must be
   removed before the nitrogen wash, because they would freeze at the low
   temperature of the latter. Usually, said step is performed by means of
   adsorption in a suitable dryer. Said dryer uses molecular sieves and requires
   a suitable dry gas as regeneration medium. Usually, the drier includes at least
15 two vessels so that one vessel can be regenerated while the other is in
   operation. Said dry gas may be nitrogen or a portion of the purified synthesis
   gas.
   Second, the nitrogen wash, where the syngas is washed by a current of liquid
   nitrogen in a suitable column. This process delivers a purified syngas virtually
20 free of impurities, containing only some parts per million (ppm) of methane
   and Ar. For example, said purified syngas may contain 75% hydrogen and
   around 25% nitrogen. The impurities are collected in a current of tail gas,
   containing also some lost nitrogen. Said tail gas is normally used as a fuel, to
   recover some energy. It cannot be used as regeneration medium for the
25 molecular sieves, since it contains some CO which would decompose at the
   high temperature of regeneration.
   The design of the above process and of the related equipment is dictated by

                                         -3
   the removal of carbon monoxide. Indeed, carbon monoxide must be removed
   to reach a very low concentration (a few parts per million) in the purified gas.
   When carbon monoxide is removed to such a low concentration, the other
   impurities such as methane and argon are almost completely washed away.
 5 Hence, the desired removal of CO determines the amount of nitrogen for the
   LNW step.
   An alternative technique to purify the syngas involves the use of a
   methanator, where residual CO and C02 are converted to methane and
   water. This technique is used especially in the field of ammonia synthesis,
10 since methane is an inert to the synthesis of ammonia and substantially
   harmless to the synthesis loop and water can be easily removed, while CO
   and C02 are poison to the ammonia catalyst. A conventional process for
   producing ammonia synthesis gas is disclosed for example in EP-A-2065337.
   A drawback of a methanator is that it consumes some of the available
15 hydrogen. Accordingly, when the purification of the syngas involves a LNW
   stage, a methanator is not used, since the CO is almost completely removed
   during the nitrogen wash.
   The above prior art still has some drawbacks. As stated above, the
   preliminary removal of C02 requires a regeneration gas, normally nitrogen or
20 a portion of synthesis gas, which is a source of cost: production of nitrogen in
   excess of the amount required for the ammonia synthesis, via air separation,
   consumes energy; using a relevant portion of purified syngas as regeneration
   medium is not desirable, due to the relevant energy penalty. Furthermore, the
   dryer is an expensive item, especially when large molecular sieve volumes
25 are required.
   Summary of the invention
   It is proposed to treat a hydrogen synthesis gas by methanation, before the

                                          -4
   step of cryogenic purification. After conversion of CO and C02 to methane
   and water, the water can be removed in a dryer, and the so obtained
   dehydrated syngas is fed to said step of cryogenic purification. Preferably, the
   cryogenic purification includes liquid nitrogen washing (LNW).
 5 The term of removal of a certain component, such as removal of C02 or
   water, shall be understood as a removal of a substantial amount of the related
   substance, obtaining a gas stream deprived or substantially free of said
   substance. A minor, residual amount of the substance, according to
   technique, may remain in the gas stream depending on the circumstances.
10 Hence, an aspect of the invention is a process for purification of a hydrogen
   synthesis gas containing hydrogen, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, water
   and impurities, said process including a step of cryogenic purification and
   dehydration of syngas prior to said cryogenic purification, characterized by a
   step of methanation, converting CO and C02 to methane and water, prior to
15 said steps of dehydration and cryogenic purification.
   Said term of hydrogen synthesis gas denotes a gas composed mainly of
   hydrogen, with minor amounts of impurities such as CO, C02, H20 and other
   impurities. In particular, according to a feature of the invention, said gas
   contains no nitrogen. Preferably, the hydrogen content of said synthesis gas
20 is at least 90% molar, the remaining being represented by the above
   mentioned impurities.
   Said step of methanation converts CO and C02 to methane and water.
   Usually, the amounts of CO and C02 in the synthesis gas subject to
   methanation are residual amounts, after previous steps which normally
25 include shift conversion and removal of carbon dioxide from shifted gas.
   Methanation is carried out according to the following reactions:
   CO  + 3H2 -> CH 4 + H2 0

                                          -5
   C02 + 4H 2 -> CH4 + 2H20.
   Methanation consumes some hydrogen, for example around 3% of the
   hydrogen contained in the syngas, thus it appears to reduce the value of the
   syngas, for example the amount of ammonia that can be synthesized at fixed
 5 syngas capacity. For this reason, in a conventional process with LNW it was
   preferred to remove completely the carbon dioxide by adsorption upstream
   the LNW. The applicant has found that, despite the above drawback of some
   hydrogen consumed, it is surprisingly advantageous to combine methanation
   and cryogenic purification such as LNW. More in detail, the applicant has
10 found that the above combination is advantageous to the overall process
   because of the following benefits.
   A first positive effect, compared to the known art, is that adsorption is used to
   capture water, since residual C02 is converted during the methanation step.
   After methanation, a substantial amount of water can be easily removed by
15 air-cooled or water-cooled condensation, so that the actual amount of water
   to be adsorbed is reduced. As a consequence, much smaller volumes of
   molecular sieves and a less amount of gas for regeneration are required,
   compared to prior-art solution where residual carbon dioxide and water are
   both removed with molecular sieves. The size and cost of molecular sieves
20 drying unit are drastically reduced thanks to the invention.
   Most of the C02 is normally removed prior to the steps of methanation and
   cryogenic purification, in a suitable CDR (carbon dioxide removal) unit.
   Thanks to the invention, there is no need to push the C02 removal to very
   low ppm of residual, which is energy intensive and difficult to achieve with
25 ordinary chemical solvents, since the residual C02 which escapes the CDR
   unit can still be converted in the subsequent methanation step. This is
   another positive effect since the extent of carbon dioxide removal can be
   optimized, taking due account of costs.

                                           -6
   The impurities in the syngas admitted to the cryogenic purification section
   basically consists of methane (CH4) and Argon. Both methane and Argon are
   not dangerous for synthesis of ammonia, contrary to CO and C02 which
   deactivate the ammonia catalyst. Moreover, Ar and CH4 do not freeze at the
 5 low temperature of the cryogenic section. Hence the process is relatively
   tolerant. Although it is desirable to have a low content of methane and Argon,
   to avoid their accumulation in the synthesis loop, it is not necessary to bring
   the cryogenic purification to extreme levels of purity, since the most
   dangerous impurities (namely CO and C02) are eliminated before the
10 cryogenic stage. This is an advantage both in terms of capital cost and
   consumption, e.g. nitrogen consumed in a LNW.
   Another advantage is that the process is applicable irrespective of the method
   for removing carbon dioxide. In particular, the process is applicable even if
   the residual amount of CO2 in the gas leaving the CDR unit is relatively high,
15 e.g. 1000 ppm. This is especially suitable in the case of revamping.
   Yet another advantage is that the tail gas discharged from the methanation
   step does not contain carbon monoxide. Hence, said tail gas can be used for
   regeneration of molecular sieves, instead of using additional nitrogen from an
   air separation unit or syngas that can otherwise be used for ammonia
20 synthesis.
   An aspect of the invention is that CO and C02 are converted in the
   methanator contrary to the prior art technique where C02 is captured by
   dryers and CO is separated by the nitrogen washing.
   In summary, the invention reduces the size of the sieves (which are required
25 to adsorb only a little water and no carbon dioxide) and reduces as a
   consequence the energy consumed for the regeneration of said sieves; the
   duty of the LNW is also reduced since the input contains CH4 but no carbon
   monoxide. Given the absence of CO, a methane slip is less negative to the

                                         -7
   synthesis, and the LNW need not be pushed to a high purity, which is another
   advantage in terms of costs.
   Another aspect of the invention is a plant for the production of a hydrogen
   synthesis gas, according to the attached claims.
 5 Still another aspect of the invention is a method for revamping an ammonia
   plant, according to the attached claims.
   Brief description of the figures
   Figure 1 is a block scheme of a front end for generation of ammonia synthesis
   gas, according to an embodiment of the invention.
10 Description of a preferred embodiment
   Referring to Fig. 1, a current of hydrogen syngas 100 is composed mostly of
   hydrogen (H2), and contains minor amounts of CO, CH4, C02, N2, Argon
   and water. For example H2 is more than 90%, preferably more than 95%, CO
   and CH4 are around 1-2%, and the other components are preferably less
15 than 1%.
   Said current 100 comes from previous treatments of shift and carbon dioxide
   removal, as will be explained below. Hence the CO and C02 contained in the
   current 100 are residual amounts after the above treatment steps.
   Said current 100, according to the shown embodiment, is fed to a methanator
20 13 where CO and C02 are converted to methane and water. The syngas 101
   leaving the methanator 13 contains practically no CO and C02, and a certain
   amount of methane, for example around 3% of methane.
   Said gas 101 is fed to a dehydration unit 14, to remove residual water. The
   dehydrated gas 102 leaving said unit 14 is sent to a cryogenic purification
25 section, which in the example is embodied as liquid nitrogen washing (LNW)

                                          -8
   unit 15. In said unit 15, the gas 102 is washed with liquid nitrogen 103. The
   output of said unit 15 includes the purified syngas 104 and tail gas 105.
   Said purified syngas 104 can be used to produce ammonia, in a suitable
   synthesis loop. To this purpose, a suitable amount of gaseous nitrogen is
 5 added to the syngas in the washing unit 15, so that said syngas 104 contains
   hydrogen and nitrogen in the stoichiometric ratio 3:1 for the production of
   ammonia (NH3).
   The current 100 is generally obtained after previous steps of reforming, shift
   and C02 removal.
10 Referring to Fig. 1, and according to a preferred embodiment, a hydrocarbon
   source 106, for example natural gas, is reformed in a reforming section 10
   with oxygen 107, obtaining a product gas 108 predominantly composed of
   hydrogen. Said gas 108 is shifted in a converter 11 to produce a shifted gas
   109, and said shifted gas 109 is subject to carbon dioxide removal in a CDR
15 section 12. The C02-depleted gas leaving said section 12 forms the above
   mentioned hydrogen gas current 100, which is admitted to the methanator 13.
   In some embodiments, a portion of the syngas 102 may bypass the LNW unit
   15 and join the stream 104, to reduce the size of said unit 15, provided that
   the impurities in the product as are within acceptable levels.
20 A process according to Fig. 1 has been compared to a conventional process
   where the gas current leaving the CDR unit is sent directly to driers for
   removal of C02 and water, and then to a LNW stage.
   For a given feed of natural gas, it has been noted that the process according
   to the invention delivers 4% less of synthesis gas, due to the consumption of
25 the methanator 13.
   However, the water to be adsorbed is around 1/6 compared to the prior art,

                                       -9
   and moreover water is much easier to capture in the mole sieves than C02,
   which means that the molecular sieves are much smaller and less expensive;
   the regeneration can be carried out with tail gas from the same PSA which
   removes the carbon dioxide, without the use of fresh nitrogen or part of the
 5 purified gas; the nitrogen consumed in the LNW stage is 25% less; the tail
   gas released from the LNW has a higher heat value since it contains more
   methane and less nitrogen, hence more energy can be recuperated by using
   said tail gas as a fuel.
   The above positive effects over-compensate the consumption of hydrogen in
10 the methanator.

                                         - 10
   CLAIMS
   1. A process for purification of a current of hydrogen synthesis gas (100),
      said current being composed of hydrogen and minor amounts of carbon
      monoxide, carbon dioxide, water and impurities, said process including a
 5    step of cryogenic purification (15), and dehydration (14) of syngas prior to
      said cryogenic purification, characterized by a step of methanation (13) of
      said current (100), converting carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide to
      methane and water, prior to said steps of dehydration and cryogenic
      purification.
10 2. A process according to claim 1, wherein prior to said step of methanation,
      the synthesis gas is subject to shift conversion of carbon monoxide to
      carbon dioxide, and removal of carbon dioxide.
   3. A process according to claim 1 or 2, said hydrogen synthesis gas (100)
      being obtained by reforming of a hydrocarbon source (106) with oxygen
15    (107).
   4. A process according to any of the previous claims, wherein a portion of
      the gas, after said step of methanation and dehydration, bypasses said
      cryogenic purification.
   5. A process according to any of claims 1 to 4, said step of cryogenic
20    purification comprising a liquid nitrogen wash.
   6. A process according to any of claims 1 to 5, for obtaining a make-up
      synthesis gas for the synthesis of ammonia.
   7. A process according to any of claims 1 to 6, said current of hydrogen
      synthesis gas containing at least 90% (mol) hydrogen.

                                          -11
   8. A plant for the production of a hydrogen synthesis gas, comprising a
       cryogenic purification section (15) and dehydration section arranged
       upstream of said purification section, characterized by a methanation
       section (13) installed upstream of said purification section (15) and
 5     dehydration section.
   9.  A plant according to claim 8, comprising: a reforming section for reforming
       of a hydrocarbon source with oxygen; a shift converter; a carbon dioxide
       removal section upstream said methanation section.
   10. A plant according to claim 8 or 9, said cryogenic purification section being
10     suitable to provide a liquid nitrogen wash.
   11. A plant according to any of claims 9 to 10, for the production of ammonia
       synthesis gas in the front-end of an ammonia plant.
   12. A method for revamping an ammonia plant, wherein:
       said plant comprises a front-end for production of a ammonia synthesis
15     gas, and a synthesis loop for reaction of said synthesis gas into ammonia,
       said front-end comprises a reforming section (10) where a hydrocarbon
       source is reformed with oxygen, producing a hydrogen synthesis gas, and
       a purification section,
       the method being characterized by the provision of a methanation section
20     and of a cryogenic purification section, said cryogenic section being
       arranged after the methanation section, so that the syngas after
       methanation is directed to said cryogenic purifications section.
   13. A method according to claim 12, said purification section being suitable
       for liquid nitrogen wash.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
