                             Abstract
   An infusion assembly 30, 100 comprises a holder which in
   one form incorporates a plurality of arms 92, 93 and an
 5 infusion bag 80, 86 mounted to the holder.  The infusion
   bag is arranged to contain a substance to be infused or
   dissolved in a liquid and the arms are arranged to adopt
   an open condition where the arms are spaced part and a
   close condition where the arms are in contact with the
10 infusion bag 80, 86 to squeeze the bag. In a particular
   form, the assembly further comprises an actuator 26 which
   is arranged to move the holder to adopt the closed
   condition.  The infusion assembly has a particular
   application as a single use product.

                                  -  1
                            INFUSION ASSEMBLY
                             Technical Field
   5
            The present invention relates to an assembly for
      infusing a substance into a liquid, such as infusing tea
      into hot water.   The invention has particular application
      as a single use, disposable assembly and is herein
 10   described in that context.    However, it is to be
      appreciated that the invention is not limited to that use.
                      Background of the Invention
 15         Tea bags are convenient for infusing tea into hot
     water, but however come with a number of disadvantages.
     The tea bag has to be jiggled up and down in order to
     infuse the hot water with tea effectively. Also, a
     separate stirrer is required in order to distribute the
20   flavour evenly into the hot water or add other flavours
     such as sugar and milk. Further, the tea bags usually
     retain an amount of water therein which drips when the bag
     is removed from a cup.
            To overcome some of the above disadvantages, numerous
25   alternative methods of serving tea have been provided. One
     such method is a "Stick Tea""     (www.sticktea.com), which is
     a disposable tea infuser comprising an elongated tea
     housing made from thin aluminium sheet. The elongated
     aluminium housing includes a number of infusion holes
30   along its length with the tea leaves housed within the
     housing. The stick tea is dipped into hot water to infuse
     the hot water with tea and the housing itself can be used
     for stirring.

                                - 2
           Whilst the Stick Tea infuser combines the operations
     of the infusion assembly and stirrer, it is expensive to
     manufacture and the foil housing inhibits the diffusion
     rate of the tea as compared to conventional tea bags.
  5
                       Summary of the Invention
           In a first aspect, the present invention provides an
     infusion assembly comprising: a holder incorporating a
 10 plurality of arms; and an infusion bag mounted to the
    holder, the infusion bag being disposed between the arms
    and containing a substance to be infused or dissolved in a
    liquid; wherein the arms are arranged to adopt an open
    condition where the arms are spaced apart and a closed
 15 condition where the arms are arranged to squeeze the
    infusion bag.
           An infusion assembly according to this aspect of the
    invention has a separate holder which is able to adopt
    various conditions relative to the infusion bag.   This in
20  turn improves the functionality of the device.   For
    example, when the holder is in its fully open condition,
    the holder can have minimal influence on the infusion rate
    of the substance through the bag.   When moved to its
    closed condition, the holder can be used to squeeze the
25  bag.
           In a particular embodiment the arms are arranged to
    pivot relative to one another and to the infusion bag
    about an upper end of the arms so as to move between the
    open and closed conditions.   In one typical, but not
30  exclusive form, the arms are elongate and can be
    sufficiently rigid to allow the assembly to be self
    supporting so that it can stand on the lower ends of the
    arms and/or may be used as a stirrer.   In a particular

                                   - 3
       form of that embodiment, the infusion bag and a lower
       region of the arms are arranged to be immersed below the
       surface of the liquid.
             In one embodiment,  the arms are made from sheet
   5  material so as to incorporate a generally planar side wall
      that extends between upper and lower ends of the arms.      In
      a further embodiment, at least two of the arms are
      integrally formed together.     The arms may be provided with
      a plurality of openings formed in the side wall of the
 10   arms.   In an arrangement where the arms include a
      plurality of openings, these openings are located in a
      lower region of each arm.     In another form, the arms may
      be made from material having substantially smaller surface
      area, such as wire of the like, which are sufficiently
 15   spaced apart to obviate the need for infusion openings.
             In one form the infusion bag is connected directly to
      the holder. In a particular arrangement, the infusion bag
      is mounted to an inner side of at least one of the arms.
             In another form, the infusion bag is mounted to the
20   holder through a connector so as to space the infusion bag
     from the holder. This arrangement has the advantage that
     it allows better circulation around the substance thereby
     enhancing the efficacy of the assembly to infuse the
     substance.    The connector may be formed from any suitable
25   material. For example, the connector may be formed of
     string or may be an extension of the porous material used
     to form the infusion bag.
              In one form, the connector extends from an upper end
     of the arms so as to be disposed between the arms in the
30   open and closed condition.
            In a particular embodiment, the infusion bag is
     elongate.    With this arrangement, the assembly can adopt a
     generally elongate configuration when the arms are

                                 - 4
     similarly formed in an elongate fashion and when disposed
     in their closed orientation.    This elongate shape
     facilitates use of the assembly as a stirrer, its location
     in a broad range of vessels   (e.g. tea cups and the like)
  5  and also is ideally suited for packaging as it is
     relatively compact.
            The assembly may incorporate a single infusion bag or
     multiple bags if desired.   An advantage of using multiple
     bags is that it can further improve the efficacy of the
 10  assembly to infuse by increasing the effective surface
     area of the bags.   Also the multiple bags may incorporate
     different substances which in turn can be infused at
     different rates or for differing length of times.
            In one form of this latter arrangement, at least two
 15 of the plurality of infusion bags are interconnected by
    the connector.
           In one form, at least one of the arms incorporate a
    cavity which is able to contain a substance and which is
    arranged to be released into the liquid under
20  predetermined conditions. Whilst this substance may be the
    same as the substance in the infusion bag, in one form, it
    is a separate substance.    For example where the substance
    in the infusion bag is a tea, the substance contained in
    the cavity may include milk, sugar, whitener, etc.
25         In a particular embodiment of this arrangement, the
    predetermined conditions is selected from a threshold
    temperature and/or a threshold pressure being applied to
    the arms. This arrangement has the advantage that the
    release of the substance from the cavity can be controlled
30  and/or delayed until after the primary infusion has taken
    place.
           In a particular embodiment, the infusion assembly
    further comprises an actuator operative to move the arms

                                 - 5
     together to adopt the closed condition.   In this way the
     actuator may be used to squeeze the bag after use, and/or
     may be used to reduce or stop the infusion process by
     moving the holder to it closed condition.   The use of an
  5  actuator is particularly suited in arrangements where at
     least part of the holder is immersed in the liquid.
            In a particular embodiment the actuator is in the
     form of a sleeve which is disposed about the holder and
     slideable towards a lower end of the holder. In one form,
 10  actuator can be imprinted with advertising.
           In a further aspect, the present invention provides
     an infusion assembly comprising:  a holder having an upper
    end and a lower end and at least one side wall disposed
    between the ends, a cavity associated with the holder, the
 15 cavity containing a substance to be infused or dissolved
    in a liquid, wherein the holder is arranged to adopt an
    open condition where the cavity is open and a closed
    condition where the cavity is caused to collapse, and an
    actuator operative to cause the holder to adopt the closed
20  condition so as to squeeze the substance in the cavity.
           In this aspect, the holder may take other forms in
    addition to the arrangement of holder with the plurality
    of arms as disclosed above.    For example the holder may be
    arranged as a substantially cylindrical housing that
25  entirely encases an infusion bag or defines the cavity.
           In one form, the cavity is disposed within the
    holder. In another form the cavity is formed in an
    infusion bag connected to the holder.
           In one embodiment of the assembly in any form
30  described above, the assembly is disposable and arranged
    for single use. Furthermore, in another embodiment the
    assembly is encased a hygienic wrapper.
          In one typical, but not exclusive form, the substance

                                   -6
      contained by the infusion bag comprises tea leaves, herbs,
      dried fruit or like material.
             In a further aspect, the present invention provides a
      holder for use with an infusion assembly.    In one form of
   5  this latter arrangement, the holder may be for multiple
      use and the infusion bag is connected to the holder
      immediately prior to use.    After use, the infusion bag can
      discarded.
              The holder can be made from recyclable material,
 10   such as plastics or corrugated paper. All of the
      components of the assembly can be made from recyclable or
      biodegradable material.
                    Brief Description of the Drawings
 15
            Notwithstanding any other forms which may fall within
      its scope, embodiments of the invention will now be
     described, by way of example only, with reference to the
     accompanying drawings in which:
20                 Fig. 1 shows an elongated infusion bag for an
     assembly according to an embodiment of the present
     invention;
            Fig. 2 shows (a) front view and (b) end view of an
     embodiment of a holder;
25          Fig. 3 shows  (a) front view and (b) end view of an
     embodiment of an actuator;
            Fig. 4 shows an infusion assembly according to an
     embodiment of the present invention;
            Fig. 5 shows the infusion assembly of Fig. 4 sealed
30   with a plastics wrapping;
            Fig. 6 shows one use of the infusion assembly of Fig.
     4 according to an embodiment of the invention;
            Fig. 7 shows  (a) front view and (b) end view of a

                                   -  7
      further embodiment of the holder in accordance with the
      invention.
             Fig. 8 shows a side view of an infusion assembly with
      an actuator according to a further embodiment of the
   5  present invention with the holder of Fig. 7;
             Fig. 9 shows  (a) front view and (b) side view of an
      embodiment of an elongated infusion bag, with Fig. 9(c)
      shows a side view of an embodiment of elongated infusion
      bags with an integral connector in accordance with the
 10   invention;
             Fig. 10 shows  (a) pre-folded view and (b) folded view
      of an embodiment of an elongated infusion bags with an
      integral connector in accordance with the invention;
             Fig. 11 shows  (a) a front view of an embodiment of
 15   the arms of the holder integrally joined and (b) a folded
     view in accordance with the invention;
            Fig. 12 shows steps of a sequence of operation of an
     embodiment of the infusion assembly in accordance with the
      invention with (a) a pre-use closed condition, (b) pre-use
20   open condition, (c) in-use open condition, (d) post-use
     closed condition;
            Fig. 13 shows  (a) an outer side view and (b) an inner
     side view of a further embodiment of the infusion
     assembly, with Fig. 13    (c) showing a side view of the
25   assembly in a fully assembled configuration;
            Fig. 14 shows an outer side view; and (b) an inner
     side view of a holder of an embodiment of the infusion
     assembly, whereas Fig. (c) shows an infusion bag for use
     with the holder and Fig. 14     (d) shows the infusion
30   assembly in its ready for use configuration; and
            Fig. 15 shows a side view of a further embodiment of
     infusion assembly.

                                   -8
                   Modes for Carrying Out the Invention
            Referring to the drawings, Figs. 1 to 3 show the
       components of an infusion assembly in the form of an
   5   elongate disposable infuser 30   (see Fig. 4).
             Fig. 1 shows an infusion bag 10 which is made from
      porous material.    The bag 10 contains a substance 14 such
      as tea leaves to be infused or dissolved in a liquid.      The
      bag 10 is of a generally elongate shape and is also
 10   defined by a join 11 along its length.      The bag 10 is made
      from porous paper and includes seals 13 which define the
      limits of the bag.    However one of the seals is formed
      intermediate the paper length to form a tail region 32
      that forms a connector as will be discussed below.
 15         Figs. 2(a) and 2(b) show an elongate housing in the
      form of a tubular casing 20 having a side wall 21 that
      increases in diameter from the upper end 22 to the lower
      end 23.    The casing is typically made from a food grade
      paper and the side wall 21 of the casing 20 has a
20    plurality of openings in the form of perforations 24 that
      appear on the lower region 25 of the casing 20 to past the
     mid portion of the casing 20.     The casing 20 is rigid to
     be self supporting, and is shown adopting an open position
     where the side wall 21 defines a cavity to allow the
25   infusion bag 10 to be disposed therein in spaced
     relationship to the wall 21.
           Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) shows an actuator in the form of
     a resilient sleeve 26.     The sleeve 26  is generally ring
     shaped and is dimensioned to extend around the upper end
30   22 and move down the side wall 21 from the upper end 22 of
     the casing 20.    As shown in Fig. 3(b) it is possible to
     display the tea product trade mark by imprinted the trade
     mark onto the sleeve 26.

                                   -9
             Fig. 4 shows the assembled infuser 30 with the
       infusion bag 10 disposed within the casing 20 and the
       casing fitted with the sleeve 26.     The infusion bag 10 is
       mounted to the casing 20 through the connector 32.     The
   5   casing 20 is shown adopting an open position where the
       side wall 24 is spaced from the infusion bag 10.     The
       infusion bag 10 hangs freely from the casing 20.     The
      sleeve 26   is capable of moving the side wall 24 to adopt a
      closed position whereby the side wall collapses onto the
 10   bag so as to squeeze the infusion bag.
            Fig. 5 shows the infuser 30 of Fig. 4, encased in a
      clear plastic wrapper 32,   for example cellophane, to
      hygienically seal the infuser 30.
            Referring to Fig. 6, the infuser 30    is shown in use
 15   in a mug 50 filled with a liquid such as hot water 52.
      The infuser 30 is inserted into the mug 50 such that the
      infusion bag 10 and at least the lower region of the
      infuser 30   is immersed below the surface of the hot water
      52.   The infuser 30 is self-supporting in the mug 50, with
20    the lower end 23 resting on the base of the mug 50.      As
      the upper end 22 of the infuser 30 is above the hot water
     52, the sleeve can provide an attractive advertisement of
     the tea product being consumed by the user.
           Referring to Figs. 7(a) and 7(b),    a holder is shown
25   having a tubular casing 60 with corrugated side walls 61
     extending from the upper end 62 to the lower end 63.
     Corrugated paper is one of the preferred materials to use
     as it is easily recyclable.      The side wall 61 of the
     casing 60 has a plurality of openings in the form of
30   perforations 64 that appear on the lower region 65 of the
     casing 60 to past the mid portion of the casing 60.       Like
     the earlier embodiment described, the casing 60 is rigid
     to be self supporting, and is shown adopting an open

                                  - 10
      position where the side wall 61 is spaced from the
       infusion bag 10  (not shown).
            Fig. 8 shows an infusion assembly as a self contained
       infuser 70 with an infusion bag 10 disposed within the
   5  casing 60 of Figs. 7(a) and (b).    Like the embodiment
      shown in Fig. 4,   the casing 60 is fitted with a sleeve 26.
      The infusion bag 10 is mounted to the casing 60 through a
      connector (not shown).    The casing 60 is shown adopting an
      open position where the side wall 61 is spaced from the
 10   infusion bag 10.    The infusion bag 10 hangs freely from
      the casing 60.   The sleeve 26 is capable of moving the
      side wall 61 to adopt a closed position so as to squeeze
      the infusion bag.
         -  Figs. 9 to 10 show embodiments of an infusion bag 80.
 15   The bag 80 of Fig. 9 is similar to the embodiment shown in
      Fig. 1, except the side portions 82 of the bag 80 include
      inwardly directed folds 84, which allows for easy infusion
      of the liquid with the contents of the bag in use.    Fig.
      9(c) shows a strip 85 of bags with two separate elongated
20    bags 86.   The strip 85 shown in Fig. 10 is similar to the
      embodiment shown in Fig. 9, except between each of the
     elongate bags 86 an integral connector 88,    shown in the
      form of an extension of the porous material used to form
     the bag 86, is positioned between the elongated bags 86.
25   Each bag 86 is similar to the embodiment shown in Fig. 1
     and holds a similar amount of contents, except that each
     bag 86 is slimmer than the bag 10 of Fig. 1.     The bags 86
     can be formed continuously as a string, cut into
     individual bags 86, or in discrete multiples, to be used
30   be used with the infusers.
           Figs. 11 to 12 illustrate a further form of infusion
     assembly in the form of infuser 100    (see Fig. 12). The
     main distinction between the infuser 100 and the earlier

     embodiments is in the construction of the infusion cover
     90 which is of much more open construction than in the
    casings of the earlier embodiments and forms a holder for
    the infuser 100.
  5        The cover 90 incorporates a plurality of arms, shown
    as two panels     (92, 93).   The panels   (92, 93)  in the
    illustrated form are made from sheet material so that the
    panels form a generally planar wall extending from a lower
    end 95 to an upper end 96 and are tapered, with the lower
 10 end 95 being the wider end.        The panels  (92, 93) are
    integrally formed together and have a fold line 94 at the
    junction.     The cover 90 is then folded at the fold line 94
    as shown in Fig. 11     (b) with the lower ends 95 being
    separated    (see Figs.  12)  such that the panels     (92,93) can
15  pivot relative to each other.        The panels 92,   93
    incorporate infusion apertures 97 in the lower region of
    the respective panels.
          As in the earlier embodiments, the cover 90 of the
    infuser 100 is arranged to move between an open and a
20  closed condition as will be described in more detail
    below.    Again in a similar arrangement as the earlier
    embodiments, the infuser incorporates the sleeve 26 which
    encircle the panels 92,      93 to move the arms together to
    adopt the closed position       (as best seen in Figs. 12(a),
25  (d)).
          Figs. 12 shows the assembled infuser 100 with two of
    the infusion bags 86 of Fig. 10 disposed within the cover
    90, and sleeve 26 positioned about the cover panels 92 and
    93.   The infusion bags 86 are mounted to the cover 90
30  through the connector 88 which is formed as an extension
    of the paper covering of the bags 80 so as to hang freely
    from the cover 90.
          As best shown in the sequence of Figs.        12(a) to

                                  - 12
      12(d),  the infusion assembly is able to be provided to a
      user in a hygienic wrapper 34 where the panels are in a
      closed condition.   At the desired time of use the infuser
      100 can be removed from the wrapper 34.    The cover 90 is
   5  able to move between the closed condition and the open
      condition of Fig. 12(b) where the panels are spaced from
      the infusion bags 86 to provide a stable configuration.
      The cover 90 in the open condition allows the infuser 100
      to stand in a cup 102 as shown in Fig 12(c) where good
 10   circulation is promoted around the infusion bag 86 for
      effective infusion.   When the desired strength or infusion
      time has been reached the cover 90 can be moved to the
      closed condition as shown in Fig 12 (d) where the panels
      are able to squeeze the infusion bags 86.    This movement
 15   of the panels is achieved by hinging of the panels about
      their upper ends 96 and this action is able to be effected
     by sliding of the sleeve 26 down the panels    (92, 93).
     Alternatively, the panels can be moved simply by hand by
     squeezing the panels.
20         The operating mode of the various infusion assemblies
     will now be described.
           Referring to Fig. 6, natural convection allows the
     hot water 52 to be infused with tea in the infusion bag
     10. Additionally or alternatively, the user can hold the
25   casing upper end 22 to stir the infuser around the water
     52 to distribute the tea flavour evenly.
           When the infusion bag 10 is in the hot water, the tea
     leaves  14 naturally expand and move within the infusion
     bag 10.  The elongated infusion bag 10 allows sufficient
30   space for the tea leaves   14 to expand and move therein to
     allow natural and efficient infusion of the tea into the
     hot water 52.  The casing 20 also allows for this infusion
     to occur efficiently, as the portion of the casing 20

                                    - 13
       which has the perforations 24 extend for a greater length
       than height of the tea leaves stack in the bag 10.
             With reference to the embodiment of Fig. 12,    the
       infuser 100 is positioned in a cup with the panels in the
   5  open condition where they are spaced apart to allow the
      infuser to stand in the cup and to allow for good
      circulation around the one or more infusion bags.       Similar
      to the earlier embodiment, the cover 90 can be used to
      stir the infuser around the water.
 10          In either form, once the desired tea strength is
      reached, the user can grab the upper end 22,     96 with two
      fingers from one hand and use two fingers, or the sleeve
      26, to slide down the casing 20 or cover 90 towards the
      lower end 23 95 with a squeezing force to move the casing
 15   20,  or the panels  (92, 93),   to adopt a closed position
      where the casing 20   (or panels 92,93) is in contact with
      the infusion bag 10 to remove excess liquid from the bag.
     This prevents dripping from the infusion bag 10 when
     removing the infuser 30 from the mug 50.       The infusion
20   bag, of any of the embodiments previously described, can
     permit easy infusion of the liquid with the substance
     contained in the bag.
            Further variations of the infuser 100 are shown in
     Figs. 13 to 15 so that for ease of reference, like
25   features have been given like reference numerals.
            Returning firstly to Figs. 13    (a) to 13 (c), the
     infuser includes two    (2) infusion bags 86 but rather than
     have those infusion bags connected to the cover 90 through
     a separate connecter, in this arrangement, the bags are
30   bonded directly to an inner side of the respective panels
     92 and 93.
            In the embodiment disclosed in Figs. 14    (a) to 14
     (d),   the cover 90 of the infuser 120 is modified to

                                - 14
     incorporate internal cavities 121 and 122 within the
     respective panels 92 and 93. These cavities are able to
     contain either dried powders/granules or liquids such as
     sugar, milk, whitener etc..  In the particular form as
  5  illustrated, the cavities are fully sealed but incorporate
     a film cover 123 which forms an inner side of the pouch
    which defines the cavities 121 and 122. This film is
     incorporated with laser cuts 124 which are arranged to
    open under predetermined conditions such as when the film
10  reaches a threshold temperature and/or under particular
    pressures.
          The infuser 120 of this embodiment is ideally suited
    when multiple substances are to be incorporated into the
    liquid. As an example the primary infusion bags 86 may be
15  arranged to contain tea whereas the cavity 121 in one
    panel is arranged to contain milk whereas the cavity 122
    of the other panel is arranged to contain sugar. Both the
    milk and the sugar is dosed at a particular level with the
    infuser being sold as a "3 in 1" package. In use, when the
20  infuser 120 is immersed in the heated liquid, the tea will
    infuse in the liquid first and subsequently, the milk
    and/or sugar will be released when the threshold
    conditions are met.
          Finally, in respect of Fig. 15,  the infuser 130 is
25  further modified to incorporate a temperature indicator
    131 on the cover 90 which is arranged to change colour
    when an appropriate set temperature is reached. For
    example, the temperature indicator 121 may be arranged to
    change colour when the temperature drops below a preset
30  temperature so as to indicate to a consumer that the
    beverage is at a safe temperature to drink.
          It is to be understood that the preceding description
    of mode for carrying out the invention are provided for

                                 -  15
     illustrative purposes only, and are not intended to limit
     the scope of the invention in any way.     Furthermore, it
     should be appreciated that various other changes and
     modifications can be made to the embodiments, in addition
  5  to those already described, without departing from the
     basic inventive concepts.     All such variations and
     modifications are to be considered within the scope of the
     infusion assembly.
           For example, instead of containing tea, the desired
 10  substance which can be infused or dissolved when placed in
     a container of water, milk or other liquid including
     liquor. Also, instead of having large particle tea or
     spice leaves in the bag, the bag can have a substance in
    granular or powder form which will dissolve in the liquid.
 15 The bag can be a micro filter paper bag that retains fine
    granules or powder in the bag 10 and release same into the
     liquid, allowing the flavours or concentrate to dissolve
    evenly throughout the liquid.
          An advantage of the infusion assembly is that it
20  allows a quick, easily brewed/infused flavour evenly
    distributed into liquid.    The actuator can be used to
    squeeze excess liquid from the infusion assembly to avoid
    undesired dripping.
          All of the components of the assembly can be made
25  from recycled or biodegradable material such as plastics,
    paper or foil. Thus, the entire assembly can be disposed
    of into a compost bin.
          The holder is substantially rigid by its material
    and/or construction such that it can be used as a stirrer
30  if sugar, milk or another flavour is added to the liquid.
          A  reference herein to a prior art document is not an
    admission that the document forms part of the common
    general knowledge in the art in Australia.

                            - 16
       In the claims which follow and in the preceding
  description of the invention, except where the context
  requires otherwise due to express language or necessary
  implication, the word "comprise" or variations such as
5 "comprises" or "comprising" is used in an inclusive sense,
  i.e. to specify the presence of the stated features but
  not to preclude the presence or addition of further
  features in various embodiments of the invention.

                                  - 17
                                  CLAIMS:
       1.    An infusion assembly comprising:
   5          a holder incorporating a plurality of arms; and
              an infusion bag mounted to the holder, the infusion
      bag being disposed between the arms and containing a
       substance to be infused or dissolved in a liquid; wherein
       the arms are arranged to adopt an open condition where the
 10   arms are spaced apart and a closed condition where the
      arms are arranged to squeeze the infusion bag.
      2.     An infusion assembly according to claim 1, wherein
      the arms are arranged to pivot relative to one another and
      to the infusion bag about an upper end of the arms so as
 15   to move between the open and closed conditions.
      3.     An infusion assembly according to either claims 1 or
      2, wherein the arms are sufficiently rigid to allow the
      assembly to be self supporting.
      4.     An infusion assembly according to any preceding
20    claim, wherein the arms are made from sheet material so as
      to incorporate a generally planar side wall that extends
     between upper and lower ends of the arms.
     5.     An infusion assembly according to claim 4, wherein a
     plurality of openings are formed in the side wall of the
25   arms.
     6.     An infusion assembly according to claim 5, wherein
     the plurality of openings are located in a lower region of
     each arm.
     7.     An infusion assembly according to any preceding
30   claim, wherein at least two of the arms are integrally
     formed together.
     8.     An infusion assembly according to any preceding
     claim, wherein the infusion bag is mounted to the holder

                                 - 18
      through a connector so as to space the infusion bag from
      the holder.
      9.     An infusion assembly according to claim 8, wherein
      the connector extends from an upper end of the arms so as
   5  to be disposed between the arms in the open and closed
      condition.
      10.   An infusion assembly according to any one of claims 1
      to 7, where the infusion bag is disposed on an inner side
      of one of the arms.
 10   11.   An infusion assembly according to claim 10, when a
      said infusion bag is disposed on the inner side of two of
      the arms.
      12.   An infusion assembly according to any preceding
      claim, wherein in use, the infusion bag and a lower region
 15  of the arms are arranged to be immersed below the surface
     of the liquid.
      13.   An infusion assembly according to any preceding
     claim, wherein the arms are elongate.
     14.    An infusion assembly according to any preceding
20   claim, wherein the infusion bag is elongate.
     15.    An infusion assembly according to any preceding
     claim, further comprising a plurality of said infusion
     bags disposed between the arms.
     16.    An infusion assembly according to claim 15 when
25   dependent on claim 9, wherein the plurality of infusion
     bags are interconnected by the connector.
     17.    An infusion assembly according to any preceding
     claim, wherein the arms incorporate a cavity containing a
     substance arranged to be released into the liquid under
30   predetermined conditions.
     18.   An infusion assembly according to claim 17, wherein
     the predetermined conditions is a threshold temperature
     and/or a threshold pressure applied to said arms.

                                      -  19
   19.       An infusion assembly according to any preceding claim,
             further comprising an actuator operative to move the arms
             together to adopt the closed condition.
   20.       An infusion assembly comprising:
 5                  a holder having an upper end and a lower end and at
             least side wall   disposed between the ends,
                    a cavity associated with the holder, the cavity
             containing a substance to be infused or dissolved in a
             liquid, wherein the holder is arranged to adopt an open
10           condition where the cavity is open and a closed condition
             where the cavity is caused to collapse, and
                    an actuator operative to  cause the holder to adopt
             the closed condition so as to squeeze the substance
             contained in the cavity.
15 21.       An infusion assembly according to claim 20,    wherein the
             cavity is disposed within the holder.
   22.       An infusion assembly according to claim 20 or 21,    wherein
             the cavity is disposed in an infusion bag connected to the
             holder.
20 23.       An infusion assembly according to any one of    claims 19 to
             22,  wherein the actuator is in the form of a sleeve which
             is disposed about the holder and slideable towards a lower
             end of the holder.
   24.       An infusion assembly according to any preceding claim,
25           wherein the assembly is disposable and arranged for single
             use.
   25.       An infusion assembly according to any preceding claim,
             further comprising a temperature indicator.
   26.       An infusion assembly according to claim 25 wherein the
30           temperature indicator is provided on the assembly holder.
   27.       An infusion assembly according to any preceding claim,
             wherein the assembly is encased a hygienic wrapper.
   9849003 1

                                    - 20
  28.       An infusion assembly according to any preceding claim,
            wherein the substance comprises tea leaves, herbs, dried
            fruit or like material.
  29.       A holder for use with an infusion assembly as defined in
5           any preceding claim.
  9849003 1

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
