              AUTODRILLING SYSTEM FOR CONTROL OF OPERATION
                           OF A HYDRAULIC DRILLING RIG
                                          ABSTRACT
        A system for automatically controlling the operation of a hydraulic drilling rig
having one or more hydraulic drill string hoisting cylinders is provided. The system
comprises a central controller for operating the cylinders with programmable logic
control to meet specified drilling parameters; an autodrilling interface in data
communication with the central controller, for setting the specified drilling parameters;
and a plurality of sensors associated with the cylinders and hydraulic conduits
associated therewith, for generating data indicating status of operation of the cylinders.
The sensors are configured to transmit the data to the central controller for processing
by the programmable logic control to modify operation of the cylinders to cause the
drilling rig to meet the specified drilling parameters.

                                    4/8
 Rod End
 Pressure
  Sensor
   56b
                                                              Encoder
                                                                56c
         Hydraulic                               Hydraulic        I
           Hoist                                   Hoist          I
          System                                  System          I
            56                                       56           I
                          Hydraulic Control
                                54
Blind End
 Pressure
  Sensor
   56a
     S__      _Controller
     L_                         52
       -- - - - - - -                                      Autodrilling
Mud Pump                           - - - - - - - - - - - -  Interface
 Pressure                                        Manual         50
   56d                        - - - - - - -     Interface
                                                    51
                          FIGURE 2

            AUTODRILLING SYSTEM FOR CONTROL OF OPERATION
                            OF A HYDRAULIC DRILLING RIG
                               FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001] The invention provides a system for automatic control of the drilling of an oil well.
The system includes an autodrilling interface that enables parameter data to be input
and output data to be displayed, a programmable logic controller (PLC), a hydraulic
control system and at least one sensor configured to the hydraulic control system. The
PLC receives parameter input data from the autodrilling interface and at least one
sensor and provides output instructions to the hydraulic control system such that the
hydraulic control system operates to control drilling based on PLC instructions and
sensor data.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0002] Drilling a modern oil well involves the use of expensive and sophisticated heavy
equipment that is complicated in its set-up and operation. As such, drilling an oil well
also requires the skilled involvement of experienced and well trained operators to ensure
that all aspects of the drilling process are executed efficiently and safely. Proper
procedures at all steps of the process must be followed to prevent accidents, minimize
the risk of damage to the equipment and also ensure that the actual drilling process is
successful.
[0003] With regards to the drilling process itself, skilled operators manage the operation
of the drilling equipment using established procedures and protocols to initiate the
drilling process, monitor the drilling as it progresses and react to situations as they may
occur. Due to the harshness of the environment and the complexities and variables ever
present in drilling an oil well, it is well known that it is often difficult for the human
operator to optimize the dynamic process as drilling continues. That is, the operator
must generally balance a number of parameters in order to maintain effective and/or
efficient drilling rates through particular formation rock while also operating within the
performance specifications for the equipment involved. For example, the operator must
monitor and control various parameters such as rate of penetration (ROP), weight on bit
                                               -1-

(WOB), drilling fluid flow rates, differential pressure (DP), motor speeds as well as other
parameters during the drilling process.
[0004] As is known, adjusting the rate of release of the drillstring is one way in which the
drilling process can be controlled. In controlling the rate of the release of the drillstring,
the operator will be looking to control the amount of force that is being applied by the
drillbit against the formation rock. That is, depending on the relative hardness of the rock
the operator will look to optimize the drilling through that particular rock wherein the force
being applied to the rock face is generally less than the total weight of the drillstring.
Thus, the rate at which the drillstring is being lowered into the well bore must be
controlled in order that the total force of the drill bit against the rock at the bottom of the
well is maintained within desired ranges.
[0005] However, in many circumstances there is no quantitative measurement of
downhole conditions. As such, the operator often conducts drilling operations based on
"feel" that they may have developed over time from their experience in the field.
However, while operator "feel" can be effective, it is only a qualitative determination of
drilling performance and, as a result, presents significant risks to the operators in terms
of operational efficiency of drilling as well as potentially increasing the risk of damaging
drilling equipment.
[0006] Moreover, the situation becomes more complicated when drilling off-vertical or
horizontal wells. In these types of wells, as the drillstring deviates from the vertical, the
drillstring becomes at least partially supported by the formation. As such, the measured
weight of the drillstring becomes difficult to measure at surface simply based on the hook
load. As a result, in this type of well the WOB often cannot be accurately determined
simply by measuring weight at surface. Moreover, as the driller may be required to apply
a substantial downhole force on the drillstring simply to overcome the friction of the
drillstring lying against the formation, the actual force being applied at the bit face may
be substantially less than measured forces at surface. In other words, the measured
value of downhole force as determined at the surface does not reflect the actual value of
force that may exist at the drillbit.
                                               -2-

[0007] As such, differential pressure (DP), measured as the difference in drilling fluid
pressure between the motor and system pressure losses in a non-drilling state and the
pressure with the bit against the formation, can be used as an effective parameter to
determine the actual force being applied to the formation face by the drillbit. For
example, a particular downhole motor may typically operate with a pressure of 1000 psi.
The 1000 psi value may indicate that there is no force being applied on the drillbit at the
formation face. In other words, a measured DP of 1000 psi simply indicates that the
drillbit is spinning. However, as force is applied against the formation face, the required
operating pressure to maintain optimum torque of the drillbit against the formation will
increase as the resistance to drilling fluid flow increases due to the force of the drillbit
against the formation face. Similarly, as drilling progresses and material is removed from
the formation face, the force against the formation face will decrease which can be seen
as a drop in pressure at surface. Thus, DP can be an effective parameter in determining
how well drilling is progressing in some wells or at certain times of the drilling process.
[0008] In the past, in order to overcome these problems, autodrilling systems have been
developed and utilized in order to at least partially automate the drilling process. In an
automatic drilling process, drilling is controlled by equipment that typically obtains inputs
from various sensors, feeds the input data to a controller that interprets the inputs and
provides an output to drilling equipment.
[0009] Such systems, in various forms, have been applied to typical drilling equipment
and specifically the hoist system of a drilling rig. The automatic control equipment is
attached to the hoist system and its specific components such as a drawworks,
drawworks brake and the cabling that controls the upward and downward motion of the
drillstring. That is, in most rigs, the drawworks is activated to lift the drillstring and the
drawworks brake is used to control lowering of the drillstring. Thus, in the traditional rig,
no downward force above that of the weight of the drillstring can be applied to drillstring.
[0010] In other drilling systems no drawworks are used. In these systems, a hydraulic
lifting system is utilized that allows both a lifting force and a downward force to be
applied to the drillstring. Importantly, the downward force can be substantially higher
than simply the weight of the drillstring as a downward hydraulic pressure can be applied
to the drillstring. Such systems are effective in off-vertical wells.
                                               -3-

[0011] In controlling the drilling process, the more parameters that can be effectively
utilized within the drilling process, the more precisely the drilling process can be
controlled with its attendant benefits on results but also decreased maintenance
requirements if the equipment is being operated within preferred operational ranges.
[0012] A review of the prior art reveals that various automatic drilling systems have been
developed in the past. For example, United States patent 7,713,442 teaches a system
for drilling a borehole in which a first motor coupled to a drawworks is used to raise and
lower a drill stem and a second motor rotates the drill stem. The system includes a
control circuit that is coupled to the motors and sensors that obtain information including
 ROP, WOB, hook load and rotational speed. United States Patent 5,474,142 describes
an automatic drilling system that regulates drilling through a combination of drilling
parameters on a drilling rig having a drawworks.
[0013] Accordingly, there continues to be a need for improved autodrilling systems and,
in particular, for autodrilling systems that control a hydraulic hoist system on a rig with a
broader range of potential control parameters.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0014] In accordance with a first aspect of the invention, there is provided a system for
automatically drilling an oil well comprising: an autodrilling interface having an input
system enabling drilling parameter input data to be input and a display system enabling
display of system output data during drilling; a controller operatively connected to the
autodrilling interface; a hydraulic control system operatively connected to the controller
and rig drilling equipment; at least one sensor configured to the hydraulic control system
and the controller; wherein the controller receives parameter input data from the
autodrilling interface and at least one sensor during drilling and provides output
instructions to the hydraulic control system, the hydraulic control system operable to
control drilling based on controller instructions and current sensor data.
[0015] In another embodiment, the parameter input data is a set point and includes any
one of or a combination of rate of penetration (ROP), weight on bit (WOB) or differential
pressure (DP) of a drilling fluid across a down hole drilling motor.
                                               -4-

[0016] In a further embodiment, the autodrilling interface is a touchscreen having at
least one input area enabling input data to be input and at least one display areas
displaying output data.
[0017] In one embodiment, the display system displays any one of or a combination of
current WOB, ROP or DP as measured from the at least one sensor during drilling
and/or the display system displays any one of or a combination of set WOB, ROP and
DP as set-points.
[0018] In another embodiment, the input system enables user activation of one or more
drilling modes.
[0019] In yet a further embodiment, the at least one sensor includes any one of or a
combination of a blind end pressure sensor and rod end pressure sensor operatively
connected to the hydraulic control system for measuring the hydraulic pressure within a
hydraulic control cylinder on the drilling rig. Further, the at least one sensor may include
a differential mud pump pressure system and/or a position sensor operatively connected
to the hydraulic control system for measuring the relative position of a hydraulic control
cylinder on the drilling rig.
[0020] The system may also include a manual control interface operatively connected to
the controller enabling manual control of the hydraulic control system.
[0021] In another aspect, the invention provides a method for automatically drilling a
well with well drilling equipment, the well drilling equipment having a hydraulic control
system for raising and lowering a drill string, a drilling fluid pump for circulating drilling
fluid within the well and at least one sensor operatively connected to the hydraulic
control system for measuring hydraulic pressure within the hydraulic control system, a
controller and an autodrilling interface, wherein after manually setting at least one of rate
of penetration (ROP), weight on bit (WOB) or differential pressure (DP) as one or more
drilling parameters on the autodrilling interface and initiating drilling, the method
comprising the steps of: a)monitoring and measuring current ROP, WOB and/or DP; b)
increasing downhole hydraulic force if the WOB is below a set WOB value and
decreasing downhole hydraulic force if the WOB is higher that a set WOB value; c)
                                               -5-

increasing the rate of lowering of the drillstring if the ROP is below a set ROP value and
decreasing the rate of lower of the drillstring if the ROP is above a set ROP value; and/or
d) increasing downhole hydraulic force if DP is lower than a set DP value and
decreasing downhole hydraulic force if DP is higher than a set DP value.
[0022] In another embodiment, one of WOB, ROP or DP is set as a primary drilling
parameter, and the method further includes the step of dynamically adjusting the primary
parameter to one of WOB, ROP or DP not set as the primary drilling parameter during
drilling if the primary drilling parameter cannot be maintained.
[0023] In one embodiment, ROP, WOB or DP are set as a primary set-point parameter
within the PLC and priority is given to maintaining the primary set-point parameter while
drilling is progressing.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0024] The invention is described with reference to the accompanying figures in which:
          Figures 1 and 1A are schematic diagrams of drilling equipment utilized in
          accordance with the prior art;
          Figure 1 B is a schematic diagram of a top drive drilling rig utilizing the automatic
          drilling system in accordance with the invention;
          Figure 2 is a generalized schematic overview of the hydraulic control system in
          accordance with one embodiment of the invention;
          Figure 2A is a schematic overview of the electronic control system and sensors
          in accordance with one embodiment of the invention;
          Figure 3 is a representation of a human machine interface (HMI) in accordance
          with one embodiment of the invention;
          Figure 4 is a representative process flow diagram in accordance with one
          embodiment of the invention; and,
                                               -6-

         Figure 5 is a representative flow chart detailing the logic of the primary functions
         of the hydraulic control system in accordance with one embodiment of the
         invention.
                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
[0025] With reference to the figures, systems and methods for automatically drilling oil
wells are described. Importantly, the systems and methods described herein improve the
efficiency of drilling as well as worker safety through the automation of parts of the
drilling process.
[0026] Typical drilling equipment is shown in Figures 1 and 1A. As shown, a typical
drilling rig (Figure 1) includes a derrick 14 for supporting the drilling equipment. The
derrick is supported on a rig floor 17, 21 which also supports a stand 16 of drill pipe
secured with a monkey board 15. As drilling progresses, drill pipe 16 is manoeuvered
into position over the well bore and connected to the downhole drillstring 25 and
thereafter rotated to effect movement of the drillbit 26 against the formation rock. During
drilling, drilling fluid is pumped by mud pump 4 from mud tank 1 through suction line 3,
vibrating hose 6, standpipe 8, Kelly hose 9 and gooseneck 10 to the top of the drillstring.
The drilling fluid is pumped downwardly through the drillstring through drillbit 26 where it
returns to surface within the annulus between the formation and drillstring. Upon
returning to the surface, drilling fluid passes through a bell nipple 22 and flow line 28
where it is then passed over a shale shaker 2 that separates drilling fluid from drill
cuttings.
[0027] Drill pipe is manoeuvered from the pipe stand by a travelling block 11, drill line
12, crown block 13 under the operation of drawworks 7 which is also used to both lift and
lower the drillstring within the well bore. Drillpipe is secured to the drawworks by swivel
18 (or top works). A kelly drive 19 provides rotary force to the drillstring above rotary
table 20.
[0028] In more modern systems, as shown in Figure 1A a top drive system 30 is used to
provide rotational force to the drillstring from the top of the drillstring. The top drive
system is raised and lowered by a drawworks 7 on a substructure 32 through travelling
block 11.
                                             -7-

[0029] In each system, motors 5 provide power to the drawworks, mud pumps and drive
systems. Wells also include blowout preventors (BOP) 23, 24 above casing head 27 as
known.
[0030] In still other systems, drawworks lifting/lowering systems on the drilling rig are
replaced with hydraulic hoist systems 40 with hydraulic cylinders 40a that control and
manage lifting and lowering of the drillstring during drilling as shown in Figure 1B. These
systems generally include a mast 33, top drive 30, travelling crown 34, chain 36, and
chain anchor 38 that collectively operate to enable drilling. In these systems, the mast 33
can be lighter than a conventional derrick as the mast is primarily used to guide the top
drive 20. In addition, the rig is generally more compact as there is no drawworks behind
the mast. Importantly, hydraulic hoist systems allow downhole pressures to be applied to
the drillstring and/or the drill bit. In these systems, hoisting tonnage of the rig is
transmitted through the base of the hydraulic cylinders and through the substructure 32.
The ability to push downhole is particularly important in deviated or horizontal wells.
[0031] In accordance with the invention, systems and methods are provided to enable
automatic drilling and more specifically to systems that electronically monitor and adjust
hydraulic pressures in the hoist system of Figure 1B, to monitor drillstring position, to
monitor and control drilling fluid pump pressures and to otherwise control drillstring
movement. Control of the hydraulic hoist system is based on sensor readings obtained
at different locations in the drilling equipment and drilling fluid/mud pressures are
measured at surface on the interior and annular sides of the drillstring.
[0032] In more specific embodiments, the technology provides a computer-controlled
drilling system that obtains sensor input to determine operating parameters including
weight on bit (WOB), rate of penetration (ROP) and/or differential mud pressure (DP),
that automatically adjust hydraulic pressures in the hoist system to control drillstring
movement, and drill bit rotation and adjust these parameters to optimize drilling
performance. In these embodiments, the technology allows continuous monitoring and
dynamic control over WOB, ROP and DP which overcomes the problem of an operator
having to monitor and respond to multiple dynamic inputs from the drilling process.
                                              -8-

AutodrillingSystem
[0033] The autodrilling system generally consists of five subsystems as shown in Figure
2 including a human-machine interface (HMI) or autodrilling interface 50, manual control
interface 51, a controller 52 (such as a programmable logic controller (PLC), single
board computer (SBC) or the like), hydraulic control system 54 and hydraulic hoist
system 56. The manual control interface 51 enables basic manual control of the drilling
system. The autodrilling interface 50 enables operator input to the system and displays
system output information to the operator to enable autodrilling to be set up and to be
controlled. The controller 52 receives and interprets operator input from either the
autodrilling interface 50 or manual control interface 51 and provides output to the
hydraulic control system 54 that in turn controls the operation of the hydraulic hoist
system 56. Various sensors including a blind end pressure sensor 56a, rod end pressure
sensor 56b, position encoder 56c and mud pressure sensors 56d are configured to the
system to provide feedback to the controller and autodrilling interface for the control of
the system hydraulics and for display and input to/by an operator.
[0034] Figure 2A shows a more detailed layout of the system components in
accordance with one embodiment. As shown, the autodrilling interface 50 is connected
to the controller 52 which in turn is connected to a manual control interface 51 (or rig
control panel) that would normally be present within a driller's control cabin 53. The
controller is connected to a servo valve system 55 that controls the flow of hydraulic fluid
within the hydraulics system and receives input from the various sensors for display on
the autodrilling interface and/or display on the rig control panel. The servo valve system
55 is connected to the hydraulic hoisting system 56, a mast sheave system 59 and a
mud pump system 61.
[0035] Typical sensors within the hydraulic hoisting system 56, mast sheave system 59
and mud pump system 61 include oil supply pressure 56f, cylinder blind end pressure
56a, cylinder rod pressure 56b, Pilot Operated check 56g, and cylinder hydraulic
proportional control 56e sensors. The mud pump system 61 will typically include at least
one mud pump pressure 56d sensor within the drillstring and the mast sheave will
typically include a cylinder position 56c sensor. Collectively, the sensors provide
feedback to the controller 52 for interpretation and to allow the controller to control
                                             -9-

system hydraulics to enable automatic drilling control. In addition, the controller will
interpret the values obtained from each sensor and produce an alarm signal to the
autodrilling interface and rig control panel in the event of a threshold event. For example,
the oil pressure sensor 56f monitors the oil pressure in the hydraulic oil system. In the
event that the PLC detects an oil pressure drop below a threshold value, the controller
will produce an alarm signal to the autodrilling interface and rig control panel to signal
the need for operator input. Preferably, the alarm signal is both a visual signal, such as a
pop-up window on the autodrilling interface, and an audible signal.
AutodrillingInterface/HMI
[0036] In one embodiment, the autodrilling interface/HMI 50 is a touchscreen as shown
in Figure 3. The HMI generally allows the operator to set operational parameters to
enable operation of the system as well as providing visual output to the operator
regarding the operation and performance of the system. As shown, the autodrilling
interface enables the operator to set parameters including weight on bit (WOB) 50a,
rate of penetration (ROP) 50b and differential pressure (DP) 50c. For each parameter, a
manually input set point can be entered with a further display of the actual or current
measured value during autodrilling. In addition, the autodrilling interface may also
provide visual output as to whether or not a particular parameter is enabled or not.
[0037] In operation, and as explained in greater detail below, for the primary function of
enabling automatic drilling, the operator may enter a set point for one or more of the
parameters     and    thereafter enable drilling.    Thereafter, as automatic drilling      is
commenced, the controller will monitor feedback from               the sensors and make
adjustments to the hydraulic control systems to maintain drilling at the set points.
[0038] In addition, within the system, there are preferably multiple modes of operation.
 In each mode, values (or ranges) for the one or more of the parameters can be set and
the system will seek to control drilling such that drilling progresses within the set ranges.
 Each parameter can be set as a primary parameter, with the remaining parameters not
set or set as secondary or tertiary parameters. Thus, with the three parameters, 13
modes of operation are possible based on the various possible combinations of the
                                              -10-

parameters wherein one of the parameters is always a primary parameter and the
secondary and tertiary parameters are optional.
                         Table 1-Possible Parameter     Combinations
                         Primary           Secondary    Tertiary
                         WOB
                         ROP
                         DP
                         WOB               ROP
                         WOB               DP
                         ROP               WOB
                         ROP               DP
                         WOB               ROP          DP
                         WOB               DP           ROP
                         ROP               WOB          DP
                         ROP               DP           WOB
                         DP                ROP          WOB
                         DP                WOB          ROP
[0039] Generally, only one parameter will control the drilling sequence at a given time. If
the operator wishes the control system to ignore a parameter, then the parameter can be
set as "disabled" and thereby be displayed as a disabled parameter on the main screen.
In the event that the set parameter has a malfunction, such as a feedback sensor failing,
then the system will stop and hold the load. The operator may then disable the
parameter and allow control either manually or through other working control routines.
[0040] The autodrilling interface also allows operator input to provide manual control of
the system to prepare the drilling equipment for autodrilling. Such input includes the
ability to raise or lower the drill string, set the pump pressure or stopping all operations.
In addition, other parameters may be displayed back to the operator including for
example, pump pressure, hook load and/or top drive height.
Operation
[0041] With reference to Figures 4 and 4A, the system is generally operated as follows:
[0042] Initially, the operator will enable "Drill Mode" on the autodrilling interface. The
operator will enter desired alarm and warning settings as well as set the drill parameters.
After the desired settings and parameters have been entered, the operator will enable
the autodrilling system which will then perform a sensor check to ensure the system
                                                -11-

sensors are operating properly. If the sensor check is ok, the hydraulic system will be
activated for drilling. If the sensor check returns an error, an alarm signal will be
presented to the operator.
[0043] Once the operator has received verification that the hydraulic system has been
activated, the operator will be prompted to start autodrilling.
[0044] In one embodiment, the autodrilling process will start by prompting the operator
to lift the drillstring off bottom. In this case, using the lift buttons on the autodrilling
interface, the operator will lift the drillstring off the bottom.
[0045] Alternatively, the autodrilling interface will automatically lift the drillstring off
bottom after actuation of the hydraulic system. Automatic lifting may be achieved by the
system measuring the current hookload, initiating lifting and monitoring the hookload
and/or rate of change of hookload.
[0046] In the manual case, the autodrilling interface will then prompt the operator to
confirm that the drillstring is off bottom. If the drillstring is confirmed as being off bottom,
the system will measure the hookload and the mud pump pressure while off bottom as
baseline values. Alternatively, the autodrilling interface will give the operator the option
of manually entering the hookload and/or stringweight. The system will then begin to
lower the drillstring towards the bottom in a controlled manner based on the ROP
settings, if activated, or at a fixed rate.
[0047] As the WOB increases as a result of contacting the bottom, the system will
operate to drill within the set parameters. While drilling is underway, when a parameter
value is reached, that value will be capped. For example, for a given set WOB value, the
system will continue to lower the drillstring such that the measured WOB will be less
than the set value. If ROP is set as well, the system will be simultaneously measuring
the WOB and ROP values. If the WOB maximum value is reached and the ROP value is
not reached, the WOB value will be maintained but not exceeded.
[0048] Similarly, in the event that the ROP value is reached, for example if drilling
through a soft formation, the system will hold the ROP value but allow the WOB value to
drop. If drilling conditions change, and the ROP value is not being met the WOB will
                                                  -12-

increase. If the system cannot maintain these conditions during the course of the drilling
sequence the system will notify the operator and new weight on bit, rate of penetration,
and differential pressure settings may need to be entered. Generally, the system will
operate to ensure that drilling progresses smoothly.
[0049] During drilling, the system will normally be able to provide hands-off control while
the system may be encountering dynamic changes in the drilling conditions such as
changes in formation conditions. However, for safety reasons, the system will shut-down
if as a maximum value is reached, the system cannot maintain the parameter in question
below the set value.
[0050] In addition, autodrilling will stop if any shutdown input is received from another
source, such as an emergency shutdown input, control cabin manual input (eg. joystick
movement), a major rig shutdown event and/or a self-diagnostic alarm that may be
generated from within the autodrilling system. In the event that a shutdown event does
occur, the autodrilling process can be re-initiated as described above. Alternatively, the
autodrilling process can be continued from where it stopped drilling without having to re
initiate the drilling process from the start.
[0051] The autodrilling system also includes a floor saver system to provide appropriate
feedback to the driller regarding the position of the travelling assembly. That is, as the
travelling assembly reaches various levels during drilling, warnings are provided to the
operator to indicate that different levels have been reached. Higher warning levels may
be manually set depending on the particular dimensions of a specific rig but all will
generally include a hard shut-off system at the lowest level to prevent damage to rig
surface equipment. Upon completion of drilling with the current section of drill string, the
operator can either use the autodrilling interface or the manual drill rig controls to lift the
top drive in preparation for the next section of drillstring.
[0052] A representative flow chart of the decision making processes of the autodrilling
system is shown in Figure 5 for the different parameters if set.
[0053] As shown, if ROP is set and autodrilling has commenced, the system will
measure the current ROP. If the ROP is less than the set ROP, ROP may be increased
                                              -13-

by releasing hydraulic fluid from the lower chamber of the rig's hydraulic cylinders such
that the WOB is increased. In the case of a horizontal or deviated well this may also
require an increase in hydraulic pressure at the top of the hydraulic cylinders. The
system will then re-measure the current ROP and the loop will repeat. If the ROP is not
less than the set ROP and no alarm condition exists, the system will increase or hold
hydraulic fluid pressure within the lower chamber of the rig's hydraulic cylinders.
[0054] Similar routines are followed for set WOB and DP as shown in Figure 5.
 Differential Pressure
[0055] In the context of the technology, differential pressure (DP) is the measured
difference in drilling mud pressure before loading and after the drill bit has contacted the
formation face, and variations in the differential pressure are indicative of a change in
the downhole conditions, such as a harder formation. This change is registered by
sensors at surface that relay this information to the controller which then calculates the
optimum rate at which to drill.
[0056] Generally, if the measured DP value increases, indicating that flow of drilling fluid
through the drill bit is more difficult (i.e. reduced), possibly due to a harder formation, the
system may decrease or hold the WOB to allow the formation to be drilled and thereby
increase drilling fluid flow rates through the bit. If the DP value decreases indicating
rapid flow through the drill bit, the WOB may be increased.
Other System Features
[0057] Other features of the system may include the ability to work in multiple modes
simultaneously. In this embodiment, the system will monitor the different drilling
parameters namely two or more of WOB, DP and ROP as drilling is progressing. If one
of the set points of one of the drilling parameters is reached, that one drilling parameter
becomes the controlling parameter wherein the other parameters will be varied to
maintain the controlling parameter at its set point. Thus, if under drilling conditions, the
controlling parameter cannot be maintained, then the controlling parameter may then
dynamically change.
                                                 -14-

[0058] For example, WOB and ROP may be enabled. WOB is set at 10,000 daN and
ROP is set at 100 meters/hour. Initially, the drill bit is working in hard material and the
controlling WOB of 10,000 daN is obtained but the ROP is only 50 m/hour. Thereafter,
the drill bit encounters a softer formation and with a 10,000 daN WOB, the ROP
increases to 100 m/hour. In this case, the ROP will be automatically held at 100 m/hour
and the WOB would be reduced or held to ensure the ROP is not exceeded.
[0059] In another example, each of WOB, ROP and DP may be enabled. WOB is set at
10,000 daN, ROP is set at 100 meters/hour and DP is set at 1100 psi. In a hard
formation, the WOB may be reached but, as above, the ROP is not reached and the DP
is only 1050 psi. In this case, the system may then increase the WOB to increase the DP
value in an attempt to increase the ROP.
[0060] In a horizontal or deviated formation, WOB may not be able to be set or
measured accurately and thus, the operator may choose to engage DP as the primary
drilling parameter.
[0061] In addition, the system may also have the ability to change values while active,
set alarm condition ranges and the ability to save parameter combinations as preferred
drill modes.
[0062] For example, the system will allow different drilling modes to be created that may
be designed or set by the operator. For example, drilling modes such as "lateral rotate",
"lateral slide", "build rotate", "build slide", etc. may be created and saved by the operator.
Each of these drilling modes may be created based on an operator's experience in a
given type of formation.
[0063]    With respect to the alarm system, for each parameter, the alarm system may
include/require the ability to set any one of or a combination of maximum values, an
alarm value, a warning value, a set point and/or a minimum value. Such alarm conditions
may be set and saved for each drill mode. The system may also include maximum or
minimum parameters that cannot be overridden by the operator for safety reasons.
[0064] The system may include a modem interface to enable all data from the system to
be returned to a central server.
                                                 -15-

[0065] As known to those skilled in the art, the system may also include the ability to set
scaling parameters for different sensors to enable appropriate calibration. Similarly, the
floor saver values may be set from within the autodriller system.
[0066] Although the present invention has been described and illustrated with respect to
preferred embodiments and preferred uses thereof, it is not to be so limited since
modifications and changes can be made therein which are within the full, intended scope
of the invention as understood by those skilled in the art.
                                           -16-

CLAIMS
  1.   An autodrilling system for controlling operation of a drilling rig having one
       or more hydraulic drill string hoisting cylinders, the system comprising:
       a. a central controller for operating the cylinders with programmable logic
            control to meet specified drilling parameters;
       b. an autodrilling interface in data communication with the central
            controller, for setting the specified drilling parameters and
       c. a plurality of sensors associated with the cylinders and hydraulic
            conduits associated therewith, for generating data indicating status of
            operation of the cylinders; the sensors configured to transmit the data
            to the central controller for processing by the programmable logic
            control to modify operation of the cylinders to cause the drilling rig to
            meet the specified drilling parameters.
  2.   The system of claim 1, further including sensors associated with the
       drilling rig's drill bit.
  3.   The system of claim 2, wherein the specified drilling parameters include
       weight-on-bit (WOB), rate of penetration (ROP) and differential pressure
       (DP), or any combination thereof.
  4.   The system of claim 3, wherein the central controller calculates current
       WOB, ROP and DP from the data generated by the sensors.
  5.   The system of claim 1, further comprising a manual control interface
       operatively connected to the central controller for manual operation of the
       central controller.
  6.   The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors comprise a cylinder
       blind end pressure sensor, a cylinder rod end pressure sensor, a cylinder
       position sensor, a hydraulic oil pressure sensor and a hydraulic
       proportional control sensor.
  7.   The system of claim 6, wherein the plurality of sensors further comprises a
       mud pump pressure sensor.
  8.   The system of claim 1, wherein the autodrilling interface includes a display
       for indicating current drilling parameters and the specified drilling
       parameters.
                                           17

9.  The system of claim 1, wherein the programmable logic control is
    programmed to shut down the operation of the cylinders when one or more
    of the specified drilling parameters cannot be reached and/or maintained.
10. An autodrilling system for controlling operation of a drilling rig having one
    or more hydraulic drill string hoisting cylinders, the system comprising:
    a. a central controller for operating the cylinders with programmable logic
        control to meet specified drilling parameters;
    b. an autodrilling interface in data communication with the central
        controller, for setting the specified drilling parameters;
    c. a plurality of sensors associated with the drilling rig's drill bit, cylinders
        and hydraulic conduits associated therewith, for generating data
        indicating status of operation of the cylinders; the sensors configured to
        transmit the data to the central controller for processing by the
        programmable logic control to modify operation of the cylinders to
        cause the drilling rig to meet the specified drilling parameters.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the specified drilling parameters include
    weight-on-bit (WOB), rate of penetration (ROP) and differential pressure
    (DP), or any combination thereof.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the central controller calculates current
    WOB, ROP and DP from the data generated by the sensors.
13. The system of claim 10, further comprising a manual control interface
    operatively connected to the central controller for manual operation of the
    central controller.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of sensors comprise a
    cylinder blind end pressure sensor, a cylinder rod end pressure sensor, a
    cylinder position sensor, a hydraulic oil pressure sensor and a hydraulic
    proportional control sensor.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of sensors further comprises
    a mud pump pressure sensor.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the autodrilling interface includes a
    display for indicating current drilling parameters and the specified drilling
    parameters.
                                       18

17. The system of claim 10, wherein the programmable logic control is
    programmed to shut down the operation of the cylinders when one or more
    of the specified drilling parameters cannot be reached and/or maintained.
18. An autodrilling system for controlling operation of a drilling rig having one
    or more hydraulic drill string hoisting cylinders, the system comprising:
    a. a central controller for operating the cylinders with programmable logic
        control to meet specified drilling parameters including weight-on-bit
        (WOB), rate of penetration (ROP) and differential pressure (DP), or any
        combination thereof;
    b. an autodrilling interface in data communication with the central
        controller, for setting the specified drilling parameters; and
    c. a plurality of sensors associated with the drilling rig's drill bit, cylinders
        and hydraulic conduits associated therewith, for generating data
        indicating status of operation of the cylinders; the sensors configured to
        transmit the data to the central controller for processing by the
        programmable logic control to modify operation of the cylinders to
        cause the drilling rig to meet the specified drilling parameters.
19. The system of claim 18, further comprising a manual control interface
    operatively connected to the central controller for manual operation of the
    central controller.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the plurality of sensors comprise a
    cylinder blind end pressure sensor, a cylinder rod end pressure sensor, a
    cylinder position sensor, a hydraulic oil pressure sensor and a hydraulic
    proportional control sensor.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the plurality of sensors further comprises
    a mud pump pressure sensor.
22. The system of claim 18, wherein the autodrilling interface includes a
    display for indicating current drilling parameters and the specified drilling
    parameters.
23. The system of claim 18, wherein the programmable logic control is
    programmed to shut down the operation of the cylinders when one or more
    of the specified drilling parameters cannot be reached and/or maintained.
                                       19

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
