ABSTRACT
A towed vehicle hitch tongue includes movably connected front and rear tongue
members, and a fully exposed master cylinder connected at opposite ends thereof to the
tongue members such that a rearward force urging the front tongue member toward the
rear tongue member forces pressurized braking fluid out of a port thereof into a braking
circuit configured to exert a braking force. The braking circuit prevents braking until the
rearward force warrants braking, provides dampening of the brake action, allows the
towed vehicle to reverse, and can provide emergency stopping and dampening of
movement of the hitch tongue. Instead of using movable front and rear tongue members,
sensors can detect what the towed vehicle is doing, and apply appropriate braking force
in response.

   BRAKING SYSTEM FOR TOWED VEHICLES
   This disclosure relates to the field of towing vehicles and in particular a braking system
   for towed vehicles.
 5
   CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
   The present application is a divisional application of Australian Patent Application No.
   <removed-apn>, having an application date of 8 March 2016, and claiming priority from
10 Canadian Patent Application No. 2889117. The full disclosure of these applications is
   incorporated herein by reference.
   BACKGROUND
15 Braking systems are required for towed vehicles such as trailers and the like where the
   brakes of the towing vehicle are not sufficient to provide adequate braking for the added
   weight of the towed vehicle.
   Surge or inertial braking systems use the force exerted by the towed vehicle on the
20 towing vehicle through the tow hitch apparatus to activate brakes on the towed vehicle.
   Such surge braking systems are disclosed for example in United States Patent Numbers
   4,889,212 to Temple, 7,806,240 to Walstrom, et al., and 8,708,112 to Maisonneuve.
   Electronic braking systems for towed vehicles are also known where a variety of sensors
25 determines when braking of the towed vehicle is required, and activates the towed vehicle
   brakes.   Such electronic braking systems are disclosed for example in United States
   Patent Numbers 8,267,485 to Barlsen, et al. and 8,540,323 to Broch, et al.
                                                 1

   Large agricultural air seeders typically include a product cart carrying product tanks that,
   when full of agricultural products, weigh well over twice as much as the tractor towing
   the air seeder.   Larger product carts are sometimes mounted on tracks to reduce soil
   compaction. The product cart can be towed either behind the furrow opener implement
 5 of the air seeder, or between the furrow opener implement and the tractor, such that a
   train of towed vehicles is formed. In addition to the product cart and furrow opener, it is
   common to add another tank specifically for carrying fertilizer in its gaseous or liquid
   form. Braking systems are necessary to control the train, particularly during transport
   when the equipment is rolling freely behind the tractor on inclined ground surfaces.
10
   A train including a product cart, furrow opener implement, and extra fertilizer tank can
   outweigh the towing tractor by over 1.5 times when empty and when this heavy train is
   being towed at high transport speeds, it can cause control issues.       Due to the heavy
   weight of the unloaded train and the high transport speeds that can be achieved, an
15 unloaded implement train can still be hazardous. Because of the heavy weight of the cart
   and the considerable distance between the tractor as a braking power source and the cart,
   providing effective braking for air seeders using conventional towed vehicle braking
   systems is problematic.
20 SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
   The present disclosure provides a braking system for towed vehicles that overcomes
   problems in the prior art.
25 In a first embodiment the present disclosure provides a towed vehicle apparatus
   comprising a hitch tongue for connecting a towed vehicle to the tow hitch of a towing
   vehicle for movement in an operating travel direction. The hitch tongue comprises a
   front tongue member with a front end thereof configured to engage the tow hitch and a
   rear tongue member attached to a front end of the towed vehicle, and the front tongue
                                                 2

   member is telescopically connected to the rear tongue member such that the front tongue
   member is movable in the operating travel direction with respect to the rear tongue
   member from a fully extended position when the towing vehicle is exerting a towing
   force in the operating travel direction, to a fully retracted position. A front cylinder lug
 5 extends outward from the front tongue member and a rear cylinder lug extends outward
   from the rear tongue member.       An extendable master cylinder has a first end thereof
   connected to the front cylinder lug and a second end thereof connected to the rear
   cylinder lug such that a rearward force urging the front tongue member toward the fully
   retracted position forces pressurized braking fluid out of a pressurized fluid port of the
10 master cylinder. A braking circuit is connected to the pressurized fluid port of the master
   cylinder and configured such that pressurized braking fluid expelled from the pressurized
   fluid port exerts a braking force on wheels of the towed vehicle.
   The towed vehicle apparatus of the present disclosure provides a smoothly functioning
15 sliding hitch tongue that serves to operate a master cylinder for actuating a brake cylinder
   for use with very large towed vehicles with weights in excess of 50 or 60 tons.
   Maintenance is simplified by having the master cylinder fully exposed, and by providing
   a removable bushing section that facilitates bushing replacement.
20 In a second embodiment the present disclosure provides a braking system for a towed
   vehicle, the towed vehicle including a hitch tongue adapted for connection at a front end
   thereof to a towing vehicle.       The system comprises an extendable master cylinder
   comprising a pressurized fluid port at a first end thereof and a reservoir port at a second
   end thereof, the master cylinder mounted in the hitch tongue such that a rearward force
25 urging the hitch tongue rearward exerts a corresponding force on the master cylinder and
   forces pressurized braking fluid out of a pressurized fluid port of the master cylinder. A
   brake conduit connects the pressurized fluid port of the master cylinder to an inlet of a
   brake cylinder, the brake cylinder operative to exert a braking force on wheels of the
   towed vehicle when pressurized braking fluid enters the inlet thereof. A first sequence
                                                 3

   valve in the brake conduit is configured to prevent flow through the brake conduit until
   pressurized braking fluid at the inlet thereof reaches a first pressure, and to open a path
   from the inlet thereof to an outlet thereof to allow braking fluid to flow through the brake
   conduit when pressurized braking fluid at the inlet thereof exceeds the first pressure. A
 5 first restrictive orifice is present in the brake conduit between the outlet of the first
   sequence valve and the inlet of the brake cylinder. A reversing valve in the brake conduit
   is configured such that when a reversing control is in a braking position, the reversing
   valve provides a path from the inlet thereof to an outlet thereof such that pressurized
   braking fluid flows through the brake conduit, and when the reversing control is in a
10 reversing position the reversing valve closes the path from the inlet thereof to the outlet
   thereof, and provides a path from the outlet thereof to a fluid reservoir such that
   pressurized braking fluid at the inlet of the brake cylinder is relieved to a fluid reservoir.
   A first return conduit is connected at one end to the brake conduit between the first
   restrictive orifice and the inlet of the brake cylinder, and is connected at an opposite end
15 thereof to the pressurized fluid port of the master cylinder, and a first check valve in the
   first return conduit is configured to allow braking fluid flow from the inlet of the brake
   cylinder to the pressurized fluid port of the master cylinder, and to prevent braking fluid
   flow from the pressurized fluid port of the master cylinder to the inlet of the brake
   cylinder. A second return conduit connects the fluid reservoir to the pressurized fluid
20 port of the master cylinder, and a second check valve in the second return conduit is
   configured to allow braking fluid flow from the fluid reservoir to the pressurized fluid
   port of the master cylinder, and to prevent braking fluid flow from the pressurized fluid
   port of the master cylinder to the fluid reservoir.       A reservoir conduit connects the
   reservoir port of the master cylinder to the fluid reservoir.
25
   The braking system prevents braking during gradual slowing down of the towing vehicle,
   or on shallow inclines, provides dampening of the brake action, and allows for the
   operator to reverse the towed vehicle without the brakes being activated. Emergency
   stopping and dampening of sliding movement of the hitch tongue are provided as well.
                                                  4

   In a third embodiment the present disclosure provides a braking system for an air seeder,
   where the air seeder includes a towed vehicle with a hitch tongue extending forward from
   the towed vehicle and adapted at a front end thereof for connection to a towing vehicle.
 5 The system comprises a brake cylinder operative to exert a braking force on wheels of the
   air seeder when pressurized braking fluid enters an inlet thereof, wherein the braking
   force increases as a pressure of the pressurized braking fluid increases, and a pressurized
   braking fluid source.     A proportional valve is connected at an input thereof to the
   pressurized braking fluid source and connected at an output thereof to the inlet of the
10 brake cylinder. The proportional valve is operative to reduce an input braking fluid
   pressure at the input thereof to a selected output pressure at the output thereof. A sensor
   apparatus is operative to detect a braking requirement for the towed vehicle, and a control
   module is operative to receive sensor information from the sensor apparatus and
   operative to vary the output pressure at the output of the proportional valve in response to
15 received sensor information to achieve the selected output pressure that causes the brake
   cylinder to exert the braking force that meets the braking requirement.
   The braking system provides smooth braking action by sensing what the towed vehicle is
   doing, and applying brake force as required in response. The system requires no moving
20 parts that can be damaged by large forces encountered where, for example the product
   cart is towed between the tractor and the furrow opener implement.
   DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
25 While the invention is claimed in the concluding portions hereof, preferred embodiments
   are provided in the accompanying detailed description which may be best understood in
   conjunction with the accompanying diagrams where like parts in each of the several
   diagrams are labeled with like numbers, and where:
                                                 5

   Fig. 1 is a schematic side view of an embodiment of the towed vehicle apparatus of the
   present disclosure, where the towed vehicle is a product cart towed at the rear end of an
   air seeder;
 5 Fig. 2 is a perspective exploded view of the hitch tongue of the embodiment of Fig. 1;
   Fig. 3 is a schematic sectional view of the bushing section of the embodiment of Fig. 1
   with the shaft of the front tongue member inserted in the cylindrical aperture defined
   by the front and rear bushings;
10
   Fig. 4 is a schematic assembled view of the hitch tongue of Fig. 2;
   Fig. 5 is a side view of the hitch tongue of Fig. 2 with the front tongue member in the
   fully extended position;
15
   Fig. 6 is a side view of the hitch tongue of Fig. 2 with the front tongue member in the
   fully retracted position;
   Fig. 7 is a top view of the brake circuit of the embodiment of Fig. 1 installed on the
20 product cart, with tanks of the product cart removed for illustration;
   Fig. 8 is a schematic view of the braking circuit of the embodiment of Fig. 1;
   Fig. 9 is a schematic side view of an air seeder where the product cart is towed
25 between the tractor and the furrow opener implement;
   Fig. 10 is a schematic view of the control and circuits for an alternate braking system
   shown in Fig. 11;
                                              6

      Fig. 11 is a top view of an alternate brake circuit suited for use on, and shown installed
      on the air seeder product cart of Fig. 9, with tanks of the product cart removed for
      illustration;
 5    Fig. 12 is a schematic sectional side view of the force sensor of the brake circuit of Fig.
      11 that is operative to sense a rearward force exerted on the hitch tongue;
      Fig. 13 is a schematic perspective view of an alternate arrangement of a hitch tongue
      for use with the embodiment of Fig. 1 with the front tongue member in the rearward
10    position;
      Fig. 14 is a schematic perspective view of the hitch tongue of Fig. 13 with the front
      tongue member in the forward position;
15    Fig. 15 is a schematic top view of the hitch tongue of Fig. 13 with the front tongue
      member in the forward position.
   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE ILLUSTRATED EMBODIMENTS
20 Fig. 1 schematically illustrates a common configuration of an air seeder 1 where the
   furrow opener implement 3 is towed behind the tractor 5 and the product cart 7 is towed
   behind the furrow opener implement 3.
   An embodiment of a towed vehicle apparatus 10 of the present disclosure is installed on
25 the hitch tongue 9 that connect the towed vehicle, here being the product cart 7, to the
   tow hitch 11 of a towing vehicle, here being the furrow opener implement 3, for
   movement in an operating travel direction T. As illustrated in Figs. 2-6, the hitch tongue
   9 comprises a front tongue member 13 with a front end 15 thereof configured to engage
                                                 7

   the tow hitch 11, and a rear tongue member 17 attached to a front end of the product cart
   7.
   In the illustrated hitch tongue 9 the front tongue member 13 is telescopically connected to
 5 the rear tongue member 17 such that the front tongue member 13 is movable in the
   operating travel direction T with respect to the rear tongue member 17 from the fully
   extended position shown in Fig. 5 when the furrow opener implement 3 is exerting a
   towing force TF in the operating travel direction T to a fully retracted position shown in
   Fig. 6.
10
   A front cylinder lug 19 extends outward from the front tongue member 13 and a rear
   cylinder lug 21 extends outward from the rear tongue member 17, and an extendable
   master cylinder 23 has a first end 23A thereof connected to the front cylinder lug 19 and a
   second end 23B thereof connected to the rear cylinder lug 21.          With the telescoping
15 arrangement of the front and rear tongue members 13, 17 a rearward force RF urging the
   front tongue member 13 toward the fully retracted position pushes the rod 25 of the
   master cylinder 23 into the barrel 27 of the master cylinder 23 and forces pressurized
   braking fluid out of the pressurized fluid port 29 of the master cylinder 23.
20 The product cart 7 can weigh well over 100,000 pounds when full and so very large
   forces are exerted on the hitch tongue 9, and the telescoping mechanism must be strong
   enough to resist deformation in response to these forces. In the illustrated apparatus 10
   the front tongue member 13 comprises a cylindrical shaft 31 which is slidingly engaged
   in a cylindrical aperture 33 defined in the rear tongue member 17.          The rear tongue
25 member 17 has a bushing section 35 attached to the front end thereof by removable
   fasteners, illustrated as bolts 37. The bushing section 35 defines the cylindrical aperture
   33 with a first bushing 39A mounted at a front end of the bushing section 35 and a second
   bushing 39B mounted at a rear end of the bushing section 35.           Fig. 3 schematically
   illustrates the shaft 31 inserted in the bushings 39.
                                                   8

   The cylindrical shape of the shaft 31 and the corresponding holes in the bushings 39
   allows for these mating parts to be machined to close tolerances to form an engagement
   with little lateral movement. In use on a large product cart 7 weighing perhaps 120,000
 5 pounds when full the shaft 31 can be about 4.5 inches in diameter and the close tolerances
   facilitated by the circular shape reduce lateral movement to a minimum.
   Maintenance of the apparatus 10 is facilitated by the exposed location of the master
   cylinder where removal and replacement can be done simply by removing the pins
10 holding it in place. Similarly the rear bushing 39B can be easily accessed and replaced
   by removing the bolts 37 attaching the bushing section 35 to the rear tongue member 17.
   To define the range of telescoping travel of the front tongue member 13 with respect to
   the rear tongue member 17 a rear bearing plate 41 is attached to the front end of the
15 bushing section 35.     The rear bearing plate 41 includes first and second rear fastener
   portions 41A, 41B extending outward from opposite sides of the bushing section 35, and
   a front bearing plate 43 attached to a rear end of the front tongue member 13 includes
   first and second front fastener portions 43A, 43B extending outward from opposite sides
   of the front tongue member 13. A first fastener, illustrated as bolt 45A extends through
20 corresponding fastener holes 47A in the first front and rear fastener portions 41A, 43A on
   a first side of the shaft 31 and a second fastener, illustrated as bolt 45B extends through
   corresponding fastener holes 47B in the second front and rear fastener portions 41B, 43B
   on a second side of the shaft 31.
25 The fastener bolts 45A, 45B are slidingly engaged in the fastener holes 47A, 47B and
   include a fastener stop on each end thereof, provided by the head of each bolt 45 and a
   corresponding nut 49, configured to bear against the bearing plates 41, 43 when the front
   tongue member 13 is in the fully extended position as illustrated in Fig. 5.      The front
   tongue member 13 slides back freely on the bolts 45 from the fully extended position
                                                  9

   toward the fully retracted position of Fig. 6 in response to a rearward force RF exerted
   thereon, such as when the towing vehicle, here illustrated as furrow opener implement 3,
   slows down faster than the product cart 7, or when the product cart 7 is on a downward
   incline pushing against the furrow opener implement 3.
 5
   The towed vehicle apparatus 10 of the present disclosure provides a smoothly functioning
   sliding hitch tongue 9 that serves to operate a master cylinder for actuating a brake
   cylinder for use with very large towed vehicles with weights in excess of 50 or 60 tons.
   Maintenance is simplified by having the master cylinder fully exposed, and by providing
10 a removable bushing section 35 that facilitates bushing replacement.
   A braking circuit 51, schematically shown on the product cart 7 in Fig. 7, is connected to
   the pressurized fluid port 29 of the master cylinder 23 and is configured such that
   pressurized braking fluid expelled from the pressurized fluid port 29 exerts a braking
15 force on wheels 53 of the product cart 7. More typically it is contemplated the braking
   fluid used will be a liquid braking fluid however a gaseous fluid such as air, could be
   used as well. Also in larger product carts tracks are sometimes mounted on the wheels 53
   to reduce soil compaction.
20 A braking system is schematically illustrated in Fig. 8 that is suited for use with the
   towed vehicle apparatus 10 where the towed vehicle product cart 7 has a hitch tongue
   adapted for connection at a front end thereof to a towing vehicle, and where an
   extendable master cylinder 23, with a pressurized fluid port 29, is mounted in the hitch
   tongue 9 such that a rearward force urging the hitch tongue 9 rearward exerts a
25 corresponding force on the master cylinder and forces pressurized braking fluid out of the
   pressurized fluid port 29 of the master cylinder 23.
   A brake conduit 55 connects the pressurized fluid port 29 of the master cylinder 23, on
   the path indicated by the arrows, to an inlet 57 of a brake cylinder 59 and the brake
                                                10

   cylinder 59 is operative to exert a braking force on the wheels 53 of the product cart 7
   when pressurized braking fluid enters the inlet 57.
   In order to reduce undue wear on the brakes, the braking circuit 51 is configured such that
 5 when the rearward force RF urging the front tongue member 13 toward the fully retracted
   position is less than an activation force, no braking force is exerted on the wheels 53. For
   example when the tractor 5 and furrow opener implement 3 are slowing gradually, there
   is no need for braking the cart wheels 53.
10 To provide this feature a first sequence valve 61 in the brake conduit 55 is configured to
   prevent flow through the brake conduit 55 until pressurized braking fluid at the inlet 61A
   of the first sequence valve 61 reaches a first selected pressure, and to open a path from
   the inlet 61A thereof to the outlet 61B of the first sequence valve 61 to allow braking
   fluid to flow through the brake conduit 55 when pressurized braking fluid at the inlet 61A
15 thereof exceeds the first selected pressure. The pressure is selected to allow flow through
   the brake conduit 55 when the rearward force RF, which generates the pressure, equals
   the activation force, which force is large enough to indicate the tractor 5 is slowing more
   quickly, or the product cart 7 is on a steep incline, and braking of the wheels 53 on the
   product cart is required.
20
   Once the rearward force RF equals the activation force, braking fluid begins to flow
   through the brake conduit 55 to the brake cylinder 59 and an initial braking force BF is
   exerted on the wheels 53, and as the rearward force RF increases, the pressure of the
   braking fluid increases and the braking force BF correspondingly increases.
25
   The braking circuit 51 is configured to direct pressurized braking fluid through a first
   restrictive orifice 63 in the brake conduit 55 between the outlet 61B of the first sequence
   valve 61 and the inlet 57 of the brake cylinder 59. The first restrictive orifice 63 restricts
   the flow of braking fluid though the brake conduit 55 and reduces the rate of increase in
                                                  11

   the braking force BF to a rate that is less than a rate of increase in the rearward force RF.
   This arrangement dampens the pressure fluctuations at the brake cylinder and makes the
   operation of the brakes smoother.
 5 The braking circuit 51 includes a first return conduit 65 connected at one end to the brake
   conduit 55 between the first restrictive orifice 63 and the inlet 57 of the brake cylinder 59,
   and connected at an opposite end thereof to the pressurized fluid port 29 of the master
   cylinder 23. A first check valve 67 in the first return conduit 65 is configured to allow
   braking fluid flow from the inlet 57 of the brake cylinder 59 back to the pressurized fluid
10 port 29 of the master cylinder 23, and to prevent braking fluid flow from the pressurized
   fluid port 29 of the master cylinder 23 to the inlet 57 of the brake cylinder 59.
   A second return conduit 69 connects a fluid reservoir 71 to the pressurized fluid port 29
   of the master cylinder 23, and a second check valve 73 in the second return conduit 69 is
15 configured to allow braking fluid flow from the fluid reservoir 71 to the pressurized fluid
   port 29 of the master cylinder 23, and to prevent braking fluid flow from the pressurized
   fluid port 29 of the master cylinder 23 to the fluid reservoir 71.
   The pressurized fluid port 29 is defined in the blind end of a barrel 27 of the master
20 cylinder 23, and a reservoir port 77 is defined in the rod end of the barrel 27. A reservoir
   conduit 75 connects the reservoir port 77 of the master cylinder 23 to the fluid reservoir
   71.   When the rearward force RF is no longer present and a towing force TF is exerted
   on the hitch tongue 9 the master cylinder 23 moves to the extended position drawing
   braking fluid from the brake cylinder 59 and the reservoir 71 into the blind end of the
25 barrel 27 through the pressurized fluid port 29 and pushing braking fluid out of the rod
   end of the master cylinder 23 through the reservoir port 77. The force on the hitch tongue
   9 can change quickly from a rearward force RF to a significant level of towing force TF
   causing braking fluid to be pushed out of the reservoir port 77 quickly and at high
   pressure.
                                                  12

   To smooth the operation of the master cylinder 23, a second restrictive orifice 79 is
   placed in the reservoir conduit 75 which restricts and slows flow of braking fluid out of
   the reservoir port 77. A third check valve 81 is connected to the reservoir conduit 75 in
 5 parallel with the second restrictive orifice 79 and is configured such that braking fluid
   flowing from the fluid reservoir 71 to the reservoir port 77 flows through the third check
   valve 81, and braking fluid flowing from the reservoir port 77 to the fluid reservoir 71 is
   prevented from flowing through the third check valve 81 and must flow through the
   second restrictive orifice 81.
10
   When the master cylinder 23 is in the extended position as seen in Fig. 8, a path 83 is
   opened around the piston 85 to allow braking fluid to flow between the pressurized fluid
   port 29 and the reservoir port 77. This feature ensures there is no pressure trapped in the
   brake conduit 55 and thus in the brake cylinder 59, when in the normally operated towing
15 position.
   It is commonly necessary to reverse towed vehicles, such as the product cart 7.         The
   braking circuit 51 includes a reversing valve 87 in the brake conduit 55 configured such
   that when a reversing control 89, typically located at the operator's station on the tractor
20 5, is in a braking position, the reversing valve 87 provides a path from the inlet 87A
   thereof to the outlet 87B thereof such that pressurized braking fluid flows through the
   brake conduit 55 to the brake cylinder 59. When the reversing control 89 is in a reversing
   position the reversing valve 87 closes the path from the inlet 87A thereof to the outlet
   87B thereof, preventing braking fluid from passing to the brake cylinder 59, and provides
25 a path from the outlet 87B to a relief port 87C connected to the fluid reservoir 71 such
   that pressurized braking fluid at the inlet 57 of the brake cylinder 59 is relieved to the
   fluid reservoir 71 and negligible pressure is present in any brake fluid in the brake
   cylinder 59.    Braking fluid forced out of the pressurized fluid port 29 when the rearward
                                                 13

   force RF is exerted to reverse the product cart 7, thus is blocked and does not get through
   to the brake cylinder 59.
   When the reversing control 89 is in the reversing position the reversing valve 87 may also
 5 provide a path from the inlet 87A to the relief port 87C such that any pressurized braking
   fluid from the pressurized port 29 of the master cylinder 23 will also be diverted to the
   fluid reservoir 71. Thus there is no appreciable pressure present in the brake conduit 55.
   In an emergency stopping situation, when the rearward force RF is greater than an
10 emergency stopping force, an emergency valve opens allowing the braking fluid to
   bypass the first restrictive orifice 63 such that an emergency braking force is exerted
   substantially immediately on the wheels 53.        The emergency valve is provided by a
   second sequence valve 91 in the brake conduit 55 configured to open a path from an inlet
   91A thereof, connected to the brake conduit 55 between the outlet 61B of the first
15 sequence valve 61 and the first restrictive orifice 63, to an outlet 91B thereof, connected
   to the brake conduit 55 between the first restrictive orifice 63 and the inlet 57 of the brake
   cylinder 59 when pressurized braking fluid at the inlet 91A thereof exceeds a second
   pressure emergency pressure that is greater than the first selected pressure which opens
   the first sequence valve 61. For example in one configuration the first pressure can be
20 700 pounds per square inch (psi) while the second pressure can be 2500 psi. The first and
   second pressure will be selected to suit the particular configuration of the towed vehicle
   apparatus 10. The valves and restrictive orifices can be mounted in a hydraulic module
   93 on frame of the product cart 7. The restrictive orifices can be adjusted to vary the flow
   restriction to achieve a desired dampening effect.
25
   Further pressure relief valves 90 connected to the fluid reservoir 71 will typically also be
   provided and calibrated to ensure fluid pressures do not exceed levels that could damage
   the components.
                                                14

   The braking system prevents braking during gradual slowing down of the towing vehicle,
   or on shallow inclines, provides dampening of the brake action, and allows for the
   operator to reverse the towed vehicle without the brakes being activated.        Emergency
   stopping and dampening of sliding movement of the hitch tongue are provided as well.
 5
   A typical air seeder includes two or three towed vehicles, typically a furrow opener
   implement, product tank cart, and sometimes a fertilizer wagon, in a train behind a
   towing tractor, each with a hitch tongue extending forward from the towed vehicle and
   adapted at a front end thereof for connection to a towing vehicle, and the order of the
10 vehicles in the train can vary from one air seeder to the next.
   Fig. 9 schematically illustrates a common configuration of an air seeder that includes a
   product cart 107 with a hitch tongue 109 extending forward from the product cart and
   adapted for attachment at a front end 115 thereof to a towing tractor 105, and attached at
15 a rear end thereof to a furrow opener implement 103.        In this configuration the forces
   exerted on the hitch tongue 109 are considerably greater than the forces exerted on the
   hitch tongue 9 described above as the hitch tongue 109 carries the high draft forces
   required to tow the furrow opener implement 103 along the field with the furrow openers
   engaged in the ground. This configuration also often has a product cart with only two
20 wheels such that considerable weight is carried by the hitch tongue bearing down on the
   drawbar 102 of the tractor.    The sliding front and rear hitch tongue members 13 and 17
   forming the hitch tongue 9 above, or any like arrangement with movable parts, would be
   problematic with the added forces required in this tow between tank configuration.
25 Figs. 10 and 11 schematically illustrate a braking system 110 for such a tow between tank
   configured air seeder. The system 110 comprises a brake cylinder 159 operative to exert
   a braking force BF on wheels 153 of the product cart 107, and on wheels 153' of the
   furrow opener implement 103 when pressurized braking fluid enters inlets 157, 157' of
   the brake cylinders 159, 159', and wherein the braking force BF increases as a pressure of
                                                15

   the pressurized braking fluid increases. A pressurized braking fluid source 112 has a
   pressurized supply conduit 114 connected to the input 116A of a proportional valve 116.
   An output 116B of the proportional valve 116 is connected to the inlets 157, 157' of the
   brake cylinders 159, 159', and a relief port 116C of the proportional valve 116 is
 5 connected to a fluid reservoir, here illustrated as the return conduit 118 of the pressurized
   braking fluid source 112. The proportional valve 116 is operative to reduce an input
   braking fluid pressure at the input 116A thereof to a selected output pressure at the output
   116B thereof.
10 The pressurized fluid source can conveniently be provided by the hydraulic system of the
   tractor 105. Fig. 10 schematically illustrates one suitable configuration using the tractor's
   hydraulic system where a hydraulic manifold 120 includes a fan valve 122, a meter valve
   124, and the proportional valve 116. The fan valve 122 connects the pressurized supply
   conduit 114 to a fan 126 and a fan return conduit 128 provides a path for braking fluid to
15 return from the fan 126 to the return conduit 118. The meter valve 124 connects the
   pressurized supply conduit 114 to a meter 130 and a meter return conduit 132 provides a
   path for braking fluid to return from the meter 130 to the return conduit 118.
   A sensor apparatus can comprise a variety of sensors and is operative to detect a braking
20 requirement for the product cart 107, and a control module 134 is operative to receive
   sensor information from the sensor apparatus and operative to vary the output pressure at
   the output 116B of the proportional valve 116 in response to received sensor information
   to achieve the selected output pressure that causes the brake cylinder 159 to exert the
   braking force BF that meets the braking requirement. The control module 134 is also
25 operative to open and close the fan valve 122 and meter valve 124 to start or stop the fan
   126 and product meter 130 so that the fan and meter can be stopped during transport
   while providing pressurized braking fluid to flow through the pressurized supply conduit
   114 to the proportional valve 116 to operate the brakes.
                                                  16

   In the illustrated braking system 110 instead of the detecting the rearward force on the
   hitch tongue indicating a braking requirement with a sliding tongue arrangement as
   described above, the sensor apparatus can comprise, as schematically illustrated in Fig.
   12, a force sensor 136 between the drawbar 102 and front end of the hitch tongue 109
 5 which is operative to detect the braking requirement by detecting when the rearward hitch
   force RF on the hitch tongue exceeds an activation hitch force. The activation hitch force
   corresponds to the rearward force that generates the first selected pressure required to
   open the first sequence valve 61 in the braking circuit 51 described above, and preventing
   brake activation until the rearward force reaches the activation hitch force reduces undue
10 wear on the brakes in the same manner as described above.
   When the rearward force RF reaches the activation hitch force the control module 134
   varies the output pressure at the output 116B of the proportional valve 116 to provide the
   output pressure that causes the brake cylinder 159 to exert a braking force BF that
15 maintains the rearward hitch force RF on the hitch tongue 109 between the activation
   hitch force and a selected maximum hitch force.
   Alternatively the sensor apparatus can comprise a gyroscope 138 operative to sense an
   inclination of the product cart 107, an accelerometer 140 operative to sense acceleration
20 of the product cart 107, and a weight sensor 142 operative to sense a weight of the
   product cart 107. To determine the total weight of the illustrated product cart 107 the
   weight sensor 142 includes a first load cell 144A operative to sense a weight supported
   by the front end of the hitch tongue load and second load cells 144B in the spindles of
   each wheel 153 that are operative to sense a weight supported by the wheels 153 of the
25 product cart 107. A direct speed sensor 146, or GPS speed sensor or the like, is operative
   to sense a speed of the product cart 107.
   The sensor apparatus detects the braking requirement by calculating from the sensor
   information that a forward force exerted by the hitch tongue 109 on the towing tractor
                                                17

   105 is greater than an activation hitch force.      This forward force corresponds to the
   rearward force RF detected by the force sensor 136, but is calculated from the sensor
   information rather than being measured directly.
 5 Again the control module 134 varies the output pressure at the output 116B of the
   proportional valve 116 to provide the output pressure that causes the brake cylinder 159
   to exert a braking force BF that maintains the forward force exerted by the hitch tongue
   109 on the towing tractor 105 between the activation hitch force and a selected maximum
   hitch force. In order to improve control, it is generally desirable to apply braking forces
10 to the wheels of the last vehicle in the train, and Fig. 11 schematically shows the output
   116B of the proportional valve 116 connected to brake cylinders 159' of the furrow
   opener implement 103 to apply braking forces to the wheels 153' thereof. Where the
   wheels 153' are large enough to provide sufficient braking it may be desirable that no
   braking force is applied to the wheels 153 of the product cart 107, and the output 116B of
15 the proportional valve 116 is connected only to the brake cylinders 159' on the furrow
   opener implement 103.
   Fig. 11 also schematically illustrates an accumulator 95 connected to the pressurized
   supply conduit 114. Pressurized fluid, liquid or air, can be stored in the accumulator
20 under pressure to provide pressurized fluid for braking when the pressurized braking fluid
   source 112 is inactive.    The pressurized fluid in the accumulator 95 can be used to
   provide a temporary parking brake.
   The braking system 110 provides smooth braking action by sensing what the product cart
25 107 is doing, and applying brake force as required in response. The system 110 requires
   no moving parts that can be damaged by large forces encountered where, for example the
   product cart 107 is towed between the tractor 105 and the furrow opener implement 103.
   Braking forces can be applied to either the product cart 107 or the furrow opener
   implement 103 or both.
                                                 18

   Figs. 13-15 schematically illustrate an alternate arrangement of a hitch tongue 209 for use
   with the towed vehicle apparatus 10 of the present disclosure.       The hitch tongue 209
   comprises a front tongue member 213 pivotally connected to the rear tongue member 217
 5 about a tongue pivot axis TPA defined by pin 212 oriented substantially perpendicular to
   the operating travel direction T such that a distal side 213A of the front tongue member
   213 that is distal to the tongue pivot axis TPA pivots from a forward position, shown in
   Fig. 14, when the towing vehicle is exerting a towing force TF in the operating travel
   direction T, to a rearward position, shown in Fig. 13, when the towing vehicle is exerting
10 a rearward force R. The front and rear cylinder lugs 219, 221, extend outward from the
   distal side 213A of the front tongue member 213 and a distal side 217A of the rear tongue
   member 217.
   A front fastener portion 243 extends out from the front tongue member 213 and a rear
15 fastener portion 241 extends out from the rear tongue member 217. A first fastener 245A
   extends through corresponding first fastener holes 247A in the front and rear fastener
   portions and a second fastener 245B extends through corresponding second fastener holes
   247B in the front and rear fastener portions 241, 243.
20 The first and second fasteners 245A, 245B are, like the sliding fasteners 45A, 45B
   described above, slidingly engaged in the corresponding fastener holes 247A, 247B and
   include a fastener stop on each end thereof, provided by the head of each bolt 245 and a
   corresponding nut 249, configured to bear against the fastener portions 241, 243 when the
   front tongue member 213 is in the forward towing position of Fig. 14.           The master
25 cylinder 223 is extended in response to a towing force TF and retracted in response to a
   rearward force RF.
   The foregoing is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention.
   Further, since numerous changes and modifications will readily occur to those skilled in
                                                 19

  the art, it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and operation
  shown and described, and accordingly, all such suitable changes or modifications in
  structure or operation which may be resorted to are intended to fall within the scope of
  the claimed invention.
5
                                               20

   CLAIMS
   1.   A towed vehicle apparatus comprising:
 5      a hitch tongue for connecting a towed vehicle to the tow hitch of a towing vehicle
        for movement in an operating travel direction;
        wherein the hitch tongue comprises a front tongue member with a front end
        thereof configured to engage the tow hitch and a rear tongue member attached to a
10      front end of the towed vehicle;
        wherein the front tongue member is movably connected to the rear tongue
        member such that the front tongue member is movable in the operating travel
        direction with respect to the rear tongue member from a forward towing position
15      when the towing vehicle is exerting a towing force in the operating travel
        direction, to a rearward braking position;
        a front cylinder lug extending outward from the front tongue member and a rear
        cylinder lug extending outward from the rear tongue member;
20
        an extendable master cylinder having a first end thereof connected to the front
        cylinder lug and a second end thereof connected to the rear cylinder lug such that
        a rearward force urging the front tongue member toward the fully retracted
        position forces pressurized braking fluid out of a pressurized fluid port of the
25      master cylinder;
        a braking circuit connected to the pressurized fluid port of the master cylinder and
        configured such that pressurized braking fluid expelled from the pressurized fluid
        port exerts a braking force on wheels of the towed vehicle.
30
                                             21

   2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the front tongue member is telescopically
      connected to the rear tongue member and one of the front and rear tongue
      members comprises a cylindrical shaft slidingly engaged in a cylindrical aperture
      defined in the other of the front and rear tongue members.
 5
   3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the rear tongue member comprises a bushing
      section attached to a front end thereof by removable fasteners, the bushing section
      defining the cylindrical aperture with a first bushing mounted at a front end of the
      bushing section and a second bushing mounted at a rear end of the bushing
10    section.
   4. The apparatus of claim 3 comprising a rear bearing plate attached to the front end
      of the bushing section, the rear bearing plate including first and second rear
      fastener portions extending outward from opposite sides of the bushing section,
15    and a front bearing plate attached to a rear end of the front tongue member, the
      front bearing plate including first and second front fastener portions extending
      outward from opposite sides of the front tongue member, and a first fastener
      extending through corresponding fastener holes in the first front and rear fastener
      portions on a first side of the shaft and a second fastener extending through
20    corresponding fastener holes in the second front and rear fastener portions on a
      second side of the shaft.
   5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the fasteners are slidingly engaged in the
      fastener holes and include a stop on each end thereof configured to bear against
25    the bearing plates when the front tongue member is in the forward towing
      position.
   6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the front tongue member is pivotally connected
      to the rear tongue member about a tongue pivot axis oriented substantially
30    perpendicular to the operating travel direction such that a distal side of the front
      tongue member distal to the tongue pivot axis pivots from a forward position
      when the towing vehicle is exerting a towing force in the operating travel
                                            22

       direction, to a rearward position when the towing vehicle is exerting a rearward
       force, and wherein the front and rear cylinder lugs extend outward from the distal
       side of the front tongue member and a distal side of the rear tongue member.
 5 7.  The apparatus of claim 6 comprising a front fastener portion on the front tongue
       member and a rear fastener portion on the rear tongue member, a first fastener
       extending through corresponding first fastener holes in the front and rear fastener
       portions and a second fastener extending through corresponding second fastener
       holes in the front and rear fastener portions.
10
   8.  The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the first and second fasteners are slidingly
       engaged in the corresponding fastener holes and include a stop on each end
       thereof configured to bear against the fastener portions when the front tongue
       member is in the forward towing position.
15
   9.  The apparatus of any one of claims 1 - 8 wherein the braking circuit is configured
       such that when the rearward force urging the front tongue member toward the
       rearward braking position is less than an activation force, no braking force is
       exerted on the wheels of the towed vehicle.
20
   10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the braking circuit is configured such that when
       the rearward force urging the front tongue member toward the rearward braking
       position is substantially equal to the activation force, an initial braking force is
       exerted on the wheels of the towed vehicle, and as the rearward force increases,
25     the braking force increases.
       11.     The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the braking circuit is configured to
       direct pressurized braking fluid through a restrictive orifice to reduce a rate of
       increase in the braking force to a rate less than a rate of increase in the rearward
30     force, and wherein when the rearward force is greater than an emergency stopping
       force, an emergency valve opens allowing the braking fluid to bypass the
                                             23

       restrictive orifice such that an emergency braking force is exerted substantially
       immediately on the wheels of the towed vehicle.
   12. A braking system for a towed vehicle, the towed vehicle including a hitch tongue
 5     adapted for connection at a front end thereof to a towing vehicle, the system
       comprising:
       an extendable master cylinder comprising a pressurized fluid port at a first end
       thereof and a reservoir port at a second end thereof, the master cylinder mounted
10     in the hitch tongue such that a rearward force urging the hitch tongue rearward
       exerts a corresponding force on the master cylinder and forces pressurized braking
       fluid out of a pressurized fluid port of the master cylinder;
       a brake conduit connecting the pressurized fluid port of the master cylinder to an
15     inlet of a brake cylinder, the brake cylinder operative to exert a braking force on
       wheels of the towed vehicle when pressurized braking fluid enters the inlet
       thereof;
       a first sequence valve in the brake conduit configured to prevent flow through the
20     brake conduit until pressurized braking fluid at the inlet thereof reaches a first
       pressure, and to open a path from the inlet thereof to an outlet thereof to allow
       braking fluid to flow through the brake conduit when pressurized braking fluid at
       the inlet thereof exceeds the first pressure;
25     a first restrictive orifice in the brake conduit between the outlet of the first
       sequence valve and the inlet of the brake cylinder;
       a reversing valve in the brake conduit, the reversing valve configured such that
       when a reversing control is in a braking position, the reversing valve provides a
30     path from the inlet thereof to an outlet thereof such that pressurized braking fluid
       flows through the brake conduit, and when the reversing control is in a reversing
                                              24

       position the reversing valve closes the path from the inlet thereof to the outlet
       thereof, and provides a path from the outlet thereof to a fluid reservoir such that
       pressurized braking fluid at the inlet of the brake cylinder is relieved to a fluid
       reservoir;
 5
       a first return conduit connected at one end to the brake conduit between the first
       restrictive orifice and the inlet of the brake cylinder, and connected at an opposite
       end thereof to the pressurized fluid port of the master cylinder; and
10     a first check valve in the first return conduit configured to allow braking fluid
       flow from the inlet of the brake cylinder to the pressurized fluid port of the master
       cylinder, and to prevent braking fluid flow from the pressurized fluid port of the
       master cylinder to the inlet of the brake cylinder;
15     a second return conduit connecting the fluid reservoir to the pressurized fluid port
       of the master cylinder;
       a second check valve in the second return conduit configured to allow braking
       fluid flow from the fluid reservoir to the pressurized fluid port of the master
20     cylinder, and to prevent braking fluid flow from the pressurized fluid port of the
       master cylinder to the fluid reservoir;
       a reservoir conduit connecting the reservoir port of the master cylinder to the fluid
       reservoir.
25
   13. The system of claim 12 comprising a second restrictive orifice in the reservoir
       conduit, and a third check valve connected to the reservoir conduit in parallel with
       the second restrictive orifice and configured such that braking fluid flowing from
       the fluid reservoir to the reservoir port flows through the third check valve, and
30     braking fluid flowing from the reservoir port to the fluid reservoir is prevented
                                              25

       from flowing through the third check valve and flows through the second
       restrictive orifice.
   14. The system of any one of claims 12 and 13 comprising a second sequence valve in
 5     the brake conduit configured to open a path from an inlet thereof, connected to the
       brake conduit between the outlet of the first sequence valve and the first
       restrictive orifice; to an outlet thereof, connected to the brake conduit between the
       first restrictive orifice and the inlet of the brake cylinder, when pressurized
       braking fluid at the inlet thereof exceeds a second pressure that is greater than the
10     first pressure.
   15. The system of any one of claims 12 - 14 wherein the pressurized fluid port is
       defined in a blind end of a barrel of the master cylinder, and the reservoir port is
       defined in a rod end of the barrel, and wherein when a towing force is exerted on
15     the hitch tongue the master cylinder moves to an extended position, and wherein
       when the master cylinder is in the extended position, a path is opened to allow
       braking fluid to flow between the pressurized fluid port and the reservoir port.
   16. A braking system for an air seeder, where the air seeder includes a towed vehicle
20     with a hitch tongue extending forward from the towed vehicle and adapted at a
       front end thereof for connection to a towing vehicle, the system comprising:
       a brake cylinder operative to exert a braking force on wheels of the air seeder
       when pressurized braking fluid enters an inlet thereof, and wherein the braking
25     force increases as a pressure of the pressurized braking fluid increases;
       a pressurized braking fluid source;
       a proportional valve connected at an input thereof to the pressurized braking fluid
30     source and connected at an output thereof to the inlet of the brake cylinder,
                                              26

       wherein the proportional valve is operative to reduce an input braking fluid
       pressure at the input thereof to a selected output pressure at the output thereof;
       a sensor apparatus operative to detect a braking requirement for the towed
 5     vehicle;
       a control module operative to receive sensor information from the sensor
       apparatus and operative to vary the output pressure at the output of the
       proportional valve in response to received sensor information to achieve the
10     selected output pressure that causes the brake cylinder to exert the braking force
       that meets the braking requirement.
   17. The system of claim 16 wherein the sensor apparatus comprises a force sensor
       operative to detect the braking requirement by detecting when a rearward hitch
15     force on the hitch tongue exceeds an activation hitch force, and wherein the
       control module varies the output pressure at the output of the proportional valve to
       provide the output pressure that causes the brake cylinder to exert a braking force
       that maintains the rearward hitch force on the hitch tongue at a level that is
       between the activation hitch force and a selected maximum hitch force.
20
   18. The system of claim 17 wherein the towed vehicle comprises a product tank cart
       and wherein the towing vehicle is a tractor, and comprising a furrow opener
       implement towed behind the product tank cart, and wherein the braking force is
       exerted on wheels of the furrow opener implement.
25
   19. The system of claim 16 wherein the sensor apparatus comprises a gyroscope
       operative to sense an inclination of the towed vehicle, an accelerometer operative
       to sense acceleration of the towed vehicle, a speed sensor operative to sense a
       speed of the towed vehicle, and a weight sensor operative to sense a weight of the
30     towed vehicle, and wherein the sensor apparatus detects the braking requirement
       by calculating from the sensor information that a forward force exerted by the
                                              27

       hitch tongue on the towing vehicle is greater than an activation hitch force, and
       wherein the control module varies the output pressure at the output of the
       proportional valve to provide the output pressure that causes the brake cylinder to
       exert a braking force that maintains the forward force exerted by the hitch tongue
 5     on the towing vehicle between the activation hitch force and a selected maximum
       hitch force.
   20. The system of claim 19 wherein the towed vehicle comprises a product tank cart
10     and wherein the towing vehicle is a tractor, and comprising a furrow opener
       implement towed behind the product tank cart, and wherein the braking force is
       exerted on wheels of the furrow opener implement.
15 21. The system of any one of claims 16 - 20 wherein the pressurized braking fluid
       source is provided by a tractor hydraulic supply, and wherein a hydraulic drive
       fan on the product cart and a hydraulic drive product meter on the product cart are
       connected to the tractor hydraulic supply through a corresponding fan valve and
       meter valve, and wherein the control module is operative to open and close the fan
20     valve and meter valve to start or stop the fan and product meter.
                                             28

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           1/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           2/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           3/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/7

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/7

