                                      (57) Abstract
A system for providing real-time information about venues, such as capacity, type,
location, and their patrons, such as age, gender, venue visits, sexuality and drink
preferences.

Editorial Note
  <removed-apn>
   There are only
     2 pages of
    Description.

Patent application
Title of patent
Real-time/live mobile app displaying the location and event details of venues/establishments (such
as bars, restaurants, nightclubs) and their patronage (demographics, numbers) provided through
GPS mobile technology.
Motivation and purpose
There is much confusion when deciding how to spend your weekend/or evening with friends,
including which bar/club to attend, which live band is currently playing in town and/or which
establishment is playing your most desired music. You may be in a foreign town and want to hit a
happening dancefloor, or sip cocktails in an underground jazz bar but have no idea what to expect
the venue experience will be like right now.
The app is aimed towards those that want to head out on the town and have live information
provided to them at their fingertips describing venue details/information including patronage
characteristics before deciding when and where to head out.
How it will work
The app will use proximity based GPS data information to map the nearest bars, clubs, restaurants
etc. as a map on a home screen. The map can be filtered according to characteristics such as live
bands, dancefloor, gay friendly, multi-level, sports etc. to help the customer decide more quickly
where to head out for the evening. The app will then provide real live data on the number of patrons
in the club, and other permissible characteristics such as gender, age etc. The app will also provide
details on the venue such as whether it is at or near capacity, the type of music that is playing,
opening and closing times, venue type, time to get there, approximate time to get in, entry fee etc.
In the case a venue is not doing so well, the venue has the option to incentivise customers to visit
their establishment by sending them promotional material such as free cocktails on arrival and/or
free entry if they require a fee to enter and/or other incentive as decided by the venue owner. This
will help attract business to the venue that requires extra patrons while also attracting the typical
customer during slower periods. Venues that are full may recommend alternative times with
improved capacity and/or alternative nearby establishments. If the customer displays interest in
attending a venue at capacity, the app will have the option to send you a notification on when the
establishment has improved capacity requiring you to spend less time waiting in line to enter your
favourite nightspot.
The data can also provide external agencies and other organisations with real life information on the
flow of individuals etc. Beneficiaries of live data can be sold and shared with emergency services
such as ambulance/police in the event of an incident, marketing companies, social media apps,
uber/taxis, event planners, city planners etc.
The app is aimed at creating multiple social benefits including the improved mobility of individuals,
the reduction of traffic to highly congested areas, live information for emergency services and anti
terrorism bodies, quality data that can be utilised to market products and services to target markets,
and the reduction in conflict and/or incidents as occurs in highly congested areas and nightspots
with long queues etc.
The app can also be linked to existing social media sites where pictures/videos may be posted and
advertised for greater exposure such as Facebook, Instagram and Twitter.

Originality
Currently there is no real-time information provided to consumers on the details of
establishments/venues/and special events such as the number of people in attendance, their typical
demographics/characteristics, event/venue details etc.
Currently there is only past-tense 'reviews' provided on establishments and events and/or live data
is provided sporadically throughout social media sites without any consistency to the consumer,
patron, establishment owner, or marketer.
The originality exists by merging real-time information onto a single platform that can benefit the
flow and allocation of customers, help customers decide where they wish to spend their
day/evening, and help establishment owners and marketers better understand their typical clientele
and how to better cater for them.
Name/logo
The name of the app has not been decided, however the logo will be presented as a cartoon night
owl that changes its appearance. As the app is targeted towards young adults and tourists staying up
till the early hours of the morning, the night owl symbolises this type of customer.

Editorial Note
  <removed-apn>
   There is only 1
   page of Claims.

Patent claims
1 - Ownership of online application/media platform that delivers real-time/live information of special
events/venues/establishments and their patrons details including:
     a) Special event/venue/establishment details including but not limited to patron capacity,
        venue type (bar, nightclub, restaurant, etc.), location, proximity to public transport, proximity
        of other venues and major landmarks, GPS, music type, dress code, theme, gay friendly, and
        other characteristics which best describe the venue not listed above.
     b) Patronage details including but not limited to patron age, gender, previous venues visited,
        typical time spent at previous venues/establishments, time spent at current
        venue/establishment, pictures and or videos posted and any other patron details that the
        patron wishes to disclose such as sexuality, drink preference, status, name, contact details.
     c) The retention and delivery of real-time and past data collected on the above details
        described.
     d) Home screen displaying a local map with filter to adjust for venue/establishment/special
        event type.
     e) Space for advertisements including those provided by external marketing companies, and
        advertisements as provided by establishment/venue owners/special event hosts.
     f) Space for advertisements of transport companies.
     g) Space for advertisements of other material deemed suitable to the patron and/or
        venue/establishment such as alcohol, drinks, clothing, food etc.
2 - Ownership of online app displaying real time/live proximity of individuals possessing mobile GPS
technology to venues/establishments/special events on a home screen with venues/establishments
and special events described as:
     a) Bars, pubs, nightclubs, sport venues including sporting stadiums, cricket, football grounds
        and sports bars, restaurants and other establishments such as public spaces that host special
        events including music festivals and/or other special events not listed above.
3 - Ownership of online app displaying logo of cartoon night owlflipping on a branch stick changing
its appearance to different colours and designs including the depiction of the owl's chest displaying
at any one time a:
     a) Love heart, rainbow flag, cowboy hat, sports gear, fruit hat, cap, bikini with cleavage, peace
        sign, eyepatch, polka dot, cross, black and white stripes, dollar sign, triangle, box, disco ball,
        cocktail glass, beer glass, wine class, cutlery, cup, mug.
4 - The sound of an owl being made upon opening the app to the home screen.

