                                           ABSTRACT
        A method of manufacturing bulked continuous carpet filament which, in various
embodiments, comprises: (A) grinding recycled PET bottles into a group of flakes; (B) washing
the flakes; (C) identifying and removing impurities, including impure flakes, from the group of
flakes; (D) passing the group of flakes through an expanded surface area extruder while
maintaining a pressure within the expanded surface area extruder below about 25 millibars; (E)
passing the resulting polymer melt through at least one filter having a micron rating of less than
about 50 microns; and (F) forming the recycled polymer into bulked continuous carpet filament
that consists essentially of recycled PET.

   SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MANUFACTURING BULKED CONTINUOUS
                                            FILAMENT
[001]    This     present   application    has   been    divided    out     of    Australian    patent
application 2015350080 (AU 2015350080). In the description in this specification reference
may be made to subject matter which is not within the scope of the appended claims. That
subject matter should be readily identifiable by a person skilled in the art and may assist in
putting into practice the invention as defined in the presently appended claims.
[0021    AU 2015350080 is the national phase entry in Australia of PCT international application
PCT/US2015/061145          (published   as   WO 2016/081495 Al).         The     full disclosure    of
WO 2016/081495 is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
BACKGROUND
[0031    Because pure virgin PET polymer is more expensive than recycled PET polymer, and
because of the environmental benefits associated with using recycled polymer, it would be
desirable to be able to produce bulked continuous carpet filament from 100% recycled PET
polymer (e.g., PET polymer from post-consumer PET bottles).
[004]    Alternatively or additionally, it would be desirable to at least provide the public with a
useful choice.
SUMMARY
[005]             The present invention provides a method of manufacturing bulked continuous
carpet filament, the method comprising: (A) providing a PET crystallizer; (B) passing a
plurality of flakes of recycled PET through the PET crystallizer to at least partially dry a surface
of the plurality of flakes of recycled PET; (C) providing a first extruder, the first extruder
comprising: a first extruder inlet and a first extruder outlet; a first satellite screw extruder, the
first satellite screw extruder comprising a first satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a
central axis of the first satellite screw; a second satellite screw extruder, the second satellite
screw extruder comprising a second satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a central axis
of the second satellite screw; a third satellite screw extruder, the third satellite screw extruder
comprising a third satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a central axis of the third
satellite screw; a fourth satellite screw extruder, the fourth satellite screw extruder comprising
a fourth satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a central axis of the fourth satellite screw,
                                                  1
10411318  .doex

wherein the first satellite screw, the second satellite screw, the third satellite screw, and the
fourth satellite screw are disposed at least partially within respective extruder barrels; a satellite
screw extruder support system that is adapted to rotate the first, second, third, and fourth
satellite screws about a main axis while the first, second, third and fourth satellite screws are
rotating about their respective central axes, the main axis being substantially parallel to: (a) the
central axis of the first satellite screw; (b) the central axis of the second satellite screw; (c) the
central axis of the third satellite screw; and (d) the central axis of the fourth satellite screw; and
a pressure regulation system that is adapted to maintain a pressure within the first extruder
below about 25 millibars; (D) using the pressure regulation system to reduce a pressure within
the first extruder to below about 25 millibars; (E) after passing the plurality of flakes of recycled
PET through the PET crystallizer, while maintaining the pressure within the first extruder below
about 18 millibars, passing the plurality of flakes of recycled PET through the first extruder via
the first extruder inlet to at least partially melt the plurality of flakes into a polymer melt such
that: (1) a first portion of the melt passes through the first satellite screw extruder, (2) a second
portion of the melt passes through the second satellite screw extruder, (3) a third portion of the
melt passes through the third satellite screw extruder, and (4) a fourth portion of the melt passes
through the fourth satellite screw extruder; (F) providing at least one spinning machine
comprising at least one spinning machine inlet, wherein the at least one spinning machine inlet
is substantially directly coupled to the first extruder outlet; and (G) after the step of passing the
polymer melt through the first extruder, substantially immediately forming the polymer melt
into bulked continuous carpet filament using the at least one spinning machine.
[006]    The present invention further provides a method of manufacturing bulked continuous
carpet filament, the method comprising: (A) providing a PET crystallizer; (B) passing a
plurality of flakes consisting essentially of recycled PET through the PET crystallizer to at least
partially dry a surface of the plurality of flakes of recycled PET; (C) providing an expanded
surface area extruder, wherein the expanded surface area extruder defines an expanded surface
area extruder inlet and an expanded surface area extruder outlet and comprises: a plurality of
satellite screws, each of the plurality of satellite screws being at least partially housed within a
respective extruder barrel and mounted to rotate about its respective central axis; and a satellite
screw extruder support system that is adapted to orbitally rotate each of the plurality of satellite
screws about a main axis as each of the plurality of satellite screws rotate about its respective
                                                    2
10411318 I.doex

central axis, the main axis being substantially parallel to each respective central axis; (D)
providing a pressure regulation system configured to reduce a pressure within at least a portion
of the expanded surface area extruder below about 25 mbar; (E) providing a spinning machine
defining a spinning machine inlet, wherein the spinning machine inlet is operatively coupled to
the expanded surface area extruder outlet; (F) using the pressure regulation system to reduce
the pressure within the at least a portion of the expanded surface area extruder below about 25
mbar; (G) after passing the plurality of flakes consisting essentially of recycled PET through
the PET crystallizer, passing the plurality of flakes consisting essentially of PET flakes through
the expanded surface area extruder via the expanded surface area extruder inlet to at least
partially melt the plurality of flakes to form a polymer melt such that at least a portion of the
polymer melt passes through each the respective satellite screw; and (H) substantially
immediately after passing the plurality of flakes through the expanded surface area extruder,
using the spinning machine to form the polymer melt into bulked continuous carpet filament.
[0071    The present invention still further provides a method of manufacturing carpet filament
comprising the steps of: (A) grinding a plurality of recycled PET bottles into a group of polymer
flakes; (B) washing the group of polymer flakes to remove at least a portion of one or more
contaminants from a surface of the flakes, the group of flakes comprising a first plurality of
flakes that consist essentially of PET and a second plurality of flakes that do not consist
essentially of PET; (C) after the step of washing the first plurality of flakes: (i) scanning the
washed group of flakes to identify the second plurality of flakes, and (ii) separating the second
plurality of flakes from the first plurality of flakes; (D) providing a PET crystallizer; (E) passing
the first plurality of flakes through the PET crystallizer to at least partially dry a surface of the
first plurality of flakes; (F) providing an expanded surface area extruder having an extruder
inlet and an extruder outlet and comprising: at least six satellite screws, each of the at least six
of satellite screws being at least partially housed within a respective extruder barrel and
mounted to rotate about its respective central axis; and a satellite screw extruder support system
that is adapted to orbitally rotate each of the at least six of satellite screws about a main axis as
each of the at least six of satellite screws rotate about its respective central axis, the main axis
being substantially parallel to each respective central axis; (G) providing a pressure regulation
system configured to reduce a pressure within the expanded surface area extruder between about
0 mbar and about 25 mbar; (H) providing a spinning machine having a spinning machine inlet,
                                                    3
10411318 I.doex

wherein the spinning machine inlet is directly coupled to the extruder outlet; (I) using the
pressure regulation system to reduce the pressure within the expanded surface area extruder
between about 0 mbar and about 25 mbar; (J) while maintaining the pressure within the
expanded surface area extruder between about 0 mbar about 25 mbar, passing the first plurality
of flakes through the expanded surface area extruder via the first inlet; (K) melting the first
plurality of flakes using the expanded surface area extruder to produce a polymer melt so that
at least a portion of the polymer melt passes through each of the at least six satellite screws; and
(L) substantially immediately after passing the second plurality of flakes through the expanded
surface area extruder, spinning the polymer melt into bulked continuous carpet filament using
the spinning machine.
[0081            A method of manufacturing bulked continuous carpet filament, according to
various embodiments of the present disclosure, comprises: (A) providing a first extruder
comprising a first extruder inlet, a first extruder outlet and a pressure regulation system that is
adapted to maintain a pressure within the first extruder below about 18 millibars; (B) using the
pressure regulation system to reduce a pressure within the first extruder to below about 18
millibars; (C) while maintaining the pressure within the first extruder below about 18 millibars,
passing a plurality of flakes of recycled PET through the first extruder via the first extruder inlet
to at least partially melt the plurality of flakes into a polymer melt; (D) providing at least one
spinning machine comprising at least one spinning machine inlet, wherein the at least one
spinning machine inlet is substantially directly coupled to the first extruder outlet; (E) after the
step of passing the polymer melt through the first extruder, substantially immediately forming
the polymer melt into bulked continuous carpet filament using the at least one spinning
machine.
[009]            A method of manufacturing bulked continuous carpet filament, according to
various embodiments of the present disclosure, comprises: (A) providing an expanded surface
area extruder, wherein the expanded surface area extruder defines an expanded surface area
extruder inlet and an expanded surface area extruder outlet; (B) providing a pressure regulation
system configured to reduce a pressure within at least a portion of the expanded surface area
extruder below about 12 mbar; (C) providing a spinning machine defining a spinning machine
inlet, wherein the spinning machine inlet is operatively coupled to the expanded surface area
extruder outlet;         (D) using the pressure regulation system to reduce the pressure within
                                                   4
10411318 I.doex

    the at least a portion of the expanded surface area extruder below about 12 mbar; (E) passing a
    plurality of flakes consisting essentially of PET flakes through the expanded surface area
    extruder via the expanded surface area extruder inlet to at least partially melt the plurality of
    flakes to form a polymer melt; and (F) substantially immediately after passing the plurality of
    flakes through the expanded surface area extruder, using the spinning machine to form the
    polymer melt into bulked continuous carpet filament.
[0010]               A method of manufacturing carpet filament, in particular embodiments of the
    present disclosure, comprises the steps of: (A) grinding a plurality of recycled PET bottles into
    a group of polymer flakes; (B) washing the group of polymer flakes to remove at least a portion
    of one or more contaminants from a surface of the flakes, the group of flakes comprising a first
    plurality of flakes that consist essentially of PET and a second plurality of flakes that do not
    consist essentially of PET; (C) after the step of washing the first plurality of flakes: (i) scanning
    the washed group of flakes to identify the second plurality of flakes, and(ii) separating the
    second plurality of flakes from the first plurality of flakes; (D) providing an expanded surface
    area extruder having an extruder inlet and an extruder outlet; (E) providing a pressure regulation
    system configured to reduce a pressure within the expanded surface area extruder between about
    0 mbar and about 5 mbar; (F) providing a spinning machine having a spinning machine inlet,
    wherein the spinning machine inlet is directly coupled to the extruder outlet; (G) using the
    pressure regulation system to reduce the pressure within the expanded surface area extruder
    between about 0 mbar and about 5 mbar; (H) while maintaining the pressure within the
    expanded surface area extruder between about 0 mbar about 5 mbar, passing the second
    plurality of flakes through the expanded surface area extruder via the extruder inlet; (I) melting
    the second plurality of flakes using the expanded surface area extruder to produce a polymer
    melt; and (J) substantially immediately after passing the second plurality of flakes through the
    expanded surface area extruder, spinning the polymer melt into bulked continuous carpet
    filament using the spinning machine.
    BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
    [0011]           Having described various embodiments in general terms, reference will now be
    made to the accompanying drawings, which are not necessarily drawn to scale, and wherein:
    [00121           FIG. 1 depicts a process flow, according to a particular embodiment, for
    manufacturing bulked continuous carpet filament.
    10411318  .doex

[00131          FIG. 2 is a perspective view of an MRS extruder that is suitable for use in the
process of FIG. 1.
[0014]          FIG. 3 is a cross-sectional view of an exemplary MRS section of the MRS
extruder of FIG. 2.
[00151          FIG. 4 depicts a process flow depicting the flow of polymer through an MRS
extruder and filtration system according to a particular embodiment.
[0016]          FIG. 5 is a high-level flow chart of a method, according to various embodiments,
of manufacturing bulked continuous carpet filament.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF VARIOUS EMBODIMENTS
[0017]          Various embodiments will now be described in greater detail.         It should be
understood that the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be
construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein.         Rather, these embodiments are
provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete, and will fully convey the scope
of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.
I. Overview
[00181          New processes for making fiber from recycled polymer (e.g., recycled PET
polymer) are described below. In various embodiments, this new process: (1) is more effective
than earlier processes in removing contaminates and water from the recycled polymer; and/or
(2) does not require the polymer to be melted and cooled as many times as in earlier processes.
In at least one embodiment, the improved process results in a recycled PET polymer having a
polymer quality that is high enough that the PET polymer may be used in producing bulked
continuous carpet filament from 100% recycled PET content (e.g., 100% from PET obtained
from previously used PET bottles). In particular embodiments, the recycled PET polymer has
an intrinsic viscosity of at least about 0.79 dL/g (e.g., of between about 0.79 dL/g and about
 1.00 dL/g).
II. More Detailed Discussion
[00191          A BCF (bulked continuous filament) manufacturing process, according to a
particular embodiment, may generally be broken down into three steps: (1) preparing flakes of
PET polymer from post-consumer bottles for use in the process; (2) passing the flakes through
                                                  6
10411318 .doex

an extruder that melts the flakes and purifies the resulting PET polymer; and (3) feeding the
purified polymer into a spinning machine that turns the polymer into filament for use in
manufacturing carpets. These three steps are described in greater detail below.
STEP 1: Preparing Flakes of PET Polymer from Post-Consumer Bottles
[00201          In a particular embodiment, the step of preparing flakes of PET polymer from
post-consumer bottles comprises: (A) sorting post-consumer PET bottles and grinding the
bottles into flakes; (B) washing the flakes; and (C) identifying and removing any impurities or
impure flakes.
             A. Sorting Post-Consumer PET bottles and Grinding the Bottles into Flakes
[00211          In particular embodiments, bales of clear and mixed colored recycled post
consumer (e.g., "curbside") PET bottles (or other containers) obtained from various recycling
facilities make-up the post-consumer PET containers for use in the process.          In other
embodiments, the source of the post-consumer PET containers may be returned 'deposit' bottles
(e.g., PET bottles whose price includes a deposit that is returned to a customer when the
customer returns the bottle after consuming the bottle's contents). The curbside or returned
"post-consumer" or "recycled" containers may contain a small level of non-PET contaminates.
The contaminants in the containers may include, for example, non-PET polymeric contaminants
(e.g., PVC, PLA, PP, PE, PS, PA, etc.), metal (e.g., ferrous and non-ferrous metal), paper,
cardboard, sand, glass or other unwanted materials that may find their way into the collection
of recycled PET.       The non-PET contaminants may be removed from the desired PET
components, for example, through one or more of the various processes described below.
[00221          In particular embodiments, smaller components and debris (e.g., components
and debris greater than 2 inches in size) are removed from the whole bottles via a rotating
trammel. Various metal removal magnets and eddy current systems may be incorporated into
the process to remove any metal contaminants. Near Infra-Red optical sorting equipment such
as the NRT Multi Sort IR machine from Bulk Handling Systems Company of Eugene, Oregon,
or the Spyder IR machine from National Recovery Technologies of Nashville, Tennessee, may
be utilized to remove any loose polymeric contaminants that may be mixed in with the PET
flakes (e.g., PVC, PLA, PP, PE, PS, and PA). Additionally, automated X-ray sorting equipment
                                                7
10411318  .doex

such as a VINYLCYCLE machine from National Recovery Technologies of Nashville,
Tennessee may be utilized to remove remaining PVC contaminants.
[0023]            In particular embodiments, a binary segregation of the clear materials from the
colored materials is achieved using automated color sorting equipment equipped with a camera
detection system (e.g., an Multisort ES machine from National Recovery Technologies of
Nashville, Tennessee). In various embodiments, manual sorters are stationed at various points
on the line to remove contaminants not removed by the sorter and any colored bottles. In
particular embodiments, the sorted material is taken through a granulation step (e.g., using a
50B Granulator machine from Cumberland Engineering Corporation of New Berlin,
Wisconsin) to size reduce (e.g., grind) the bottles down to a size of less than one half of an inch.
In various embodiments, the bottle labels are removed from the resultant "dirty flake" (e.g., the
PET flakes formed during the granulation step) via an air separation system prior to entering
the wash process.
              B. Washing the Flakes
[00241            In particular embodiments, the "dirty flake" is then mixed into a series of wash
tanks. As part of the wash process, in various embodiments, an aqueous density separation is
utilized to separate the olefin bottle caps (which may, for example, be present in the "dirty
flake" as remnants from recycled PET bottles) from the higher specific gravity PET flakes. In
particular embodiments, the flakes are washed in a heated caustic bath to about 190 degrees
Fahrenheit.     In particular embodiments, the caustic bath is maintained at a concentration of
between about 0.6% and about 1.2% sodium hydroxide.                In various embodiments, soap
surfactants as well as defoaming agents are added to the caustic bath, for example, to further
increase the separation and cleaning of the flakes. A double rinse system then washes the
caustic from the flakes.
[00251            In various embodiments, the flake is centrifugally dewatered and then dried with
hot air to at least substantially remove any surface moisture. The resultant "clean flake" is then
processed through an electrostatic separation system (e.g., an electrostatic separator from
Carpco, Inc. of Jacksonville, Florida) and a flake metal detection system (e.g., an MSS Metal
Sorting System) to further remove any metal contaminants that remain in the flake. In particular
embodiments, an air separation step removes any remaining label from the clean flake. In
various embodiments, the flake is then taken through a flake color sorting step (e.g., using an
                                                  8
10411318  .doex

OPTIMIX machine from TSM Control Systems of Dundalk, Ireland) to remove any remaining
color contaminants remaining in the flake. In various embodiments, an electro-optical flake
sorter based at least in part on Raman technology (e.g., a Powersort 200 from Unisensor
Sensorsysteme GmbH of Karlsruhe, Germany) performs the final polymer separation to remove
any non-PET polymers remaining in the flake.          This step may also further remove any
remaining metal contaminants and color contaminants.
[0026]          In various embodiments, the combination of these steps delivers substantially
clean (e.g., clean) PET bottle flake comprising less than about 50 parts per million PVC (e.g.,
25 ppm PVC) and less than about 15 parts per million metals for use in the downstream
extrusion process described below.
             C. Identifying and Removing Impurities and Impure Flakes
[0027]          In particular embodiments, after the flakes are washed, they are fed down a
conveyor and scanned with a high-speed laser system 300. In various embodiments, particular
lasers that make up the high-speed laser system 300 are configured to detect the presence of
particular contaminates (e.g., PVC or Aluminum). Flakes that are identified as not consisting
essentially of PET may be blown from the main stream of flakes with air jets. In various
embodiments, the resulting level of non-PET flakes is less than 25 ppm.
[0028]          In various embodiments, the system is adapted to ensure that the PET polymer
being processed into filament is substantially free of water (e.g., entirely free of water). In a
particular embodiment, the flakes are placed into a pre-conditioner for between about 20 and
about 40 minutes (e.g., about 30 minutes) during which the pre-conditioner blows the surface
water off of the flakes. In particular embodiments, interstitial water remains within the flakes.
In various embodiments, these "wet" flakes (e.g., flakes comprising interstitial water) may then
be fed into an extruder (e.g., as described in Step 2 below), which includes a vacuum setup
designed to remove - among other things - the interstitial water that remains present in the flakes
following the quick-drying process described above.
STEP 2: Using an Extrusion System to Melt and Purify PET Flakes
[00291          In particular embodiments, an extruder is used to turn the wet flakes described
above into a molten recycled PET polymer and to perform a number of purification processes
to prepare the polymer to be turned into BCF for carpet.            As noted above, in various
                                               9
10411318 .doex

embodiments, after STEP 1 is complete, the recycled PET polymer flakes are wet (e.g., surface
water is substantially removed (e.g., fully removed) from the flakes, but interstitial water
remains in the flakes). In particular embodiments, these wet flakes are fed into a Multiple
Rotating Screw ("MRS") extruder 400. In other embodiments, the wet flakes are fed into any
other suitable extruder (e.g., a twin screw extruder, a multiple screw extruder, a planetary
extruder, or any other suitable extrusion system). An exemplary MRS Extruder 400 is shown
in Figures 2 and 3. A particular example of such an MRS extruder is described in U.S.
Published Patent Application 2005/0047267, entitled "Extruder for Producing Molten Plastic
Materials", which was published on March 3, 2005, and which is hereby incorporated herein
by reference.
[0030]           As may be understood from this figure, in particular embodiments, the MRS
extruder includes a first single-screw extruder section 410 for feeding material into an MRS
section 420 and a second single-screw extruder section 440 for transporting material away from
the MRS section.
[00311           In various embodiments, the wet flakes are fed directly into the MRS extruder
400 substantially immediately (e.g., immediately) following the washing step described above
(e.g., without drying the flakes or allowing the flakes to dry). In particular embodiments, a
system that feeds the wet flakes directly into the MRS Extruder 400 substantially immediately
(e.g., immediately) following the washing step described above may consume about 20% less
energy than a system that substantially fully pre-dries the flakes before extrusion (e.g., a system
that pre-dries the flakes by passing hot air over the wet flakes for a prolonged period of time).
In various embodiments, a system that feeds the wet flakes directly into the MRS Extruder 400
substantially immediately (e.g., immediately) following the washing step described above
avoids the need to wait a period of time (e.g., up to eight hours) generally required to fully dry
the flakes (e.g., remove all of the surface and interstitial water from the flakes).
[0032]           Figure 4 depicts a process flow that illustrates the various processes performed
by the MRS Extruder 400 in a particular embodiment. In the embodiment shown in this figure,
the wet flakes are first fed through the MRS extruder's first single-screw extruder section 410,
which may, for example, generate sufficient heat (e.g., via shearing) to at least substantially
melt (e.g., melt) the wet flakes.
                                                 10
10411318 .doex

[00331           The resultant polymer melt (e.g., comprising the melted flakes), in various
embodiments, is then fed into the extruder's MRS section 420, in which the extruder separates
the melt flow into a plurality of different streams (e.g., 4, 6, 8, or more streams) through a
plurality of open chambers. Figure 3 shows a detailed cutaway view of an MRS Section 420
according to a particular embodiment. In particular embodiments, such as the embodiment
shown in this figure, the MRS Section 420 separates the melt flow into eight different streams,
which are subsequently fed through eight satellite screws 425A-H. As may be understood from
Figure 2, in particular embodiments, these satellite screws are substantially parallel (e.g.,
parallel) to one other and to a primary screw axis of the MRS Machine 400.
[0034]           In the MRS section 420, in various embodiments, the satellite screws 425A-H
may, for example, rotate faster than (e.g., about four times faster than) in previous systems. As
shown in Figure 3, in particular embodiments: (1) the satellite screws 425A-H are arranged
within a single screw drum 428 that is mounted to rotate about its central axis; and (2) the
satellite screws 425A-H are configured to rotate in a direction that is opposite to the direction
in which the single screw drum rotates 428. In various other embodiments, the satellite screws
425A-H and the single screw drum 428 rotate in the same direction. In particular embodiments,
the rotation of the satellite screws 425A-H is driven by a ring gear.            Also, in various
embodiments, the single screw drum 428 rotates about four times faster than each individual
satellite screw 425A-H.        In certain embodiments, the satellite screws 425A-H rotate at
substantially similar (e.g., the same) speeds.
[00351           In various embodiments, as may be understood from Figure 4, the satellite
screws 425A-H are housed within respective extruder barrels, which may, for example be about
30% open to the outer chamber of the MRS section 420. In particular embodiments, the rotation
of the satellite screws 425A-H and single screw drum 428 increases the surface exchange of
the polymer melt (e.g., exposes more surface area of the melted polymer to the open chamber
than in previous systems). In various embodiments, the MRS section 420 creates a melt surface
area that is, for example, between about twenty and about thirty times greater than the melt
surface area created by a co-rotating twin screw extruder. In a particular embodiment, the MRS
section 420 creates a melt surface area that is, for example, about twenty five times greater than
the melt surface area created by a co-rotating twin screw extruder
                                                  11
10411318 1.doex

[00361          In various embodiments, the MRS extruder's MRS Section 420 is fitted with a
Vacuum Pump 430 that is attached to a vacuum attachment portion 422 of the MRS section 420
so that the Vacuum Pump 430 is in communication with the interior of the MRS section via a
suitable opening 424 in the MRS section's housing. In still other embodiments, the MRS
Section 420 is fitted with a series of Vacuum Pumps. In particular embodiments, the Vacuum
Pump 430 is configured to reduce the pressure within the interior of the MRS Section 420 to a
pressure that is between about 0.5 millibars and about 5 millibars. In particular embodiments,
the Vacuum Pump 430 is configured to reduce the pressure in the MRS Section 420 to less than
about 1.5 millibars (e.g., about 1 millibar or less). The low-pressure vacuum created by the
Vacuum Pump 430 in the MRS Section 420 may remove, for example: (1) volatile organics
present in the melted polymer as the melted polymer passes through the MRS Section 420;
and/or (2) at least a portion of any interstitial water that was present in the wet flakes when the
wet flakes entered the MRS Extruder 400. In various embodiments, the low-pressure vacuum
removes substantially all (e.g., all) of the water and contaminants from the polymer stream.
[00371          In a particular example, the Vacuum Pump 430 comprises three mechanical lobe
vacuum pumps (e.g., arranged in series) to reduce the pressure in the chamber to a suitable level
(e.g., to a pressure of about 1.0 millibar).       In other embodiments, rather than the three
mechanical lobe vacuum pump arrangement discussed above, the Vacuum Pump 430 includes
a jet vacuum pump fit to the MRS extruder. In various embodiments, the jet vacuum pump is
configured to achieve about I millibar of pressure in the interior of the MRS section 420 and
about the same results described above regarding a resulting intrinsic viscosity of the polymer
melt. In various embodiments, using a jet vacuum pump can be advantageous because jet
vacuum pumps are steam powered and therefore substantially self-cleaning (e.g., self-cleaning),
thereby reducing the maintenance required in comparison to mechanical lobe pumps (which
may, for example, require repeated cleaning due to volatiles coming off and condensing on the
lobes of the pump). In a particular embodiment, the Vacuum Pump 430 is a jet vacuum pump
is made by Arpuma GmbH of Bergheim, Germany.
[00381          In particular embodiments, after the molten polymer is run the through the multi
stream MRS Section 420, the streams of molten polymer are recombined and flow into the MRS
extruder's second single screw section 440. In various embodiments, the single stream of
molten polymer is next run through a filtration system 450 that includes at least one filter. In a
                                                  12
10411318 .doex

particular embodiment, the filtration system 450 includes two levels of filtration (e.g., a 40
micron screen filter followed by a 25 micron screen filter). Although, in various embodiments,
water and volatile organic impurities are removed during the vacuum process as discussed
above, particulate contaminates such as, for example, aluminum particles, sand, dirt, and other
contaminants may remain in the polymer melt. Thus, this filtration step may be advantageous
in removing particulate contaminates (e.g., particulate contaminates that were not removed in
the MRS Section 420).
[00391           In particular embodiments, a viscosity sensor 460 (see Figure 4) is used to sense
the melt viscosity of the molten polymer stream following its passage through the filtration
system 450. In various embodiments, the viscosity sensor 460, measures the melt viscosity of
the stream, for example, by measuring the stream's pressure drop across a known area. In
particular embodiments, in response to measuring an intrinsic viscosity of the stream that is
below a predetermined level (e.g., below about 0.8 g/dL), the system may: (1) discard the
portion of the stream with low intrinsic viscosity; and/or (2) lower the pressure in the MRS
Section 420 in order to achieve a higher intrinsic viscosity in the polymer melt. In particular
embodiments, decreasing the pressure in the MRS Section 420 is executed in a substantially
automated manner (e.g., automatically) using the viscosity sensor in a computer-controlled
feedback control loop with the vacuum section 430.
[0040]           In particular embodiments, removing the water and contaminates from the
polymer improves the intrinsic viscosity of the recycled PET polymer by allowing polymer
chains in the polymer to reconnect and extend the chain length. In particular embodiments,
following its passage through the MRS Section 420 with its attached Vacuum Pump 430, the
recycled polymer melt has an intrinsic viscosity of at least about 0.79 dL/g (e.g., of between
about 0.79 dL/g and about 1.00 dL/g). In particular embodiments, passage through the low
pressure MRS Section 420 purifies the recycled polymer melt (e.g., by removing the
contaminants and interstitial water) and makes the recycled polymer substantially structurally
similar to (e.g., structurally the same as) pure virgin PET polymer. In particular embodiments,
the water removed by the vacuum includes both water from the wash water used to clean the
recycled PET bottles as described above, as well as from unreacted water generated by the
melting of the PET polymer in the single screw heater 410 (e.g., interstitial water). In particular
                                                  13
10411318 .doex

embodiments, the majority of water present in the polymer is wash water, but some percentage
may be unreacted water.
[0041]          In particular embodiments, the resulting polymer is a recycled PET polymer
(e.g., obtained 100% from post-consumer PET products, such as PET bottles or containers)
having a polymer quality that is suitable for use in producing PET carpet filament using
substantially only (e.g., only) PET from recycled PET products.
Step 3: Purified PET Polymer Fed into Spinning Machine to be Turned into Carpet Yarn
[0042]          In particular embodiments, after the recycled PET polymer has been extruded
and purified by the above-described extrusion process, the resulting molten recycled PET
polymer is fed directly into a BCF (or "spinning") machine 500 that is configured to turn the
molten polymer into bulked continuous filament. For example, in various embodiments, the
output of the MRS extruder 400 is connected substantially directly (e.g., directly) to the input
of the spinning machine 500 so that molten polymer from the extruder is fed directly into the
spinning machine 500. This process may be advantageous because molten polymer may, in
certain embodiments, not need to be cooled into pellets after extrusion (as it would need to be
if the recycled polymer were being mixed with virgin PET polymer).                  In particular
embodiments, not cooling the recycled molten polymer into pellets serves to avoid potential
chain scission in the polymer that might lower the polymer's intrinsic viscosity.
[00431          In particular embodiments, the spinning machine 500 extrudes molten polymer
through small holes in a spinneret in order to produce carpet yarn filament from the polymer.
In particular embodiments, the molten recycled PET polymer cools after leaving the spinneret.
The carpet yarn is then taken up by rollers and ultimately turned into filaments that are used to
produce carpet. In various embodiments, the carpet yarn produced by the spinning machine
500 may have a tenacity between about 3 gram-force per unit denier (gf/den) and about 9 gf/den.
In particular embodiments, the resulting carpet yarn has a tenacity of at least about 3 gf/den.
[0044]          In particular embodiments, the spinning machine 500 used in the process
described above is the Sytec One spinning machine manufactured by Oerlika Neumag of
Neumuenster, Germany. The Sytec One machine may be especially adapted for hard-to-run
fibers, such as nylon or solution-dyed fibers, where the filaments are prone to breakage during
processing. In various embodiments, the Sytec One machine keeps the runs downstream of the
                                                14
10411318 .doex

spinneret as straight as possible, uses only one threadline, and is designed to be quick to rethread
when there are filament breaks.
[0045]          Although the example described above describes using the Sytec One spinning
machine to produce carpet yarn filament from the polymer, it should be understood that any
other suitable spinning machine may be used.          Such spinning machines may include, for
example, any suitable one-threadline or three-threadline spinning machine made by Oerlika
Neumag of Neumuenster, Germany or any other company.
[00461          In various embodiments, the improved strength of the recycled PET polymer
generated using the process above allows it to be run at higher speeds through the spinning
machine 500 than would be possible using pure virgin PET polymer. This may allow for higher
processing speeds than are possible when using virgin PET polymer.
Summary of Exemplary Process
[00471          Figure 5 provides a high-level summary of the method of manufacturing bulked
continuous filament described above. As shown in the figure, the method begins at Step 602,
where recycled PET bottles are ground into a group of flakes. Next, at Step 604, the group of
flakes is washed to remove contaminants from the flakes' respective outer surfaces. Next, at
Step 606, the group of flakes is scanned (e.g., using one or more of the methods discussed
above) to identify impurities, including impure flakes. These impurities, and impure flakes, are
then removed from the group of flakes.
[00481          Next, at Step 608, the group of flakes is passed through an MRS extruder while
maintaining the pressure within an MRS portion of the extruder below about 1.5 millibars. At
Step 610, the resulting polymer melt is passed through at least one filter having a micron rating
of less than about 50 microns. Finally, at Step 612, the recycled polymer is formed into bulked
continuous carpet filament, which may be used in producing carpet. The method then ends at
Step 614.
Alternative Embodiments
[0049]          In particular embodiments, the system may comprise alternative components or
perform alternative processes in order to produce substantially continuous BCF from 100%
recycled PET, or other recycled polymer. Exemplary alternatives are discussed below.
                                                  15
10411318  .doex

         Non-MRS Extrusion System
[00501          In particular embodiments, the process may utilize a polymer flow extrusion
system other than the MRS Extruder described above. The alternative extrusion system may
include for example, a twin screw extruder, a multiple screw extruder, a planetary extruder, or
any other suitable extrusion system. In a particular embodiment, the process may include a
plurality of any combination of any suitable conical screw extruders (e.g., four twin screw
extruders, three multiple screw extruders, etc.).
         Making Carpet Yarn from 100% Recycled Carpet
[0051]          In particular embodiments, the process described above may be adapted for
processing and preparing old carpet (or any other suitable post-consumer product) to produce
new carpet yarn comprising 100% recycled carpet. In such embodiments, the process would
begin by grinding and washing recycled carpet rather than recycled PET bottles. In various
embodiments where old carpet is converted into new carpet yam comprising 100% recycled
carpet, the process may comprise additional steps to remove additional materials or impurities
that may be present in recycled carpet that may not be present in recycled PET bottles (e.g.,
carpet backing, adhesive, etc.).
         Other Sources of Recycled PET
[0052]          In various embodiments, the process described above is adapted for processing
recycled PET from any suitable source (e.g., sources other than recycled bottles or carpet) to
produce new carpet yarn comprising 100% recycled PET.
The Use of a Crystallizer as Part of BCF Process
[00531          In various embodiments, the process for producing recycled BCF may further
include a crystallizing step that utilizes one or more PET crystallizers.            In particular
embodiments, the system is configured to perform the crystallization step on the ground flakes
prior to running the flakes through the one or more extruders (e.g., single screw extruder, MRS
extruder, etc.). In particular embodiments, the PET crystallizer comprises a housing, a hopper
screw (e.g., an auger) disposed at least partially within the housing, a stirring apparatus, one or
more heating elements, and one or more blowers.
                                                 16
10411318  .doex

Hopper Screw
[00541           In particular embodiments, the hopper screw comprises any suitable screw
conveyor (e.g., such as an Archimedes' screw) for moving liquid or granular materials (e.g.,
such as PET flakes).      In various embodiments, the hopper screw comprises a substantially
cylindrical shaft and a helical screw blade disposed along at least a portion of the cylindrical
shaft. In particular embodiments, the substantially cylindrical shaft is configured to rotate the
screw blade, causing that hopper screw to move material (e.g., the PET flakes) along the
cylindrical shaft and into the crystallizer housing. In other embodiments, the hopper screw
comprises any other suitable screw conveyer such as, for example, a shaftless spiral.          In
embodiments in which the hopper screw comprises a shaftless spiral, the shaftless spiral may
be substantially fixed at one end and free at the other end and configured to be driven at the
fixed end. In various embodiments, the hopper screw is disposed at least partially within the
crystallizer housing.
[00551           In various embodiments, the hopper screw is configured to feed PET flakes into
the crystallizer. In various embodiments, the PET crystallizer is configured to feed the PET
flakes into the crystallizer using the hopper screw relatively slowly.
One or More Heating Elements
[0056]           In various embodiments, the crystallizer comprises one or more heating
elements for raising a temperature within the crystallizer. In particular embodiments, the one
or more heating elements comprise one or more electric heating elements, one or more gas
fired heating elements, or any other suitable heating elements. In some embodiments, the one
or more heating elements may be substantially electrically powered. In various embodiments,
the one or more heating elements comprise one or more infra-red heating elements. In other
embodiments, the one or more heating elements may utilize natural gas such, for example,
propane. In particular embodiments, the one or more heating elements are configured to raise
a temperature within the crystallizer to between about 100 degrees Fahrenheit and about 180
degrees Fahrenheit.      In still other embodiments, the one or more heating elements are
configured to raise a temperature within the crystallizer to between about 100 degrees Celsius
and 180 degrees Celsius.       In some embodiments, the one or more heating elements are
configured to maintain a temperature within the crystallizer that is substantially about a
maximum crystallization temperature of PET.          In particular embodiments, the maximum
                                                 17
10411318  .doex

crystallization temperature of PET is between about 140 degrees Celsius and about 230 degrees
Celsius.
One or More Blowers
[00571          In various embodiments, the crystallizer further comprises one or more blowers
configured to blow air over the flakes as the flakes passes through the crystallizer. In particular
embodiments, the one or more blowers comprise any suitable blowers for moving air
substantially across a surface area of the flakes as the flakes pass through the crystallizer. For
example, in some embodiments, the one or more blowers comprise one or more suitable fans
or other suitable mechanisms for moving air. In various embodiments, the one or more blowers
are configured to blow air that has been at least partially heated by the one or more heating
elements. In particular embodiments, the one or more blowers are configured to blow air having
a temperature of at least about 140 degree Fahrenheit. In another particular embodiments, the
one or more blowers are configured to blow air having a temperature of at least about 140
degree Celsius. In other embodiments, the one or more blowers are configured to maintain the
temperature in the crystallizer between about 140 degrees Fahrenheit and about 180 degrees
Fahrenheit. In some embodiments, the one or more blowers are configured to blow hot air from
a bottom portion of the crystallizer and draw air from an upper portion of the crystallizer.
StirringApparatus
[00581          In various embodiments, the crystallizer comprises a stirring apparatus that
comprises any suitable apparatus for stirring the PET flakes while the PET flakes are passing
through the crystallizer. In various embodiments, the stirring apparatus may be operated, for
example, by any suitable gear motor.        In a particular embodiment, the stirring apparatus
comprises a suitable rod or other suitable mechanism mounted to rotate, or otherwise stir the
PET flakes as the PET flakes are passing through the crystallizer. In other embodiments, the
stirring apparatus may comprise any suitable tumbler, which may, for example, comprise a
drum mounted to rotate via the gear mother such that the PET flakes are at least partially stirred
and/or agitated while the PET flakes are within the drum. In still other embodiments, the
stirring apparatus comprises one or more screws and/or augers configured to rotate and stir the
PET flakes. In particular embodiments, the stirring apparatus comprises the hopper screw.
                                                 18
10411318_1.docx

[00591           As may be understood from this disclosure, the stirring apparatus is configured
to agitate or stir the PET flakes as the one or more blowers blow air heated by the one or more
heating elements across the PET flakes. In particular embodiments, the stirring apparatus is
configured to at least partially reduce agglomeration (e.g., sticking or clumping of the flake)
while the flake is at least partially crystallizing in the crystallizer.
[0060]           In particular embodiments, the crystallizer at least partially dries the surface of
the PET flakes. In various embodiments, the PET crystallizer is configured to reduce a moisture
content of the PET flakes to about 50 ppm. In other embodiments the PET crystallizer is
configured to reduce a moisture content of the PET flakes to between about 30 and about 50
ppm.
[0061]           In various embodiments, the use of drier flakes may enable the system to run the
flakes through the MRS extruder more slowly, which may allow for higher pressure within the
MRS extruder during extrusion (e.g., may enable the system to maintain a higher pressure
within the MRS extruder, rather than very low pressure).             In various embodiments of the
process, the pressure regulation system may be configured to maintain a pressure within the
MRS extruder of between about 0 millibars and about 25 millibars. In particular embodiments,
such as embodiments in which the PET flakes have been run through a crystallizer before being
extruded in the MRS extruder, the pressure regulation system may be configured to maintain a
pressure within the MRS extruder of between about 0 and about 18 millibars.                 In other
embodiments, the pressure regulation system may be configured to maintain a pressure within
the MRS extruder between about 0 and about 12 millibars. In still other embodiments, the
pressure regulation system may be configured to maintain a pressure within the MRS extruder
between about 0 and about 8 millibars. In still other embodiments, the pressure regulation
system may be configured to maintain a pressure within the MRS extruder between about 5
millibars and about 10 millibars. In particular embodiments, the pressure regulation system may
be configured to maintain a pressure within the MRS extruder at about 5 millibars, about 6
millibars, about 7 millibars, about 8 millibars, about 9 millibars, or about any suitable pressure
between about 0 millibars and about 25 millibars.
[00621           In particular embodiments, the crystallizer causes the flakes to at least partially
reduce in size, which may, for example, reduce a potential for the flakes to stick together. In
particular embodiments, the crystallizer may particularly reduce stickiness of larger flakes,
                                                   19
10411318  .doex

which may, for example, include flakes comprising portions of the ground PET bottles which
may be thicker than other portions of the PET bottles (e.g., flakes ground from a threaded
portion of the PET bottle on which a cap would typically be screwed).
Use of Curbside Recycling v. Deposit Bottles in Process
[0063]          In various embodiments, the system is configured to utilize recycled PET of
varying quality in the process described above. For example, in various embodiments, the
system is configured to produce bulked continuous carpet filament from PET derived from PET
bottles sourced from curbside recycling sources (e.g., PET bottles that were collected as part of
a general bulk recycling program or other recycling source) as well as deposit PET bottles (e.g.,
bottles returned as part of a deposit program). In various embodiments, Curbside recycled
bottles may require more thorough processing in order to produce bulked continuous filament,
as curbside recycled PET bottles may be mixed in with and otherwise include contaminants
such as, for example: other recyclable goods (e.g., paper, other plastics, etc.), garbage, and other
non-PET bottle items due to imperfect sorting of recycled goods or for any other reason.
Deposit PET bottles may include PET bottles with fewer unwanted contaminants due in part
because deposit PET bottles may be collected separately from other recyclable or disposable
goods.
[0064]          In various embodiments, curbside recycled PET bottles acquired during
particular times of year may include more impurities and other contaminants than at other times
of the year. For example, curbside recycled PET bottles collected during summer months may
comprise a higher percentage of clear PET bottles (e.g., water bottles) at least in part due to
additional water consumption during summer months.
[00651          In various embodiments, the system described above may be configured to
adjust particular components of the process based at least in part on the source of recycled PET
being used to produce the bulked continuous carpet filament. For example, because deposit
PET bottles include fewer impurities that need to be removed during the initial cleaning and
sorting phases of the process, the pressure regulation system may be configured to maintain a
pressure within the MRS extruder that is higher than a pressure that it would be configured to
maintain for PET flake derived from curbside recycled PET bottles.                  In a particular
embodiment, the pressure regulation system may be configured to maintain a pressure within
the MRS extruder of between about 0 millibars and about 12 millibars when flakes derived from
                                               20
10411318 .doex

deposit PET bottles are passing through the MRS extruder. In still other embodiments, the
pressure regulation system may be configured to maintain a pressure within the MRS extruder
of between about 5 millibars and about 10 millibars in such instances.
[00661           In various embodiments, the system is configured to determine a suitable
pressure at which to maintain the pressure within the MRS extruder based at least in part on the
source of the recycled PET. In other embodiments, the system is configured to omit one or
more of the steps above or include one or more additional steps to the steps described above
based at least in part on the source of the recycled PET.
Direct Coupling of Various Process Components
         Direct Couplinz of MRS Extruder to Spinning Machine
[0067]           In particular embodiments, the output of the MRS machine may be substantially
directly coupled (e.g., directly coupled) to a spinning machine for forming the resulting molten
polymer into bulked continuous filament.         In such embodiments, after the recycled PET
polymer has been extruded and purified by the above-described extrusion process, the resulting
molten recycled PET polymer is fed substantially directly (e.g., directly) into the spinning
machine.       This process may be advantageous because molten polymer may, in certain
embodiments, not need to be cooled into pellets after extrusion (as it would need to be if the
recycled polymer were being mixed with virgin PET polymer) prior to spinning the molten
polymer into filament. In particular embodiments, not cooling the recycled molten polymer
into pellets serves to avoid potential chain scission in the polymer that might lower the
polymer's intrinsic viscosity.
Direct Couplinz of Non-MRS Extruder to Spinning Machine
[00681           In various embodiments of the process for recycling PET (e.g., or other
polymers) into BCF, the recycled PET flakes are passed through an extruder other than an MRS
extruder (e.g., a "first extruder") prior to spinning the resultant molten polymer into BCF. In
particular embodiments, the first extruder is substantially directly coupled (e.g., directly
coupled) to the spinning machine (e.g., an outlet of the first extruder is substantially directly
coupled to an inlet of the spinning machine). For example, in various embodiments, an outlet
of the first extruder is substantially directly coupled (e.g., via a suitable pipe, connector, etc.)
                                                 21
10411318  .doex

to one or more inlets of one or more spinning machines. In particular embodiments, the first
extruder may include any suitable expanded surface area extruder. In various embodiments,
the first extruder may include, for example, a twin screw extruder, a multiple screw extruder, a
planetary extruder, or any other suitable extrusion system (e.g., any other suitable expanded
surface area extruder). In various embodiments, the first extruder is any suitable extruder for
increasing an amount of surface area of a polymer melt being extruded by the first extruder that
is exposed to a low pressure within the first extruder (e.g., a low pressure caused by a pressure
regulation system, such as any suitable pressure regulation system described above).          In a
particular embodiment, the first extruder is an MAS extruder manufactured by Maschinen und
Anlagenbau Schulz GmbH of Pucking, Austria.
[0069]           In various embodiments, the first extruder is a conical co-rotating twin screw
extruder. In such embodiments, the first extruder comprises an extruder housing in which two,
co-rotating conical screws are disposed (e.g., a first conical screw and a second conical screw).
In various embodiments, each conical screw is substantially conical (e.g., conical) such that the
screw narrows from a first diameter at a base end of each respective conical screw to a second
diameter at a vertex end of each respective conical screw that is less than the first diameter. In
various embodiments, each particular conical screw may have any suitable thread or threading.
In some embodiments, each conical screw has a substantially uniform (e.g., uniform) thread
pitch and thread crest along at least a portion of the conical screw. In other embodiments, thread
pitch and crest may at least partially vary along a length of the particular conical screw. In still
other embodiments, a difference between a major and minor diameter of the conical screw may
vary along a length of the conical screw (e.g., the screw thread may be larger or smaller along
particular portions of the conical screw). In a particular embodiment, the pitch of thread of a
particular conical screw may decrease along the conical screw from the base portion to the
vertex portion. In particular embodiments, the first and second conical screws are substantially
structurally identical (e.g., structurally identical).
[0070]           In particular embodiments, the two conical screws are oriented within the
conical twin screw extruder such that the base portion of each screw is disposed adjacent an
intake (e.g., inlet) of the conical twin screw extruder, and the vertex portion of each screw is
disposed adjacent an outlet of the conical twin extruder. In particular embodiments, a central
axis of the first conical screw forms an acute angle with the central axis of the second conical
                                                  22
10411318  .doex

screw. In various embodiments, the first and second conical screws are disposed such that at
least a portion of the thread of the first conical screw at least partially mates with (e.g., mates
with) at least a portion of the thread of the second conical screw. In other embodiments, at least
a portion of the thread of the first conical screw at least partially engages with (e.g., engages
with) at least a portion of the thread of the second conical screw
[0071]           In particular embodiments, the conical twin screw extruder may be configured
to at least partially melt the plurality of flakes into a polymer melt. In such embodiments, the
conical twin screw extruder may, for example, generate sufficient heat (e.g., via shearing) to at
least substantially melt (e.g., melt) the flakes. In particular embodiments, the first extruder is
configured to increase a surface area of the polymer melt. In various embodiments, the conical
design of the conical twin screw extruder may result in an intake volume that is substantially
greater (e.g., greater) than a discharge volume of the conical twin screw extruder. This higher
intake volume, in various embodiments, may result in a high volume throughput per revolution
of the twin conical screws. In various embodiments, the first extruder is configured to receive
a plurality of polymer flakes (e.g., PET flakes) via a first extruder inlet, melt the plurality of
flakes into a polymer melt while extruding the plurality of flakes, and pass the resulting polymer
melt though an extruder outlet.
[0072]           In various embodiments, the first extruder comprises a pressure regulation
system configured to reduce a pressure within the first extruder. In a particular embodiment,
the first extruder is fitted with a suitable vacuum pump such that the vacuum pump is in
communication with an interior of the first extruder's housing via a suitable opening in the first
extruder's housing. In still other embodiments, the first extruder is fitted with a series of
vacuum pumps. In particular embodiments, the vacuum pump is configured to reduce the
pressure within the interior of the first extruder to a pressure that is between about Omillibars
and about 25 millibars. In other embodiments, the vacuum pump is configured to reduce a
pressure within the first extruder to between about 5 millibars and about 18 millibars. In still
other embodiments, the vacuum pump is configured to reduce a pressure within the first
extruder to any particular suitable pressure between about 0 millibars and about 25 millibars.
In various embodiments, the low-pressure vacuum created by the vacuum pump in the first
extruder may remove, for example: (1) volatile organics present in the melted polymer as the
melted polymer passes through the first extruder; and/or (2) at least a portion of any interstitial
                                                  23
10411318  .doex

water that was present in the wet flakes when the wet flakes entered the first extruder. In various
embodiments, the low-pressure vacuum removes substantially all (e.g., all) of the water and
contaminants from the polymer stream. In various embodiments, the vacuum pump may
include any suitable vacuum pump, such as any vacuum pump described above or any other
suitable vacuum pump.
[0073]          In embodiments in which the system includes a first extruder directly coupled to
the spinning machine, the process may include passing the plurality of flakes (e.g., a plurality
of wet flakes after a washing step) through the first extruder to at least partially melt the plurality
of flakes into a polymer melt and remove at least a portion of the impurities from the polymer
melt. The polymer melt is then fed substantially directly (e.g., directly) into the spinning
machine for spinning into bulked continuous carpet filament.
Conclusion
[00741          Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind
to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings
presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. For example, although the
vacuum system discussed above is described as being configured to maintain the pressure in
the open chambers of the MRS extruder to about 1 mbar, in other embodiments, the vacuum
system may be adapted to maintain the pressure in the open chambers of the MRS extruder at
pressures greater than, or less than, 1 mbar. For example, the vacuum system may be adapted
to maintain this pressure at between about 0.5 mbar and about 12 mbar.
[00751          Similarly, although various embodiments of the systems described above may
be adapted to produce carpet filament from substantially only recycled PET (so the resulting
carpet filament would comprise, consist of, and/or consist essentially of recycled PET), in other
embodiments, the system may be adapted to produce carpet filament from a combination of
recycled PET and virgin PET. The resulting carpet filament may, for example, comprise,
consist of, and/or consist essentially of between about 80% and about 100% recycled PET, and
between about 0% and about 20% virgin PET.
[00761          Also, while various embodiments are discussed above in regard to producing
carpet filament from PET, similar techniques may be used to produce carpet filament from other
polymers. Similarly, while various embodiments are discussed above in regard to producing
                                                24
10411318  .doex

carpet filament from PET, similar techniques may be used to produce other products from PET
or other polymers.
[0077]           In addition, it should be understood that various embodiments may omit any of
the steps described above or add additional steps.
[00781           In light of the above, it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited
to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are
intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are
employed herein, they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for the purposes
of limitation.
[0079]           The term 'comprising' as used in this specification and claims means 'consisting
at least in part of. When interpreting statements in this specification and claims which include
the term 'comprising', other features besides the features prefaced by this term in each statement
can also be present. Related terms such as 'comprise' and 'comprised' are to be interpreted in
similar manner.
[00801           In this specification where reference has been made to patent specifications,
other external documents, or other sources of information, this is generally for the purpose of
providing a context for discussing the features of the invention. Unless specifically stated
otherwise, reference to such external documents is not to be construed as an admission that such
documents, or such sources of information, in any jurisdiction, are prior art, or form part of the
common general knowledge in the art.
                                                    25
10411318  .doex

                                                  Claims
We claim:
1.       A method of manufacturing bulked continuous carpet filament, the method comprising:
         (A) providing a PET crystallizer;
         (B) passing a plurality of flakes of recycled PET through the PET crystallizer to at least
partially diy a surface of the plurality of flakes of recycled PET;
         (C) providing a first extruder, the first extruder comprising:
                  a first extruder inlet and a first extruder outlet;
                  a first satellite screw extruder, the first satellite screw extruder comprising a first
         satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a central axis of the first satellite screw;
                  a second satellite screw extruder, the second satellite screw extruder comprising
         a second satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a central axis of the second
         satellite screw;
                  a third satellite screw extruder, the third satellite screw extruder comprising a
         third satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a central axis of the third satellite
         screw;
                  a fourth satellite screw extruder, the fourth satellite screw extruder comprising a
         fourth satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a central axis of the fourth satellite
         screw, wherein the first satellite screw, the second satellite screw, the third satellite
         screw, and the fourth satellite screw are disposed at least partially within respective
         extruder barrels;
                  a satellite screw extruder support system that is adapted to rotate the first,
         second, third, and fourth satellite screws about a main axis while the first, second, third
         and fourth satellite screws are rotating about their respective central axes, the main axis
         being substantially parallel to: (a) the central axis of the first satellite screw; (b) the
         central axis of the second satellite screw; (c) the central axis of the third satellite screw;
         and (d) the central axis of the fourth satellite screw; and
                  a pressure regulation system that is adapted to maintain a pressure within the
         first extruder below about 25 millibars;
                                                     26
10411318 I.doex

         (D) using the pressure regulation system to reduce a pressure within the first extruder to
below about 25 millibars;
         (E) after passing the plurality of flakes of recycled PET through the PET crystallizer,
while maintaining the pressure within the first extruder below about 18 millibars, passing the
plurality of flakes of recycled PET through the first extruder via the first extruder inlet to at
least partially melt the plurality of flakes into a polymer melt such that: (1) a first portion of the
melt passes through the first satellite screw extruder, (2) a second portion of the melt passes
through the second satellite screw extruder, (3) a third portion of the melt passes through the
third satellite screw extruder, and (4) a fourth portion of the melt passes through the fourth
satellite screw extruder;
         (F) providing at least one spinning machine comprising at least one spinning machine
inlet, wherein the at least one spinning machine inlet is substantially directly coupled to the first
extruder outlet; and
         (G) after the step of passing the polymer melt through the first extruder, substantially
immediately forming the polymer melt into bulked continuous carpet filament using the at least
one spinning machine.
2.       The method of Claim 1, wherein:
         the pressure regulation system is adapted to maintain the pressure within the first
extruder below about 18 millibars; and
         the method further comprises using the pressure regulation system to reduce a pressure
within the first extruder to below about 18 millibars.
3.       The method of Claim 1, wherein:
         the pressure regulation system is adapted to maintain the pressure within the first
extruder below about 12 millibars; and
         the method further comprises using the pressure regulation system to reduce a pressure
within the first extruder to below about 12 millibars.
4.       The method of Claim 1, wherein:
         the first extruder further comprises:
                                                   27
10411318 I.doex

                  a fifth satellite screw extruder, the fifth satellite screw extruder comprising a
         fifth satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a central axis of the second fifth
         screw; and
                  a sixth satellite screw extruder, the sixth satellite screw extruder comprising a
         sixth satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a central axis of the sixth screw,
         wherein the fifth satellite screw extruder and the sixth satellite screw extruder are
         disposed at least partially within respective extruder barrels; and
         the satellite screw extruder support system is adapted to rotate the first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, and sixth satellite screws about a main axis while the first, second, third, fourth,
fifth, and sixth satellite screws are rotating about their respective central axes.
5.       The method of Claim 4, wherein:
         the first extruder further comprises:
                  a seventh satellite screw extruder, the seventh satellite screw extruder
         comprising a seventh satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a central axis of the
         second seventh screw; and
                  an eighth satellite screw extruder, the eighth satellite screw extruder comprising
         an eighth satellite screw that is mounted to rotate about a central axis of the eighth screw,
         wherein the seventh satellite screw extruder and the eighth satellite screw extruder are
         disposed at least partially within respective extruder barrels; and
         the satellite screw extruder support system is adapted to rotate the first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth satellite screws about a main axis while the first, second,
third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth satellite screws are rotating about their respective
central axes.
6.       The method of Claim 5, wherein the method comprises manufacturing bulked
continuous carpet filament from 100% recycled PET substantially immediately after extruding
the recycled PET.
7.       The method of Claim 1, wherein substantially immediately forming the polymer melt
into bulked continuous carpet filament comprises substantially immediately forming the
                                                   28
10411318 I.doex

polymer melt into bulked continuous carpet filament without substantially cooling the polymer
melt.
8.       The method of claim 1, wherein the PET crystallizer comprises:
         a hopper screw configured to feed the plurality of flakes of recycled PET into the PET
crystallizer; and
         a blower configured to blow hot air over the plurality of flakes of recycled PET as the
plurality of flakes of recycled PET pass through the crystallizer.
9.       The method of Claim 8, wherein the crystallizer is configured to maintain a temperature
of between about 140 degrees Celsius and about 230 Celsius within the crystallizer.
 10.     The method of Claim 9, wherein the PET crystallizer causes the plurality of flakes of
recycled PET to at least partially reduce in size.
 11.     A method of manufacturing bulked continuous carpet filament, the method comprising:
         (A) providing a PET crystallizer;
         (B) passing a plurality of flakes consisting essentially of recycled PET through the PET
crystallizer to at least partially dry a surface of the plurality of flakes of recycled PET;
         (C) providing an expanded surface area extruder, wherein the expanded surface area
extruder defines an expanded surface area extruder inlet and an expanded surface area extruder
outlet and comprises:
                 a plurality of satellite screws, each of the plurality of satellite screws being at
         least partially housed within a respective extruder barrel and mounted to rotate about its
         respective central axis; and
                 a satellite screw extruder support system that is adapted to orbitally rotate each
         of the plurality of satellite screws about a main axis as each of the plurality of satellite
         screws rotate about its respective central axis, the main axis being substantially parallel
         to each respective central axis;
         (D) providing a pressure regulation system configured to reduce a pressure within at
least a portion of the expanded surface area extruder below about 25 mbar;
                                                  29
10411318 I.doex

         (E) providing a spinning machine defining a spinning machine inlet, wherein the
spinning machine inlet is operatively coupled to the expanded surface area extruder outlet;
         (F) using the pressure regulation system to reduce the pressure within the at least a
portion of the expanded surface area extruder below about 25 mbar;
         (G) after passing the plurality of flakes consisting essentially of recycled PET through
the PET crystallizer, passing the plurality of flakes consisting essentially of PET flakes through
the expanded surface area extruder via the expanded surface area extruder inlet to at least
partially melt the plurality of flakes to form a polymer melt such that at least a portion of the
polymer melt passes through each the respective satellite screw; and
         (H) substantially immediately after passing the plurality of flakes through the expanded
surface area extruder, using the spinning machine to form the polymer melt into bulked
continuous carpet filament.
 12.     The method of Claim 11, wherein using the spinning machine to form the polymer melt
into bulked continuous carpet filament substantially immediately after passing the plurality of
flakes through the expanded surface area extruder comprises using the spinning machine to
form the polymer melt into bulked continuous carpet filament without substantially cooling the
polymer melt.
 13.     A method of manufacturing carpet filament comprising the steps of:
         (A) grinding a plurality of recycled PET bottles into a group of polymer flakes;
         (B) washing the group of polymer flakes to remove at least a portion of one or more
contaminants from a surface of the flakes, the group of flakes comprising a first plurality of
flakes that consist essentially of PET and a second plurality of flakes that do not consist
essentially of PET;
         (C) after the step of washing the first plurality of flakes:
                 (i) scanning the washed group of flakes to identify the second plurality of flakes,
         and
                 (ii) separating the second plurality of flakes from the first plurality of flakes;
         (D) providing a PET crystallizer;
                                                  30
10411318 I.doex

         (E) passing the first plurality of flakes through the PET crystallizer to at least partially
dry a surface of the first plurality of flakes;
         (F) providing an expanded surface area extruder having an extruder inlet and an extruder
outlet and comprising:
                  at least six satellite screws, each of the at least six of satellite screws being at
         least partially housed within a respective extruder barrel and mounted to rotate about its
         respective central axis; and
                  a satellite screw extruder support system that is adapted to orbitally rotate each
         of the at least six of satellite screws about a main axis as each of the at least six of
         satellite screws rotate about its respective central axis, the main axis being substantially
         parallel to each respective central axis;
         (G) providing a pressure regulation system configured to reduce a pressure within the
expanded surface area extruder between about 0 mbar and about 25 mbar;
         (H) providing a spinning machine having a spinning machine inlet, wherein the spinning
machine inlet is directly coupled to the extruder outlet;
         (I) using the pressure regulation system to reduce the pressure within the expanded
surface area extruder between about 0 mbar and about 25 mbar;
         (J) while maintaining the pressure within the expanded surface area extruder between
about 0 mbar about 25 mbar, passing the first plurality of flakes through the expanded surface
area extruder via the first inlet;
         (K) melting the first plurality of flakes using the expanded surface area extruder to
produce a polymer melt so that at least a portion of the polymer melt passes through each of the
at least six satellite screws; and
         (L) substantially immediately after passing the second plurality of flakes through the
expanded surface area extruder, spinning the polymer melt into bulked continuous carpet
filament using the spinning machine.
14.      The method of Claim 13, wherein passing the plurality of flakes consisting essentially
of PET flakes through the expanded surface area extruder comprises passing the plurality of
flakes consisting essentially of PET flakes through the expanded surface area extruder such that
at least a portion of the polymer melt passes through each respective extruder barrel while each
                                                    31
10411318 I.doex

of the at least six satellite screws is rotating about its the respective axis and the satellite screw
support system is rotating about the main axis.
 15.     The method of Claim 14, wherein the method comprises manufacturing bulked
continuous carpet filament from 100% recycled PET substantially immediately after extruding
the recycled PET.
 16.     The method of Claim 15, wherein manufacturing bulked continuous carpet filament
from 100% recycled PET substantially immediately after extruding the recycled PET comprises
spinning the polymer melt into bulked continuous carpet filament without substantially cooling
the polymer melt.
 17.     The method of Claim 16, wherein the PET crystallizer is configured to reduce a moisture
content of the plurality of flakes consisting essentially of recycled PET to between about 30 and
about 40 parts per million.
 18.     The method of Claim 13, wherein the at least six satellite screws comprise at least eight
satellite screws.
 19.     The method of Claim 18, wherein each of the at least eight satellite screws is at least
partially disposed within a respective extruder barrel.
20.      The method of Claim 13, wherein the pressure regulation system is configured to reduce
the pressure within the expanded surface area extruder to between about 0 mbar and about 18
mbar.
                                                   32
10411318 I.doex

                677                  877   Tex             977                  :77              ;77
                                           t
                                           -.*$$#$& '$#(                              -5#$$#$&
!"#$%#$& '$#(         )*+,#$& '$#(                               /0- 12("3%4"
                                                                                      /*.,#$4
                                                                                                       1/5
                                                 !"#$ %

         2/5
!"#$ &

          3/5
!""
    !"!
        !"#$ '

                                                 455
                             4:5
465
                                              495          485
                                   445
                                                                    4/5
                                         )*+,-",*./&   !*2#.2*,1&
                                         012,3%         03/2.-
                       475
      !"#$$%&'$%(
                    !"#$%&

                        5/5
                                              D77
         /4(,<% <= /*$3=*.(3"#$&
       >3?@4% A<$(#$3<3+ B#?*C4$(
                                          D78
          !"#$% "4.E.?4% F1G H<((?4+
             #$(< * &"<35 <= =?*@4+I
                                          D7:
                  )*+, =?*@4+
                                                D7D
   J%4$(#=E *$% "4C<K4 #C53"#(#4+L #$.?3%#$&
                                           67D
      #C53"4 =?*@4+L ="<C &"<35 <= =?*@4+I
F*++ &"<35 <= =?*@4+ (,"<3&, *$ /0- 42("3%4"      D7M
  N,#?4 C*#$(*#$#$& 5"4++3"4 N#(,#$ *$ /0-
 5<"(#<$ <= (,4 /0- 42("3%4" H4?<N *H<3( 6I;
                    C#??#H*"+I
          F*++ "4+3?(#$& 5<?EC4" C4?(      D67
       (,"<3&, *( ?4*+( <$4 =#?(4" ,*K#$&
          * C#."<$ "*(#$& <= ?4++ (,*$
               *H<3( ;7 C#."<$+I
        B<"C (,4 "4.E.?4% 5<?EC4" #$(<     D68
           H3?@4% .<$(#$3<3+ .*"54(
                    =#?*C4$(I
                                   D6:
                        1$%
                   !"#$ (

