                                       ABSTRACT
       A surgical draping system includes an under-draping, an over-draping, and a
connecting draping connected by the under-draping and the over-draping. The surgical
draping system is used to establish and maintain a surgical corridor to a surgical site or
sites on a patient supported by a surgical table. The surgical draping system can
accommodate rotation of the patient on the surgical table, such that the sterile surgical
corridor is maintained even during such rotation. The sterile surgical corridor extends
through an aperture formed in the over-draping, through an enclosed passageway
formed through the connecting draping, and through an aperture formed in the under
draping.

  1/14
N
           (23
       I-'

                              SURGICAL DRAPING SYSTEM AND
                                  METHOD FOR USING SAME
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
                                   FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]       The present invention relates to a surgical draping system and method for
using same for facilitating establishment and maintenance for a sterile surgical field
around a patient. More particularly, the present invention relates to a surgical draping
system and method for using same for facilitating establishment and maintenance of a
sterile surgical field even during articulation of a patient using a specialized surgical
table. More specifically, the present invention relates to a surgical draping system and
method for using same for establishing and maintaining a sterile surgical field even
during rotation of a patient by a specialized surgical table.
                              DESCRIPTION OF THE PRIOR ART
[0002]       A sterile field must be established and maintained during a surgical
procedure. A sterile field has traditionally been established and maintained using a
conventional sterile surgical drape laid over a patient positioned on a conventional
operating room table. The conventional surgical drape generally stays statically
positioned over the patient, and is used to establish zones of sterile and non-sterile
fields. The space above the surface of the conventional operating table including
portions of the conventional surgical drape in this space are considered a sterile field.
Furthermore, the space from the surface of the conventional operating table to the floor
including portions of the conventional surgical drape in this space are considered a non
sterile field.
[0003]       Simultaneous access spinal procedures have become more common. During
such procedures, for example, a posterior portion of the patient and a lateral side of the
patient can be accessed, or an anterior portion of the patient and a lateral side of the
patient can be accessed. Specialized surgical tables for repositioning and/or
                                                1

manipulating the patient have been provided to facilitate the simultaneous access spinal
procedures. During a simultaneous access spinal procedure, the surgical site or sites
must remain sterile during any repositioning and/or manipulation of the patient.
However, if, for example, the patient is rotated using a specialized surgical table,
portions of the patient and the draping covering the patient may pass into the non-sterile
field. Therefore, there is a need for a surgical draping system and method for using
same for facilitating the establishment and maintenance of a surgical field around a
surgical site or sites even during articulation of the patient during surgery. To illustrate,
the surgical draping system and method for using same can be used to maintain a
sterile field around a surgical site or sites during rotation of the patient.
                              SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0004]       The present invention in one preferred embodiment contemplates a surgical
draping system for creating a sterile surgical corridor to at least two surgical sites on a
patient during articulation of the patient with a surgical table positioned on an operating
room floor, the surgical draping system including an under-draping configured for
positioning over the patient, a portion of the under-draping being capable of being
maintained in a substantially static position with respect to the patient, the portion of the
under-draping including a first aperture therethrough, the first aperture being sized to
afford access to the at least two surgical sites on the patient, an over-draping configured
for positioning over the under-draping and the patient, a portion of the over-draping
being capable of being maintained in a substantially static position with respect to the
operating room floor, the over-draping including a second aperture therethrough, the
second aperture being sized to afford access to the at least two surgical sites on the
patient, a connecting draping configured for attachment between the under-draping and
the over-draping, the connecting draping being expandable and contractible between a
first position and a second position, the connecting draping including a first end, a
second end, a third aperture formed at the first end, a fourth aperture formed at the
second end, and an enclosed passageway therethrough from the third aperture at the
first end to the fourth aperture at the second end, the first end being attachable around
                                                2

the first aperture of the under-draping and the second end being attachable around the
second aperture of the under-draping to create the sterile surgical corridor through the
enclosed passageway between the first aperture of the under-draping and the second
aperture of the over-draping to afford access to the at least two surgical sites, where,
when the under-draping is positioned over the patient, the over-draping is positioned
over the under-draping and the patient, and the connecting draping is attached to the
under-draping and the over-draping to afford access to the at least two surgical sites
through the sterile surgical corridor, the patient is articulable on the surgical table, and
portions of the connecting draping expands and contracts to maintain access to the at
least two surgical sites through the sterile surgical corridor enclosed passageway.
[0005]      The present invention in another preferred embodiment contemplates a
method of establishing and maintaining a sterile surgical corridor to at least two surgical
sites on a patient during articulation of a surgical table positioned on an operating table
floor, the method including positioning the patient on the surgical table positioned on the
operating table floor, positioning an under-draping over the patient so that a first
aperture therethrough is positioned over at least two surgical sites on the patient, the
first aperture being sized to afford access to the at least two surgical sites, maintaining
portions of the under-draping in a substantially static position with respect to the patient,
positioning an over-draping over the under-draping and the patient so that a second
aperture therethrough is positioned over the first aperture, the second aperture being
sized to afford access to the at least two surgical sites, attaching a connecting draping
having an enclosed passageway therethrough between a first end and a second end
thereof between the under-draping and the over-draping by attaching the first end and a
third aperture formed at the first end around the first aperture of the under-draping, and
by attaching the second end and a fourth aperture formed at the second end around the
second aperture of the over-draping so that a sterile surgical corridor is formed to the at
least two surgical sites through the over-draping, the connecting draping, and the under
draping, articulating the position of the patient using the surgical table, and maintaining
the sterile surgical corridor through the over-draping, the connecting draping, and the
under-draping during articulation of the patient using the surgical table.
                                               3

[0006]      The present invention in yet another preferred embodiment contemplates a
method of establishing and maintaining a sterile surgical corridor to at least two surgical
sites on a patient during articulation of a surgical table positioned on an operating table
floor, the method including positioning an under-draping over the patient positioned on
the surgical table, aligning a first aperture formed through the under-draping over the at
least two surgical sites on the patient to provide access thereto, positioning an over
draping over the under-draping and the patient, attaching a connecting draping having a
first end with a third aperture, a second end with a fourth aperture, and an enclosed
passageway therethrough between the third and fourth apertures to the under-draping
and the over-draping by attaching the first end and the third aperture around the first
aperture of the under-draping and attaching the second end and the fourth aperture
around a second aperture formed through the over-draping to form the sterile surgical
corridor through the over-draping, the connecting draping, and the under-draping,
articulating the position of the patient using the surgical table, and maintaining the
sterile surgical corridor through the over-draping, the connecting draping, and the
under-draping during articulation of the patient using the surgical table.
[0007]      These and other objects of the present invention will be apparent from review
of the following specification and the accompanying drawings.
                         BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0008]      The accompanying drawings, which are incorporated in and constitute a part
of the specification, illustrate preferred embodiments of the invention. Together with the
description, they serve to explain the objects, advantages and principles of the
invention. In the drawings:
[0009]      FIG. 1 is an exploded perspective view of a draping system including an
under-draping, an over-draping, and a connecting draping for facilitating establishment
and maintenance of a sterile surgical corridor to a surgical site or sites on a patient
supported by a surgical table;
                                                4

[0010]     FIG. 2 is a first perspective view of a majority of the over-draping laid flat
showing extensions formed in the over-draping folded over onto the over-draping;
[0011]     FIG. 3 is a second perspective view of a majority of the over-draping laid flat
showing the extensions formed in the over-draping expanded;
[0012]     FIG. 4 is a perspective fragmentary view showing an aperture formed in the
over-draping and the connecting draping partially expanded underneath the aperture
formed in the over-draping;
[0013]     FIG. 5 is a perspective fragmentary view of the bottom of the over-draping
and the connecting draping showing the connecting draping in an unexpanded position;
[0014]     FIG. 6 is a perspective fragmentary view of the bottom of the over-draping
and the connecting draping showing the connecting draping in an expanded position;
[0015]     FIG. 7 is a top plan view of the under-draping laid flat;
[0016]     FIG. 8 is a top perspective view of a surgical table with the patient positioned
thereon in a prone position;
[0017]     FIG. 9 is a top perspective view of the surgical table of FIG. 8 with the patient
positioned thereon in a lateral position;
[0018]     FIG. 10 is a side perspective view of the under-draping positioned over the
patient supported by the surgical table of FIGS. 8 and 9 in a lateral position;
[0019]     FIG. 11 is an end perspective view of the under-draping positioned over the
patient supported by the surgical table of FIGS. 8 and 9 in a lateral position;
[0020]     FIG. 12 is a side perspective view of the over-draping positioned over the
under-draping and the patient to define the sterile surgical corridor to the surgical site or
sites on the patient supported by the surgical table of FIGS. 8 and 9 in a lateral position;
[0021]     FIG. 13 is an enlarged side fragmentary perspective view from the opposite
side shown in FIG. 12 depicting access to the surgical site or sites through the sterile
surgical corridor with the connecting draping in an unexpanded position with patient in a
lateral position;
                                               5

[0022]       FIG. 14 is an enlarged top side fragmentary perspective view from the side
shown in FIG. 12 also depicting access to the surgical site or sites through the sterile
surgical corridor with the connecting draping in an expanded position with the patient in
a lateral position; and
[0023]       FIG. 15 is a an enlarged side fragmentary perspective view from the side
shown in FIG. 12 depicting the access to the surgical site or sites through the sterile
surgical corridor after the patient has been repositioned using the surgical table of
FIGS. 8 and 9 from a lateral position (FIGS. 12-14) to a prone position
              DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
[0024]       A surgical draping system according to the present invention is generally
referenced by the numeral 10 in FIGS. 1, 4, and 12-15, and portions of the surgical
draping system are depicted in FIGS. 2, 3, 5-7, 10, and 11. The surgical draping
system 10 can be used in conjunction with a surgical table T, as depicted in FIGS. 1, 8,
and 9, capable of articulating the position of a patient P during surgery.
[0025]       Such a surgical table T is disclosed in U.S. Application No. 15/239,256, filed
August 17, 2016, which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. The surgical table
T is capable of rotating the patient P about an axis of rotation A. The articulation of the
patient P using the surgical table T can be used to facilitate performance of
simultaneous access spinal procedures. For example, such simultaneous access spinal
procedures can include accessing one of a right lateral side portion and a left lateral side
portion, and one of an anterior portion and a posterior portion of the patient P.
[0026]       A sterile field must be established and maintained during a surgical
procedure. Traditionally, a sterile field is established and maintained at and above the
surface of a conventional operating table using a conventional surgical drape. The
surface of a conventional operating table usually corresponds to the height of a
surgeon's waist. The space above the surface of the conventional operating table
including portions of the conventional surgical drape in this space are considered a
sterile field. Furthermore, the space from the surface of the conventional operating
                                                6

table to the floor including portions of the conventional surgical drape in this space are
considered a non-sterile field. Given that the surgical table T is capable of articulating
the patient P, portions of the patient (including a surgical site or sites and the space
therearound) and portions of the conventional surgical drape could potentially pass from
the sterile field into the non-sterile field below the height of a surgeon's waist during and
after such rotation.
[0027]      The draping system 10 is provided to establish and maintain a sterile field
around the surgical site or sites and area around the surgical site or sites even during
articulation of the patient P by the surgical table T. For example, the draping system 10
can be used to establish and maintain a sterile surgical corridor 11 to the surgical site or
sites even during articulation of the patient P using the surgical table T. As such, the
patient P, for example, can be rotated by the surgical table T from a lateral position to a
prone position, or vice versa, and the surgical draping system 10 serves in maintaining
a surgical field around the surgical site or sites and area around a surgical site or sites
during such rotation.
[0028]      The surgical draping system 10 includes under-draping 12, over-draping 14,
and connecting draping 16. The under-draping 12, the over-draping 14, and the
connecting draping 16 each can be formed from a single sheet of material or multiple
sheets of material attached together. The under-draping 12, the over-draping 14, and
the connecting draping 16 are made from materials suitable for use as surgical drapes.
As discussed below, the under-draping 12 is positioned to directly contact the patient P,
the over-draping 14 is positioned over the under-draping 12, and the connecting draping
16 connects portions of the under-draping 12 and the over-drawing 14 to one another.
The sterile surgical corridor 11 is provided through the over-draping 14, through the
connecting draping 16, and through the under-draping 12.
[0029]      As depicted in FIGS. 1 and 8-12, the patient P is positioned on the surgical
table T, and the surgical table T is capable of articulating the patient P thereon, i.e., the
surgical table T is capable of rotating the patient P from a prone position (FIG. 8) to a
lateral position (FIG. 9), and is capable of rotating the patient P from the lateral position
(FIG. 9) to the prone position (FIG. 8).
                                                 7

[0030]      The under-draping 12, as depicted in FIGS. 1, 7, 10, and 11, includes a
cranial end 20, a caudal end 22, a first lateral side 24, a second lateral side 26, and a
body portion 28. The body portion 28 is positioned between the cranial end 20, the
caudal end 22, and the first and second lateral sides 24 and 26. As their names
suggest, the cranial end 20 is positioned on the upper portion of the patient P (FIGS. 10
and 11), and the caudal end 22 is positioned on the lower portion of the patient P
(FIGS. 10 and 11). The first and second lateral sides 24 and 26 extend between the
cranial end 20 and the caudal end 22. When, as depicted in FIG. 7, the under-draping
12 is laid upon a flat surface, the under-draping 12 is generally rectangular. However,
the under-draping 12 can have any number of shapes provided that it is large enough to
cover all or parts of the surgical table T, and all or parts of the patient P.
[0031]      As depicted in FIGS. 10 and 11, large portions of the under-draping 12
(including the body portion 28) are positioned to directly contact and cover the patient P.
As such, large portions of the under-draping 12 are positioned statically with respect to
the patient P. Other portions of the under-draping 12 at the cranial end of the patent P
are supported by support stands 36 and 38. Support the under-draping 12 by the
support stands 36 and 38 afford access to the head of the patient P.
[0032]      The under-draping 12 includes an aperture 30 formed through the body
portion 28 for positioning over at least two surgical sites on the patient P. The aperture
30 can be one or more apertures, and can have any size and shape so long as access
is provided to at least two surgical sites therethrough. For example, the aperture 30
could have generally digonal, polygonal, circular, oval, elliptical, cross, etc. shapes. The
aperture 30 can be sized and shaped to, for example, provide access to one of a right
lateral side portion and a left lateral side portion of the patient, and one of an anterior
portion and a posterior portion of the patient P.
[0033]      As depicted in FIG. 7, the aperture 30 has a rectangular shape, and, when
the aperture 30 is positioned over the at least two surgical sites (FIGS. 10 and 11), the
aperture 30 is oriented such that the long axis thereof extends in a direction transverse
to the axis of rotation A. As discussed above, the aperture 30 can be sized and shaped
such that it extends from a surgical site affording access to a posterior side of the
                                                 8

patient P to a surgical site affording access to a lateral side of the patient P, or extends
from a surgical site affording access to an anterior side of the patient P to a surgical site
affording access to a lateral side of the patient P.
[0034]       The aperture 30 could also be sized to extend from one lateral side to the
other lateral side of the patient P across either the posterior side or the anterior side of
the patient P. As such, the aperture 30 could be sized to afford access to three surgical
sites: a first lateral surgical site on one side of the patient P, a second lateral surgical
site on the other side of the patient P, and a third surgical site on either the posterior
side or the anterior side of the patient P.
[0035]       The rectangular-shaped aperture 30 can also be oriented such that the long
axis thereof extends in a direction aligned with the axis of rotation A. As such, the
rectangular-shaped aperture 30 could be positioned to extend along the spine of the
patient P to afford access to different surgical sites along the spine.
[0036]       The aperture 30 can also be sized and shaped as a cross. The cross-shaped
aperture 30 can include two long axes such that a first of the long axes extends in a
direction transverse to the axis of rotation A, and a second of the long axes extends in a
direction aligned with the axis of rotation A. As such, the first of the long axes can
extend from a surgical site affording access to a posterior side of the patient P to a
surgical site affording access to a lateral side of the patient P, or extend from a surgical
site affording access to an anterior side of the patient P to a surgical site affording
access to a lateral side of the patient P. Furthermore, the second of the long axes can
extend along the spine of the patient P to afford access to different surgical sites along
the spine.
[0037]       The over-draping 14, as depicted in FIGS. 1-3 and 12, includes a cranial end
40, a caudal end 42, a first lateral side 44, a second lateral side 46, and a body portion
48. The body portion 48 is positioned between the cranial end 40, the caudal end 42,
and the first and second lateral sides 44 and 46. As their names suggest, the cranial
end 40 is positioned adjacent the upper portion of the patient P, and the caudal end 42
is positioned adjacent the lower portion of the patient P. The first and second lateral
sides 44 and 46 extend between the cranial end 40 and the caudal end 42. When, as
                                                 9

depicted in FIGS. 2 and 3, the over-draping 14 is laid upon a flat surface, the over
draping 14 is generally rectangular. However, the over-draping 14 can have any
number of shapes provided that it is large enough to cover all or parts of the under
draping 12, all or parts of the surgical table T, and all or parts of the patient P.
[0038]     The over-draping 14 can have a plurality of extensions that afford a variety of
three-dimensional shapes for the over-draping 14 when the over-draping 14 is
positioned over the under-draping 12. As discussed below, portions of the over-draping
14 are hung over the under-draping 12, the surgical table T, and the patient P. For
example, the over-draping can include a first extension 50 and a second extension 52
along the cranial end 40, and a third extension 54 and a fourth extension 56 along the
caudal end 42. The plurality of extensions could also be provided along the first and
second lateral sides 44 and 46.
[0039]     As depicted in FIGS. 2 and 3, the extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56 could be
formed as pleatings provided in the remainder of over-draping. As such, the extensions
50, 52, 54, and 56 can each be formed from an additional amount of material formed or
inserted into the remainder of the over-draping 14. This additional amount of material
for each of the extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56 exhibits as material folded over onto itself
when the over-draping 14 is laid upon a flat surface, as depicted in FIG. 2. As
discussed below, portions of the extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56 are attached to and
supported at heights above the under-draping 12, the surgical table T, and the
patient P, and support stands 62, 64, 66, and 68 (FIGS. 2 and 3) can be used for such
support. The slack in the over-draping 14 afforded by the extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56
allow for articulation of the patient P and the under-draping 12 by the surgical table T
thereunder without pulling the over-draping 14 down from the support stands 62, 64, 66,
and 68.
[0040]     Rather than being formed as pleatings, the extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56
could be formed from additional amounts of material provided at the cranial end 40 and
the caudal end 42 afforded by the shape the over-draping 14. For example, when laid
upon a flat surface, the first and second lateral sides 44 and 46 could taper from both
the cranial end 40 and the caudal end 42 toward the middle of the over-draping 14. As
                                               10

such, the over-draping 14 could have an "hourglass" shape with more material provided
adjacent the cranial end 40 and the caudal end 42, than adjacent the middle of the over
draping 14. Portions of the additional material forming the extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56
could then be attached to and supported at heights above the under-draping 12, the
surgical table T, and the patient P using the support stands 62, 64, 66, and 68.
[0041]     By attaching and supporting portions of the extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56 of
the over-draping 14 at heights above the under-draping 12, the surgical table T, and the
patient P, large portions of the over-draping 14 can remain in a semi-static position with
respect to the operating room floor as the patient P and the under-draping 12 is
articulated by the surgical table T. That is, because the over-draping 14 is effectively
hung using the extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56 at heights above the under-draping 12,
the surgical table T, and the patient P using the support stands 62, 64, 66, and 68, large
portions of the over-draping 14 (including the body portion 48) can remain largely in
position as the patient P and the under-draping 12 is articulated by the surgical table T.
[0042]     The extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56 are attached to the support stands 62, 64,
66, and 68, respectively. The support stands 62, 64, 66, and 68 are positioned around
the surgical table T with the support stands 62 and 64 being positioned adjacent the
cranial end of the patient P and adjacent the cranial end 40 of the over-draping 14, and
the support stands 66 and 68 being positioned adjacent the caudal end of the patient P
and adjacent the caudal end 42 of the over-draping 14. The heights of the support
stands 62, 64, 66, and 68 can be adjustable upwardly and downwardly, and the upper
portions thereof include attachment mechanisms for attaching the extensions 50, 52,
54, and 56 thereto. By attaching the extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56 to the support
stands 62, 64, 66, and 68, respectively, the body portion 48 of the over-draping 14 can
be hung therebetween. Furthermore, while the extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56 are
attached directly to the support stands 62, 64, 66, and 68, straps (not shown) attached
to portions of the extensions 50, 52, 54, and 56 and/or other portions of the over-drape
14 can be used in attaching the over-draping 14 to the support stands 62, 64, 66,
and 68.
                                              11

[0043]      As depicted in FIGS. 1, 4, and 12-15, portions of the over-draping 14
(including the body portion 48) are positioned above the aperture 30 formed in the
under-draping 12. The over-draping 14 includes an aperture 60 formed through the
body portion 48 for positioning over the aperture 30 and the at least two surgical sites.
The aperture 60 can be one or more apertures, and can be sized, shaped, and oriented
to correspond to the size and shape of the aperture 30. For example, like the aperture
30, the aperture 60 can have generally digonal, polygonal, circular, oval, elliptical, cross,
etc. shapes.
[0044]      As depicted in FIGS. 1-3, the aperture 60 has a rectangular shape
corresponding to the rectangular-shaped aperture 30, and when the aperture 60 is
positioned over the aperture 30 and at least two surgical sites, the aperture 60 is
oriented such that the long axis thereof extends in a direction oriented with the long axis
of the aperture 30. If the aperture 30 is sized and shaped to extend from a surgical site
affording access to a posterior side of the patient P to a surgical site affording access to
a lateral side of the patient P, extend from a surgical site affording access to an anterior
side of the patient P to a surgical site affording access to a lateral side of the patient P,
or extend from a surgical site on one lateral side to a surgical site on the other lateral
side of the patient P across either the posterior side or the anterior side of the patient P,
the aperture 60 is sized, shaped, and oriented accordingly. Furthermore, the aperture
60 would similarly be sized, shaped, and oriented to correspond to the aperture 30 if the
aperture 30 is cross-shaped.
[0045]      The apertures 30 and 60 are interconnected with one another using the
connecting draping 16. The connecting draping 16 forms an enclosed passageway 70
between the apertures 30 and 60, and the connecting draping 16 is capable of
expanding and contracting. The aperture 60, the enclosed passageway 70, and the
aperture 30 form the sterile surgical corridor 11 to the surgical site or sites. As such,
given that the patient P and the under-draping 12 can be articulated relative to the over
draping 14 using the surgical table T, the enclosed passageway 70 (and hence, the
sterile surgical corridor 11) can change its orientation to accommodate the articulation
of the patient P and under-draping 12. In other words, the capability of expansion and
contraction of the connecting draping 16 allows the connecting draping 16 to change its
                                                12

shape as the patient P and the under-draping 12 are moved relative to the over-draping
14. For example, during rotation of the patient P and the under-draping 12, the
connecting draping 16 would articulate to maintain access to the surgical site or sites
via the sterile surgical corridor 11 formed by the aperture 60, the enclosed passageway
70, and the aperture 30.
[0046]      As depicted in FIGS. 12-14, access by a surgeon is provided to a first surgical
site S1, when the patient P is supported in a lateral position by the surgical table T. As
discussed above, the apertures 30 and 60 are sized and shaped to also provide access
to a second surgical site     S2, as depicted in FIG. 15. FIG. 15 depicts the patient P
supported in a prone position by the surgical table T. Rotation of the patient P and the
under-draping 12 away from a position for accessing the first surgical site S1 in FIGS.
12-14 causes the connecting draping 16 to expand in order to adjust to the rotation. As
depicted in FIG. 15, such adjustment serves providing access to the second surgical
site S2 to access by a surgeon, while still maintaining a sterile surgical corridor 11
through the aperture 60, the enclosed passageway 70, and the aperture 30.
Furthermore, given the rotation of the patient P from a lateral position (FIGS. 12-14) to a
prone position (FIG. 15), the sterile surgical corridor 11 through the aperture 60, the
enclosed passageway 70, and the aperture 30 creates access to an area 90 underneath
the patient P. Access to a position underneath the patient P such as the area 90 was
typically not available during surgery.
[0047]      As discussed above, a sterile field must be established and maintained during
a surgical procedure, and a sterile field is established and maintained at and above the
surface of a conventional operating table. The surgical draping system 10 afford
establishment and maintenance of the sterile surgical corridor, even when the patient P
and under-draping 12 are articulated by the surgical table T. As discussed above, the
under-draping 12 is positioned to directly contact the patient P, and the aperture 30
provides access to at least two surgical sites. The area around the at least two surgical
sites is in the sterile field established by use of the under-draping 12. Furthermore, as
discussed above, the over-draping 14 is effectively hung at heights above the under
draping 12, the surgical table T, and the patient P. The sterile field is also established
by the over-draping 14. However, when the patient P is rotated by the surgical table T,
                                                 13

one or more of the surgical sites could potentially pass into the non-sterile field below
the height of a surgeon's waist. Use of the connecting draping 16 facilitates
establishment and maintenance of the sterile surgical corridor 11 via the aperture 60,
the enclosed passageway 70, and the aperture 30 even if one or more of the surgical
sites pass below the height of a surgeon's waist.
[0048]      The connecting draping 16 can be made of sterile fabric materials affording
expansion and contracting thereof. The connecting draping 16 can be made of an
expandable and contractible elastic fabric. Furthermore, as depicted in FIGS. 4-6, the
connecting draping 16 can be made of an expandable and contractible fabric bellows,
or, in other words, a fabric having been folded in accordion folds. The fabric bellows
can also include elastic properties. As depicted in FIGS. 5 and 6, the accordion folds
allow the connecting draping 16 to expand and contract. For example, the connecting
draping 16 can be formed from a first section 72, a second section 74, a third section
76, and a fourth section 78 each formed from a fabric folded in accordion folds that
allow for expansion and contraction thereof.
[0049]      The connecting draping 16 can be attached to the under-draping 12 and the
over-draping 14 using adhesive materials formed thereon. For example, adhesive strips
80 can be provided on portions of the first section 72, the second section 74, the third
section 76, and the forth section 78 to attach the connecting draping 16 to the under
draping 12 and the over-draping 14. To illustrate, as depicted in FIGS. 5 and 6, the
adhesive strips 80 can be provided on a bottom surface 82 of the connecting draping 16,
and these adhesive strips 80 can be used to attach the connecting draping 16 to the
under-draping 12. Similarly, the adhesive strips 80 can be provided on a top surface
(not shown) of the connecting draping 16, and these adhesive strips 80 can be used to
attach the connecting draping 16 to the over-draping 14. Rather than using adhesive
strips 80, the connecting draping 16 can be attached to the under-draping 12 and the
over-draping 14 using, for example, liquid or solid adhesives, needle and thread,
mechanical fasteners, or Velcro, or the like.
                                              14

[0050]       As discussed above, the apertures 30 and 60 can be one or more apertures,
and can be sized, shaped, and oriented to correspond to the size and shape of the
aperture 30. When more than one of the apertures 30 and 60 are used, additional
connecting drapings 16 can be provided. That is, a first connecting draping 16 and its
enclosed passageway 70 can be used with a first set of apertures 30 and 60 to provide
a first sterile surgical corridor, and a second connecting draping 16 and its enclosed
passageway 70 can be used with a second set of apertures 30 and 60 to provide a
second sterile surgical corridor. As such, the first sterile surgical corridor can provide
access to a first surgical site or sites, and the second sterile surgical corridor can
provide access to a second surgical site or sites spaced, where the first and second
surgical site or sites are spaced apart from one another on the patient P.
[0051]       Additionally, to aid a surgeon during surgery, the over-draping 14 can include
pockets 86 attached thereto. The pockets 86 can be used to store various extraneous
surgical materials during surgery. Furthermore, as depicted in FIG. 12, a valley or gully
88 formed in the over-draping 14 during support thereof by the support stands 66 and
68 can also be used to hold extraneous surgical materials during surgery.
[0052]       The under-draping 12, the over-draping 14, and the connecting draping 16
can be permanently or semi-permanently attached to one another at the above
discussed areas prior to placement relative to the patient P and the surgical table T.
Furthermore, when permanently or semi-permanently attached to one another, the
under-draping 12, the over-draping 14, and the connecting draping 16 can be packaged
with one another. In doing so, the under-draping 12, the over-draping 14, and the
connecting draping 16 can be folded to fit in a single package (not shown), and the
folding of the under-draping 12, the over-draping 14, and the connecting 16 can serve in
facilitating first the deployment of the under-draping 12 and then the deployment of the
over-draping 14, or first the deployment of the over-draping 14 and then the deployment
of the under-draping 12.
[0053]       Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art
from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. It
                                                15

is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only, with a
true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.
                                             16

CLAIMS:
 1.     A surgical draping system for creating a sterile surgical corridor to at least two
       surgical sites on a patient during articulation of the patient with a surgical table
       positioned on an operating room floor, the surgical draping system comprising:
             an under-draping configured for positioning over the patient, a portion of
     the under-draping being capable of being maintained in a substantially static
     position with respect to the patient, the portion of the under-draping including a
     first aperture therethrough, the first aperture being sized to afford access to the at
     least two surgical sites on the patient;
             an over-draping configured for positioning over the under-draping and the
     patient, a portion of the over-draping being capable of being maintained in a
     substantially static position with respect to the operating room floor, the over
     draping including a second aperture therethrough, the second aperture being
     sized to afford access to the at least two surgical sites on the patient;
             a connecting draping configured for attachment between the under
     draping and the over-draping, the connecting draping being expandable and
     contractible between a first position and a second position, the connecting
     draping including a first end, a second end, a third aperture formed at the first
     end, a fourth aperture formed at the second end, and an enclosed passageway
     therethrough from the third aperture at the first end to the fourth aperture at the
     second end, the first end being attachable around the first aperture of the under
     draping and the second end being attachable around the second aperture of the
     under-draping to create the sterile surgical corridor through the enclosed
     passageway between the first aperture of the under-draping and the second
     aperture of the over-draping to afford access to the at least two surgical sites;
             wherein, when the under-draping is positioned over the patient, the over
     draping is positioned over the under-draping and the patient, and the connecting
     draping is attached to the under-draping and the over-draping to afford access to
     the at least two surgical sites through the sterile surgical corridor, the patient is
                                             17

   articulable on the surgical table, and portions of the connecting draping expands
   and contracts to maintain access to the at least two surgical sites through the
   sterile surgical corridor enclosed passageway.
2. The surgical draping system according to claim 1, wherein portions of the over
   draping are configured to be supportable at positions above the patient, at least a
   first portion and a second portion of the over-draping being supported at one end
   of the patient, and at least a third portion of the over-draping being supported at
   the other end of the patient.
3. The surgical draping system according to claim 1, further comprising at least a
   first support stand and a second support stand positioned at one end of the
   patient, and a third support stand positioned at the other end of the patient, the
   first, second, and third support stands being configured for supporting portions of
   the over-draping over the patient, the first support stand supporting a first portion
   of the over-draping, the second support stand supporting a second portion of the
   over-draping, and the third support stand supporting a third portion of the over
   draping.
4. The surgical draping system of claim 3, wherein the first portion of the over
   draping includes a first pleating in the over-draping, the second portion of the
   over-draping includes a second pleating in the over-draping, and the third portion
   of the over-draping includes a third pleating in the over-draping, the first, second,
   and third pleatings providing slack in the over-draping.
5. The surgical draping system of claim 1, wherein the connecting draping is formed
   from an expandable and contractible elastic fabric.
6. The surgical draping system of claim 1, wherein the connecting draping is
   configured as a bellows to afford expansion and contraction of the connecting
   draping.
7. The surgical draping system of claim 1, wherein the connecting includes at least
   a first foldable portion, a second foldable portion, and a third foldable portion, the
                                           18

   first, second, and third foldable portions affording expansion and contraction of
   the connecting draping.
8. The surgical draping system of claim 1, wherein the at least two surgical sites on
   the patient include one of a right lateral side portion and a left lateral side portion,
   and one of an anterior portion and a posterior portion of the patient.
9. A method of establishing and maintaining a sterile surgical corridor to at least two
   surgical sites on a patient during articulation of a surgical table positioned on an
   operating table floor, the method comprising:
            positioning the patient on the surgical table positioned on the operating
   table floor;
            positioning an under-draping over the patient so that a first aperture
   therethrough is positioned over at least two surgical sites on the patient, the first
   aperture being sized to afford access to the at least two surgical sites;
            maintaining portions of the under-draping in a substantially static position
   with respect to the patient;
            positioning an over-draping over the under-draping and the patient so that
   a second aperture therethrough is positioned over the first aperture, the second
   aperture being sized to afford access to the at least two surgical sites;
            attaching a connecting draping having an enclosed passageway
   therethrough between a first end and a second end thereof between the under
   draping and the over-draping by attaching the first end and a third aperture
   formed at the first end around the first aperture of the under-draping, and by
   attaching the second end and a fourth aperture formed at the second end around
   the second aperture of the over-draping so that a sterile surgical corridor is
   formed to the at least two surgical sites through the over-draping, the connecting
   draping, and the under-draping;
            articulating the position of the patient using the surgical table; and
                                             19

            maintaining the sterile surgical corridor through the over-draping, the
    connecting draping, and the under-draping during articulation of the patient using
    the surgical table.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising at least one of expanding and
    contracting the connecting draping to accommodate articulation of the patient
    using the surgical table.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising supporting a first portion and a second
    portion of the over-draping adjacent one end of the patient above the patient and
    the surgical table, and supporting a third portion of the over-draping adjacent the
    other end of the patient above the patient and the surgical table;
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising maintaining the first, second, and
    third portions of the over-draping in a substantially static position during
    articulation of the patient using the surgical table.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein a first stand is used to support the first portion
    of the over-draping, a second stand is used to support the second portion of the
    over-draping, and a third stand is used to support the third portion of the over
    draping.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the connecting draping is formed from an
    expandable and contractible elastic fabric.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the connecting draping is configured as a
    bellows to afford expansion and contraction of the connecting draping.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the connecting draping includes at least a first
    foldable portion, a second foldable portion, and a third foldable portion, the first,
    second, and third foldable portions affording expansion and contraction of the
    connecting draping.
                                           20

17. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least two surgical sites on the patient
    include one of a right lateral side portion and a left lateral side portion, and one of
    an anterior portion and a posterior portion of the patient.
18. A method of establishing and maintaining a sterile surgical corridor to at least two
    surgical sites on a patient during articulation of a surgical table positioned on an
    operating table floor, the method comprising:
           positioning an under-draping over the patient positioned on the surgical
    table;
           aligning a first aperture formed through the under-draping over the at least
    two surgical sites on the patient to provide access thereto;
           positioning an over-draping over the under-draping and the patient;
           attaching a connecting draping having a first end with a third aperture, a
    second end with a fourth aperture, and an enclosed passageway therethrough
    between the third and fourth apertures to the under-draping and the over-draping
    by attaching the first end and the third aperture around the first aperture of the
    under-draping and attaching the second end and the fourth aperture around a
    second aperture formed through the over-draping to form the sterile surgical
    corridor through the over-draping, the connecting draping, and the under-draping;
           articulating the position of the patient using the surgical table; and
           maintaining the sterile surgical corridor through the over-draping, the
    connecting draping, and the under-draping during articulation of the patient using
    the surgical table.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising at least one of expanding and
    contracting the connecting draping to accommodate articulation of the patient
    using the surgical table.
                                            21

20. The method of claim 18, wherein the at least two surgical sites on the patient
    include one of a right lateral side portion and a left lateral side portion, and one of
    an anterior portion and a posterior portion of the patient.
                                            22

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
