                                       ABSTRACT
        A coverplate assembly for covering a gap between two concrete slabs, the
  coverplate assembly including a cap member locatable over the gap between the
5 two concrete slabs, the cap member is flexible to bend with the relative vertical
  movement of the two concrete slabs, and a first cover, the first cover has a
  connection portion to attach the first cover to a first one of the two concrete slabs,
  and a shoulder portion to cover part of the cap member.

                          2/5
                                           10
           22                                 42
32                   30   3656        50            52
   -    24     28 > 60                           \4
     26             60     -
                                 1246
              14                         16
                        Figure 2

                                               -1
                                   COVERPLATE ASSEMBLY
                                     FIELD OF INVENTION
          The present invention relates to a coverplate assembly. Reference will be
 5 made in the specification to the use of the invention with respect to concrete slab
   expansion joints.     The patent specification describes this use but it is by way of
   example only and the invention is not limited to this use.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
 0         Large concrete slab structures require expansion joints to allow for movement
   of the concrete slabs relative to each other.
          The expansion joints can cause problems when located in areas of vehicular
   or pedestrian traffic. Large gaps between concrete slabs can cause damage to tyres
   and wheels of vehicles and can be a trip hazard or worse for pedestrian traffic.
 5         Some expansion joints have rubber seals located between the concrete slabs.
   A problem with this is that the rubber seals can be damaged by traffic passing over
   them.
           In some instances, metal coverplates are used to deal with movement
   between concrete slabs. The metal coverplates typically have one member attached
 0 to one concrete slab which overhangs another member attached to another concrete
   slab.
          A problem with existing coverplates is that they are required to be quite large
   to allow for the movement of the concrete slabs.          Additionally, the overhanging
   portions must be strong enough to support the traffic that crosses the coverplates.
25         Furthermore, the relative vertical movement of the concrete slabs can bend or
   otherwise damage the metal coverplates.
                                 OBJECT OF THE INVENTION
           It is an object of the present invention to overcome or at least alleviate one or
30 more of the above mentioned problems with coverplate assemblies and/or provide
   the consumer with a useful or commercial choice.

                                  SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
           In one aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a coverplate assembly
   for covering a gap between two concrete slabs, the coverplate assembly including
           a cap member locatable over the gap between the two concrete slabs, the
 5 cap member is flexible to bend with the relative vertical movement of the two
   concrete slabs; and
           a first cover, the first cover has a connection portion to attach the first cover to
   a first one of the two concrete slabs, and a shoulder portion to cover part of the cap
   member.
 o         In use, the cap member preferably supports the shoulder portion of the first
   cover. The cap member is preferably locatable over at least a portion of at least one
   of the two concrete slabs. More preferably the cap member is locatable over at least
   a portion of each of the two concrete slabs. In use, the cap member is preferably
   held in position over the gap between the two concrete slabs by the shoulder portion
 5 of the first cover. In one embodiment, the cap member is glued to at least one of the
   two concrete slabs.
           The cap member is preferably made from a flexible material.                The cap
   member is preferably made of rubber. More preferably the cap member is made of
   EPDM rubber. In one embodiment, the cap member is made of foamed rubber. The
 0 cap member preferably has a rectangular cross section. The cap member preferably
   has a height that is substantially the same as the height difference between a part of
   the connection portion of the first cover that abuts the first one of the two concrete
   slabs and a part of the shoulder portion that abuts the cap member.
           The first cover preferably has a plurality of apertures located in the connection
25 portion to attach the first cover to the first one of the two concrete slabs using
   fasteners. The fasteners are preferably concrete screws. In another embodiment,
   the first cover is glued to the first of the two concrete slabs.           The first cover
   preferably has a ramped portion to ease the transition between the first one of the
   two concrete slabs and the first cover.
30         The first cover is preferably made of metal. The first cover is preferably made
   of aluminium.      The first cover is preferably made of extruded aluminium.           More
   preferably the first cover is made of anodised aluminium.         In another embodiment,
   the first cover is made of plastic. In a further embodiment, the first cover is made of
   steel. More preferably the first cover is made of stainless steel.

                                              -3
          In use, the shoulder portion of the first cover preferably abuts the cap member
   to provide additional support to the shoulder portion.
          The first cover preferably includes ridges on an upper surface to provide grip.
   The ridges are preferably knurled to provide extra grip.
 5        In one embodiment, the coverplate assembly includes a second cover, the
   second cover has a connection portion to attach the second cover to a second one
   of the two concrete slabs, and a shoulder portion to cover part of the cap member.
   The second cover preferably has a plurality of apertures located in the connection
   portion to attach the second cover to the second one of the two concrete slabs using
 0 fasteners. The fasteners are preferably concrete screws. In another embodiment,
   the second cover is glued to the second of the two concrete slabs. The second
   cover preferably has a ramped portion to ease the transition between the second
   one of the two concrete slabs and the second cover.
          The second cover is preferably made of metal.              The second cover is
 5 preferably made of aluminium.      The second cover is preferably made of extruded
   aluminium.    More preferably the second cover is made of anodised aluminium.        In
   another embodiment, the second cover is made of plastic. In a further embodiment,
   the second cover is made of steel. More preferably the second cover is made of
   stainless steel. In use, the shoulder portion of the second cover preferably abuts the
 0 cap member to provide additional support to the shoulder portion.
          The second cover preferably includes ridges on an upper surface to provide
   grip. The ridges are preferably knurled to provide extra grip.
          The second cover is preferably spaced from the first cover in use.          The
   second cover preferably does not overlap with the first cover in use.
25        The cap member is preferably held in position over the gap between the two
   concrete slabs by the shoulder portion of the first cover and the shoulder portion of
   the second cover in use.
          Preferably there is an elongate seal locatable between the two concrete slabs.
   In one embodiment, the elongate seal is part of the coverplate assembly In use, the
30 elongate seal is located beneath the cap member. The elongate seal is preferably
   attached to both of the two concrete slabs. The elongate seal is preferably glued to
   both of the two concrete slabs.      The elongate seal preferably has one or more
   groves located on opposed sides. The one or more grooves preferably retain glue to
   glue the elongate seal to the two concrete slabs. The elongate seal is preferably

                                              -4
   located flush with the top surface of the first one of the two concrete slabs. More
   preferably, the elongate seal is located flush with the top surface of the two concrete
   slabs.
          The elongate seal is preferably made from a flexible material. The elongate
 5 seal is preferably made of crosslinked polyolefin. Alternatively the elongate seal is
   made of EVA foam. In one embodiment the elongate seal is made of rubber. More
   preferably the elongate seal is made of EPDM rubber.          In one embodiment, the
   elongate seal is made of foamed rubber. In another embodiment, the elongate seal
   is made from polyurethane or polypropylene The elongate seal preferably has a
 0 substantially rectangular cross section. The elongate seal is preferably adapted to
   compress and expand to accommodate movement of the two concrete slabs.
          Preferably the elongate seal is not attached to the cap member.        In another
   embodiment, the elongate seal is attached to the cap member.                In a further
   embodiment the elongate seal and the cap member form one part.
 5        In one embodiment the coverplate assembly includes a holding member
   locatable under at least a portion of the cap member.          The holding member is
   preferably attached to a second one of the two concrete slabs. In use, the holding
   member is preferably partially located under the cap member. The holding member
   preferably has an L-shaped cross section.          The holding member is preferably
 0 attached to the second one of the two concrete slabs at a level above a top surface
   of the first of the two concrete slabs. The holding member is preferably partially
   located between the cap member and the elongate seal.           The holding member is
   preferably used when the second of the two concrete slabs is substantially raised or
   angled at substantially 90 degrees relative to the first of the two concrete slabs. In
25 one embodiment, the holding member is attached to the cap member.             Preferably
   the holding member is attached to the elongate seal.
          The holding member preferably has a plurality of apertures to attach the
   holding member to the second one of the two concrete slabs using fasteners. The
   fasteners are preferably concrete screws.        In another embodiment, the holding
30 member is glued to the second of the two concrete slabs.
          The holding member is preferably made of metal.         The holding member is
   preferably made of aluminium.       More preferably the holding member is made of
   anodised aluminium.      In another embodiment, the holding member is made of

   plastic.    In a further embodiment, the holding member is made of steel.              More
   preferably the holding member is made of stainless steel.
           The holding member is preferably spaced from the first cover. The holding
   member preferably does not overlap with the first cover.
 5         In one embodiment, in use, the first cover is attached to a recessed portion of
   the first of the two concrete slabs. Preferably the recessed portion is substantially
   the same depth as the height of the first cover.         Preferably the second cover is
   attached to a recessed portion of the second of the two concrete slabs. Preferably
   the recessed portion of the second of the two concrete slabs is substantially the
 0 same depth as the height of the second cover.
           In one embodiment, the gap between the two concrete slabs is between
   20mm and 200mm.
           In another aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a coverplate
   assembly for covering a gap between two concrete slabs, the coverplate assembly
 5 including
           a cap member locatable over the gap between the two concrete slabs, the
   cap member is flexible to bend with the relative vertical movement of the two
   concrete slabs;
           a first cover, the first cover has a connection portion to attach the first cover to
 0 a first one of the two concrete slabs, and a shoulder portion to cover part of the cap
   member; and
           a second cover, the second cover has a connection portion to attach the
   second cover to a second one of the two concrete slabs, and a shoulder portion to
   cover part of the cap member.
25         Preferably in use the first cover and the second cover are spaced from one
   another. Preferably in use, the shoulder portions of the first cover and the second
   cover are supported by the cap member.
           In a further aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a method of
   covering a gap between two concrete slabs, including the steps of
30         locating a cap member over the gap between the two concrete slabs, the cap
   member is flexible to bend with the relative vertical movement of the two concrete
   slabs; and
           attaching a first cover to a first one of the two concrete slabs such that a
   shoulder portion of the first cover covers part of the cap member.

                                              -6
           Preferably the method further includes the step of attaching a second cover to
   a second one of the two concrete slabs such that a shoulder portion of the second
   cover covers part of the cap member.
           Preferably the method further includes the step of positioning an elongate seal
 5 between the two concrete slabs.
           Preferably the step of locating a cap member over the gap between the two
   concrete slabs includes locating the cap member over the elongate seal.
           Preferably the method further includes the step of retaining the cap member
   over the gap between the two concrete slabs using the shoulder portion of the first
 0 cover and the shoulder portion of the second cover.
           Preferably the step of locating a cap member over the gap between the two
   concrete slabs includes locating the cap member over at least a portion of at least
   one of the two concrete slabs. Preferably the step of locating the cap member over
   at least a portion of at least one of the two concrete slabs includes locating the cap
 5 member over at least a portion of the other of the of the two concrete slabs.
           In another aspect, the present invention broadly resides in a method of
   covering a gap between two concrete slabs, including the steps of
           locating a cap member over the gap between the two concrete slabs, the cap
   member is flexible to bend with the relative vertical movement of the two concrete
 0 slabs;
           attaching a first cover to a first one of the two concrete slabs such that a
   shoulder portion of the first cover covers part of the cap member; and
           attaching a second cover to a second one of the two concrete slabs such that
   a shoulder portion of the second cover covers part of the cap member.
25         Preferably the step of locating a cap member over the gap between the two
   concrete slabs includes locating the cap member over at least a portion of the first
   one of the two concrete slabs and over at least a portion of the second one of the of
   the two concrete slabs.
           The features described with respect to one aspect also apply where
30 applicable to all other aspects of the invention. Furthermore, different combinations
   of described features are herein described and claimed even when not expressly
   stated.

                                               -7
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
            In order that the present invention can be more readily understood reference
   will now be made to the accompanying drawings which illustrate a preferred
   embodiment of the invention and wherein:
 5          Figure 1 is a sectioned perspective view of a coverplate assembly according
   to an embodiment of the present invention;
            Figure 2 is a sectioned view of the coverplate assembly of Figure 1;
            Figure 3 is a sectioned view of a coverplate assembly according to another
   embodiment of the present invention;
 0          Figure 4 is a sectioned view of a coverplate assembly according to a further
   embodiment of the present invention; and
            Figure 5 is a sectioned view of the coverplate assembly of Figure 1 in use.
               DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE PREFERRED EMBODIMENT
 5          With reference to Figures 1 and 2, there is shown a coverplate assembly 10
   according to an embodiment of the present invention. The coverplate assembly 10
   cover a gap 12 between two concrete slabs, a first concrete slab 14 and a second
   concrete slab 16.
            The coverplate assembly 10 has a cap member 20, which is located over the
 0 gap 12 between the two concrete slabs 14,16, and over portions of the two concrete
   slabs 14,16. The cap member 20 is made of flexible EPDM rubber to accommodate
   for movement between the concrete slabs 14,16.            The cap member 20 has a
   rectangular cross section.
            The coverplate assembly 10 has a first cover 22. The first cover 22 has a
25 connection portion 24. The connection portion 24 is attached to the first concrete
   slab 14 by concrete screws 26 (only one shown). The first cover 22 has a plurality of
   apertures 28 (only one shown) spaced along its length. The concrete screws 26 are
   located in the apertures 28 and screwed into the first concrete slab 14.
            The first cover 22 has a shoulder portion 30, which covers a part of the cap
30 member 20. The shoulder portion 30 provides protection to the cap member 20 from
   traffic that passes over it. The shoulder portion 30 is supported by the cap member
   20 and can move relative to the cap member 20.
            The first cover 22 has a ramped portion 32 to ease the transition between the
   first concrete slab 14 and the first cover 22. The first cover 22 is made of anodised

                                            -8
   aluminium. The first cover 22 has ridges 34 to provide additional grip. The shoulder
   portion 30 has a ramped portion 36 to ease the transition between the first cover 22
   and the cap member 20.
           The coverplate assembly 10 has a second cover 42. The second cover 42
 5 has a connection portion 44. The connection portion 44 is attached to the second
   concrete slab 16 by concrete screws 46 (only one shown). The second cover 42 has
   a plurality of apertures 48 (only one shown) spaced along its length. The concrete
   screws 46 are located in the apertures 48 and screwed into the second concrete slab
   16.
 0         The second cover 42 has a shoulder portion 50, which covers a part of the
   cap member 20. The shoulder portion 50 provides protection to the cap member 20
   from traffic that passes over it.  The shoulder portion 50 is supported by the cap
   member 20 and can move relative to the cap member 20.
           The second cover 42 has a ramped portion 52 to ease the transition between
 5 the second concrete slab 16 and the second cover 42. The second cover 42 is made
   of anodised aluminium.     The second cover 42 has ridges 54 to provide additional
   grip.   The shoulder portion 50 has a ramped portion 56 to ease the transition
   between the second cover 42 and the cap member 20.
           The cap member 20 is retained by shoulder portions 30 and 50 of the first
 0 cover 22 and the second cover 42. The cap member 20 has a thickness which is
   substantially the same as the distance between the first concrete slab 14 and the
   shoulder portion 30, and the second concrete slab 16 and the shoulder portion 50.
           The coverplate assembly 10 has an elongate seal 58 located between the two
   concrete slabs 14,16. The elongate seal 58 is located below the cap member 20.
25 The elongate seal is glued to the two concrete slabs 14,16. The elongate seal 58
   has grooves 60 to retain glue when being glued to the two concrete slabs 14,16.
           With reference to Figure 3, there is shown a coverplate assembly 110. The
   coverplate assembly 110 is similar to the coverplate assembly 10 shown in Figures 1
   and 2, similar numbering has been used with the addition of a prefix of 1 (for
30 example, cap member 120 is similar to cap member 20 in Figures 1 and 2).
           The main difference between coverplate assembly 110 and coverplate
   assembly 10 in figures 1 and 2 is that the first cover 122 and the second cover 142
   do not have ramped portions (32 and 52 as seen in figures 1 and 2). Additionally,
   the first cover 122 is located in recess 115 of concrete slab 114. The depth of

                                             -9
   recess 115 is substantially the same as the height of the first cover 122. Similarly,
   the second cover 142 is located in recess 117 of concrete slab 116. The depth of
   recess 117 is substantially the same as the height of the second cover 142.
           With reference to Figure 4, there is shown a coverplate assembly 210.
 5 Coverplate assembly 210 is used to cover a gap 212 between a horizontal first
   concrete slab 214 and a vertical second concrete slab 216.
           The coverplate assembly 210 has a cap member 220, which is located over
   the gap 212 between the two concrete slabs 214,216, and over a portion of the first
   concrete slab 214.      The cap member 220 is made of flexible EPDM rubber to
 0 accommodate for movement between the concrete slabs 214,216. The cap member
   220 has a rectangular cross section.
           The coverplate assembly 210 has a first cover 222. The first cover 222 has a
   connection portion 224. The connection portion 224 is attached to the first concrete
   slab 214 by concrete screws 226 (only one shown).          The first cover 222 has a
 5 plurality of apertures 228 (only one shown) spaced along its length. The concrete
   screws 226 are located in the apertures 228 and secured into the first concrete slab
   214.
           The first cover 222 has a shoulder portion 230, which covers a part of the cap
   member 220. The shoulder portion 230 provides protection to the cap member 220.
 0 The shoulder portion 230 is supported by the cap member 220 and can move
   relative to the cap member 220.
           The first cover 222 has a ramped portion 232 to ease the transition between
   the first concrete slab 214 and the first cover 222. The first cover 222 is made of
   anodised aluminium. The first cover 222 has ridges 234 to provide additional grip.
25 The shoulder portion 230 has a ramped portion 236 to ease the transition between
   the first cover 222 and the cap member 220.
           The coverplate assembly 210 has a holding member 240.             The holding
   member 240 is attached to the second concrete slab by concrete bolts 246 (only one
   shown). The holding member 240 has a plurality of apertures 248 (only one shown)
30 spaced along its length. The concrete bolts 246 are located in the apertures 248 and
   secured into the second concrete slab 216. A portion of the holding member 240 is
   located underneath the cap member 220. The holding member 240 is attached to
   the cap member 220. The holding member 240 has an L-shaped cross section. The
   holding member 240 is located above an elongate seal 258.

                                               - 10
            Figure 5 shows the coverplate assembly 10 of figure 1 and 2 in use. As can
   be seen in the figure, the cap member 20 is flexible and accommodates movement
   of the first concrete slab 14 relative to the second concrete slab 16.       The cap
   member 20 is movably held in place by shoulder portions 30 and 50 of the first cover
 5 22 and the second cover 42. The cap member 20 protects the elongate seal 58 from
   traffic passing over the coverplate assembly 10.
                                        ADVANTAGES
           An advantage of the preferred embodiment of the coverplate assembly
 0 includes the shoulder portions being supported by the cap member when a vehicle
   passes over the coverplate assembly.             Another advantage of the preferred
   embodiment of the coverplate assembly includes protecting the elongate seal
   between the concrete slabs. A further advantage of the preferred embodiment of the
   coverplate assembly includes the ability to accommodate horizontal and vertical
 5 movement of the concrete slabs. Another advantage of the preferred embodiment of
   the coverplate assembly includes that the concrete screws resist loosening with
   traffic passing over the coverplate assembly.
                                         VARIATIONS
 0         While the foregoing has been given by way of illustrative example of this
   invention, all such and other modifications and variations thereto as would be
   apparent to persons skilled in the art are deemed to fall within the broad scope and
   ambit of this invention as is herein set forth.
           Throughout the description and claims of this specification the word
25 "comprise" and variations of that word such as "comprises" and "comprising", are not
   intended to exclude other additives, components, integers or steps.

                                                -11
                                             CLAIMS:
   1.      A coverplate assembly for covering a gap between two concrete slabs, the
   coverplate assembly including
 5         a cap member locatable over the gap between the two concrete slabs, the
   cap member is flexible to bend with the relative vertical movement of the two
   concrete slabs; and
           a first cover, the first cover has a connection portion to attach the first cover to
   a first one of the two concrete slabs, and a shoulder portion to cover part of the cap
 0 member.
   2.      A coverplate assembly as claimed in claim 1, further including a second
   cover, the second cover having a connection portion to attach the second cover to a
   second one of the two concrete slabs, and a shoulder portion to cover part of the cap
 5 member.
   3.      A coverplate assembly as claimed in claim 1, further including a holding
   member locatable under at least a portion of the cap member and attachable to a
   second one of the two concrete slabs.
 0
   4.      A method of covering a gap between two concrete slabs, including the steps
   of
           locating a cap member over the gap between the two concrete slabs, the cap
   member is flexible to bend with the relative vertical movement of the two concrete
25 slabs; and
           attaching a first cover to a first one of the two concrete slabs such that a
   shoulder portion of the first cover covers part of the cap member.
   5.      A method as claimed in claim 4, further including the step of attaching a
30 second cover to a second one of the two concrete slabs such that a shoulder portion
   of the second cover covers part of the cap member.

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1
                                 1/5

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2
                                 2/5

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 3
                                 3/5

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 4
                                 4/5

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 5
                                 5/5

