ABSTRACT
In certain aspects, the present invention provides compositions and methods for
increasing red blood cell and/or hemoglobin levels in vertebrates, including rodents and
primates, and particularly in humans.

                        ANTAGONISTS OF ACTIVIN-ACTRIIA AND
                  USES FOR INCREASING RED BLOOD CELL LEVELS
   RELATED APPLICATIONS
 5         The present application is a divisional application of Australian Application
   No. <removed-apn>, which is incorporated in its entirety herein by reference.
           This application claims the benetit of U.S. Provisional Application No.
   61/133,368, filed on June 26, 2008, the specification of which is incorporated by
   reference herein in its entirety.
10 BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
           The mature red blood cell, or erythrocyte, is responsible for oxygen transport in
   the circulatory systems of vertebrates. Red blood cells carry high concentrations of
   hemoglobin, a protein that binds oxygen in the lungs at relatively high partial pressure of
   oxygen (pO2) and delivers oxygen to areas of the body with a relatively low pO2.
15         Mature red blood cells are produced from pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells in
   a process termed erythropoiesis. In post-natal individuals, erythropoiesis occurs
   primarily in the bone marrow and in the red pulp of the spleen. The coordinated action of
   various signaling pathways control the balance of cell proliferation, differentiation,
   survival and death. Under normal conditions, red blood cells are produced at a rate that
20 maintains a constant red cell mass in the body, and production may increase or decrease
   in response to various stimuli, including increased or decreased oxygen tension or tissue
   demand. The process of erythropoiesis begins with the formation of lineage committed
   precursor cells and proceeds through a series of distinct precursor cell types. The final
   stages of erythropoiesis occur as reticulocytes are released into the bloodstream and lose
25 their mitochondria and ribosomes while assuming the morphology of mature red blood
   cell. An elevated level of reticulocytes, or an elevated reticulocyte:erythrocyte ratio, in
   the blood is indicative of increased red blood cell production rates.
           Erythropoietin (Epo) is widely recognized as the most significant positive
   regulator of erythropoiesis in post-natal vertebrates. Epo regulates the compensatory
30 erythropoietic response to reduced tissue oxygen tension (hypoxia) and low red blood cell
   levels or low hemoglobin levels. In humans, elevated Epo levels promote red blood cell
                                                  1

formation by stimulating the generation of erythroid progenitors in the bone marrow and
spleen. In the mouse, Epo enhances erythropoiesis primarily in the spleen.
                                            la

            Various forms of recombinant Epo are used by physicians to increase red blood cell
   levels in a variety of clinical settings, and particularly for the treatment of anemia. Anemia is
   a broadly-defined condition characterized by lower than normal levels of hemoglobin or red
   blood cells in the blood. In some instances, anemia is caused by a primary disorder in the
 5 production or survival of red blood cells. More commonly, anemia is secondary to diseases
   of other systems (Weatherall & Provan (2000) Lancet 355, 1169-1175). Anemia may result
   from a reduced rate of production or increased rate of destruction of red blood cells or by loss
   of red blood cells due to bleeding. Anemia may result from a variety of disorders that
   include, for example, chronic renal failure, myelodysplastic syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis,
10 and bone marrow transplantation.
           Treatment with Epo typically causes a rise in hemoglobins by about 1-3 g/dL in
   healthy humans over a period of weeks. When administered to anemic individuals, this
   treatment regimen often provides substantial increases in hemoglobin and red blood cell
   levels and leads to improvements in quality of life and prolonged survival. Epo is not
15 uniformly effective, and many individuals are refractory to even high doses (Horl et al.
   (2000) Nephrol Dial Transplant 15, 43-50). Over 50% of patients with cancer have an
   inadequate response to Epo, approximately 10% with end-stage renal disease are
   hyporesponsive (Glaspy et al. (1997) J Clin Oncol 15, 1218-1234; Demetri et al. (1998) J
   Clin Oncol 16, 3412-3425), and less than 10% with myelodysplastic syndrome respond
20 favorably (Estey (2003) Curr Opin Hematol 10, 60-67). Several factors, including
   inflammation, iron and vitamin deficiency, inadequate dialysis, aluminum toxicity, and
   hyperparathyroidism may predict a poor therapeutic response, the molecular mechanisms of
   resistance to Epo are as yet unclear.
            Thus, it is an object of the present disclosure to provide alternative compositions and
25 methods for increasing red blood cell levels in patients.
   SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
            In part, the disclosure demonstrates that activin antagonists, as well as ActR lla
   antagonists (collectively, "activin-ActRila antagonists"), can be used to increase red blood
30 cell and hemoglobin levels. In part, the disclosure demonstrates that activin-ActRlla
   antagonists can increase red blood cell and hemoglobin levels and also increase bone density.
   This dual effect has particular advantages in patients that have both anemia and bone loss,
                                                       -2-

   such as many cancer patients (where anemia and bone loss can be a consequence of the tumor
   or a consequence of irradiation or chemotherapy), patients with osteoporosis and patients
   with renal failure. In particular, the disclosure demonstrates that a soluble form of ActRIla
   acts as an inhibitor of activin and, when administered in vivo, increases red blood cell levels.
 5 While soluble ActRIIa may affect red blood cell levels through a mechanism other than
   activin antagonism, the disclosure nonetheless demonstrates that desirable therapeutic agents
   may be selected on the basis of activin antagonism or ActRIla antagonism or both. Such
   agents are referred to collectively as activin-ActRila antagonists. Therefore, in certain
   embodiments, the disclosure provides methods for using activin-ActRIla antagonists,
10 including, for example, activin-binding ActRIla polypeptides, anti-activin antibodies, anti
   ActRIla antibodies, activin- or ActRila-targeted small molecules and aptamers, and nucleic
   acids that decrease expression of activin or ActRIIa, to increase red blood cell and
   hemoglobin levels in patients and to treat disorders associated with low red blood cell or
   hemoglobin levels in patients in need thereof, or to have combined effects on bone and red
15 blood cells. As described in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 11/603,485, and in published
   patent applications WO 2008/100384 and WO/2007/062188, incorporated by reference
   herein, activin-ActRIla antagonists can be used to promote bone growth and increase bone
   density. As described herein, the effects of activin-ActRIla antagonists on red blood cell
   levels are more rapid and occur at lower doses than the effects of such antagonists on bone.
20 Thus, in certain embodiments, the disclosure provides methods for using an activin-ActRIla
   antagonist to increase red blood cell or hemoglobin levels without causing a significant
   increase in bone density. For example, a method may cause less than 3%, 5%, 10% or 15%
   increase in bone density. This selective effect may be achieved by using, for example, lower
   doses of activin-ActRIla antagonist, less frequent doses, or by using an activin-ActRIla
25 antagonist with a shorter serum half-life at doses and frequencies calculated to provide a
   lower serum concentration. Additionally, given that activin-ActRila antagonists promote
   both bone growth and increases in red blood cell levels, the disclosure provides methods for
   promoting bone growth and increasing red blood cell levels, particularly in patients with
   disorders that are characterized by anemia and loss of bone, such as inflammatory bowel
30 diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple myeloma, cancer- and cancer treatment- related bone
   loss and many forms of renal failure, including end stage renal disease.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides polypeptides comprising a soluble, activin
   binding ActRIla polypeptide that binds to activin. ActRIla polypeptides may be formulated
                                                     -3 -

   as a pharmaceutical preparation comprising the activin-binding ActRIla polypeptide and a
   pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. The activin-binding ActRlla polypeptide may bind to
   activin with a K, less than I micromolar or less than 100, 10 or I nanomolar. Optionally, the
   activin-binding ActRlla polypeptide selectively binds activin versus GDF I and/or GDF8,
 5 and optionally with a Kn that is at least 10-fold, 20-fold or 50-fold lower with respect to
   activin than with respect to GDFI I and/or GDF8. While not wishing to be bound to a
   particular mechanism of action, it is expected that this degree of selectivity for activin
   inhibition over GDFII/GDF8 inhibition in ActRIla-Fc accounts for effects on bone or
   erythropoiesis without a consistently measurable effect on muscle. In many embodiments, an
10 ActRIla polypeptide will be selected for causing less than 15%, less than 10% or less than
   5% increase in muscle at doses that achieve desirable effects on red blood cell levels. In
   other embodiments, the effect on muscle is acceptable and need not be selected against. The
   composition may be at least 95% pure, with respect to other polypeptide components, as
   assessed by size exclusion chromatography, and optionally, the composition is at least 98%
15 pure. An activin-binding ActRIIa polypeptide for use in such a preparation may be any of
   those disclosed herein, such as a polypeptide having (i.e. comprising) an amino acid sequence
   selected from SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, 7, 12 or 13, or having (i.e. comprising) an amino acid
   sequence that is at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97% or 99% identical to an amino acid
   sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, 7, 12 or 13. An activin-binding ActRIla
20 polypeptide may include a functional fragment of a natural ActRIla polypeptide, such as one
   comprising at least 10, 20 or 30 amino acids of a sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 1-3 or
   a sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2, lacking the C-terminal 10 to 15 amino acids (the "tail").
            A soluble, activin-binding ActRilJa polypeptide may include one or more alterations in
   the amino acid sequence (e.g., in the ligand-binding domain) relative to a naturally occurring
25 ActRila polypeptide. Examples of altered ActRIla polypeptides are provided in WO
   2006/012627, pp. 59-60 and pp. 55-58, respectively, which is incorporated by reference
   herein, and throughout U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 12/012,652, incorporated by
   reference herein. The alteration in the amino acid sequence may, for example, alter
   glycosylation of the polypeptide when produced in a mammalian, insect or other eukaryotic
30 cell or alter proteolytic cleavage of the polypeptide relative to the naturally occurring ActRlla
   polypeptide.
                                                    -4-

           An activin-binding ActRIla polypeptide may be a fusion protein that has, as one
   domain, an ActRila polypeptide, (e.g., a ligand-binding portion of an ActRIla) and one or
   more additional domains that provide a desirable property, such as improved
   pharmacokinetics, easier purification, targeting to particular tissues, etc. For example, a
 5 domain of a fusion protein may enhance one or more of in vivo stability, in vivo half life,
   uptake/administration, tissue localization or distribution, formation of protein complexes,
   multimerization of the fusion protein, and/or purification. An activin-binding ActRIla fusion
   protein may include an immunoglobulin Fc domain (wild-type or mutant) or a serum albumin
   or other polypeptide portion that provides desirable properties such as improved
10 pharmacokinetics, improved solubility or improved stability. Inapreferred embodiment, an
   ActRila-Fc fusion comprises a relatively unstructured linker positioned between the Fc
   domain and the extracellular ActRlla domain. This unstructured linker may be an artificial
   sequence of 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 amino acids or a length of between 5 and 15, 20, 30, 50 or more
   amino acids that are relatively free of secondary structure, or a mixture of both. A linker may
15 be rich in glycine and proline residues and may, for example, contain a single sequence of
   threonine/serine and glycines or repeating sequences of threonine/serine and glycines (e.g.,
   TG 4 (SEQ ID NO: 15) or SG 4 (SEQ ID NO: 16) singlets or repeats). A fusion protein may
   include a purification subsequence, such as an epitope tag, a FLAG tag, a polyhistidine
   sequence, and a GST fusion. Optionally, a soluble ActRIla polypeptide includes one or more
20 modified amino acid residues selected from: a glycosylated amino acid, a PEGylated amino
   acid, a farnesylated amino acid, an acetylated amino acid, a biotinylated amino acid, an
   amino acid conjugated to a lipid moiety, and an amino acid conjugated to an organic
   derivatizing agent. A pharmaceutical preparation may also include one or more additional
   compounds such as a compound that is used to treat a bone disorder or a compound that is
25 used to treat anemia. Preferably, a pharmaceutical preparation is substantially pyrogen flee.
   In general, it is preferable that an ActRila protein be expressed in a mammalian cell line that
   mediates suitably natural glycosylation of the ActRIla protein so as to diminish the likelihood
   of an unfavorable immune response in a patient. Human and CHO cell lines have been used
   successfully, and it is expected that oiher common mammalian expression systems will be
30 useful.
            As described herein, ActRlia proteins designated ActRlla-Fc have desirable
   properties, including selective binding to activin versus GDFS and/or GDF I1, high affinity
   ligand binding and serum half life greater than two weeks in animal models and in human
                                                     -5 -

   patients. In certain embodiments the invention provides ActRTIa-Fc polypeptides and
   pharmaceutical preparations comprising such polypeptides and a pharmaceutically acceptable
   excipient.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides nucleic acids encoding a soluble activin
 5 binding ActRIla polypeptide. An isolated polynucleotide may comprise a coding sequence
   for a soluble, activin-binding ActRIla polypeptide, such as described above. For example, an
   isolated nucleic acid may include a sequence coding for an extracellular domain (e.g., ligand
   binding domain) of an ActRila and a sequence that would code for part or all of the
   transmembrane domain and/or the cytoplasmic domain of an ActRila, but for a stop codon
10 positioned within the transmembrane domain or the cytoplasmic domain, or positioned
   between the extracellular domain and the transmembrane domain or cytoplasmic domain.
   For example, an isolated polynucleotide may comprise a full-length ActRIta polynucleotide
   sequence such as SEQ ID NO: 4 or a partially truncated version of ActRIla, such as a nucleic
   acid comprising the nucleic acid sequence of SEQ ID NO:5, which corresponds to the
15 extracellular domain of ActRIla. An isolated polynucleotide may further comprise a
   transcription termination codon at least six hundred nucleotides before the 3-terminus or
   otherwise positioned such that translation of the polynucleotide gives rise to an extracellular
   domain optionally fused to a truncated portion of a full-length ActRila. A preferred nucleic
   acid sequence for ActRIIa is SEQ 1D NO:14. Nucleic acids disclosed herein may be operably
20 linked to a promoter for expression, and the disclosure provides cells transformed with such
   recombinant polynucleotides. Preferably the cell is a mammalian cell such as a CHO cell.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides methods for making a soluble, activin
   binding ActRIla polypeptide. Such a method may include expressing any of the nucleic acids
   (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 4, 5 or 14) disclosed herein in a suitable cell, such as a Chinese hamster
25 ovary (CHO) cell or human cell. Such a method may comprise: a) culturing a cell under
   conditions suitable for expression of the soluble ActRIla polypeptide, wherein said cell is
   transformed with a soluble ActRila expression construct; and b) recovering the soluble
   ActRIla polypeptide so expressed. Soluble ActRIla polypeptides may be -ecovered as crude,
   partially purified or highly purified fractions. Purification may be achieved by a series of
30 purification steps, including, for example, one, two or thi-ee or more of the following, in any
   order: protein A chromatography, anion exchange chromatography (e.g., Q sepharose),
   hydrophobic interaction chromatography (e.g., phenylsepharose), size exclusion
                                                    -6-

   chromatography, and cation exchange chromatography. Soluble ActRIIa polypeptides may
   be formulated in liquid or solid (e.g., lyophilized) forms.
           In certain aspects, an activin-ActRila antagonist disclosed herein may be used in a
   method for promoting red blood cell production or increasing red blood cell levels in a
 5 subject. In certain embodiments, the disclosure provides methods for treating a disorder
   associated with low red blood cell counts or low hemoglobin levels (e.g., an anemia), or to
   promote red blood cell production, in patients in need thereof. A method may comprise
   administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of activin-ActRIla antagonist.
   In certain embodiments, the disclosure provides methods for increasing red blood cell levels
10 and bone formation in a patient in need thereof. A method may comprise administering to a
   subject in need thereof an effective amount of activin-ActRIla antagonist. In certain
   embodiments the disclosure demonstrates that, in rodents, activin-ActRIla antagonists
   increase erythroid precursor cell levels primarily through effects on the spleen. Accordingly,
   the disclosure provides methods for increasing the release of red blood cells from the spleen,
15 the method comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of an activin-ActRIla
   antagonist. In certain aspects, the disclosure provides uses of activin-ActRila antagonists for
   making a medicament for the treatment of a disorder or condition as described herein.
           In certain aspects, the disclosure provides a method for identifying an agent that
   stimulates production of red blood cells. The method comprises: a) identifying a test agent
20 that binds to activin or a ligand-binding domain of an ActRIla polypeptide; and b) evaluating
   the effect of the agent on the levels of red blood cells, hemoglobin, and/or red blood cell
   precursor levels (e.g., reticulocyte levels).
25 BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
           Figure I shows the purification of ActRlla-hFec expressed in CHO cells. The protein
   purifies as a single, well-defined peak as visualized by sizing column (left panel) and
   Coomassie stained SDS-PAGE (right panel) (left lane: molecular weight standards; right
   lane: ActRIla-hFc).
30         Figure 2 shows the bindingof ActRila-hiFc to activin and GDF-l 1, as measured by
   BiaCoreTM assay.
                                                     -7-

           Figure 3 shows the effects of ActRlla-hFc on red blood cell counts in female non
   human primates. Female cynomolgus monkeys (four groups of five monkeys each) were
   treated with placebo or 1mg/kg, 10 mg/kg or 30 mg/kg of ActRIla-hFc on day 0, day 7, day
    14 and day 21. Figure 3A shows red blood cell (RBC) counts. Figure 3B shows hemoglobin
 5 levels. Statistical significance is relative to baseline for each treatment group. At day 57,
   two monkeys remained in each group.
           Figure 4 shows the effects of ActRIla-hFc on red blood cell counts in male non
   human primates. Male cynomolgus monkeys (four groups of five monkeys each) were
   treated with placebo or 1mg/kg, 10 mg/kg or 30 mg/kg of ActRila-hFc on day 0, day 7, day
10  14andday2l. Figure 4A shows red blood cell (RBC) counts. Figure 4B shows hemoglobin
   levels. Statistical significance is relative to baseline for each treatment group. At day 57,
   two monkeys remained in each group.
           Figure 5 shows the effects of ActRIla-hFc on reticulocyte counts in female non
   human primates. Cynomolgus monkeys (four groups of five monkeys each) were treated
15 with placebo or I mg/kg, 10 mg/kg or 30 mg/kg of ActRIIa-hFc on day 0, day 7, day 14 and
   day 21. Figure 5A shows absolute reticulocyte counts. Figure 5B shows the percentage of
   reticulocytes relative to RBCs. Statistical significance is relative to baseline for each group.
   At day 57, two monkeys remained in each group.
           Figure 6 shows the effects of ActRIla-hFec on reticulocyte counts in female non
20 human primates. Cynomolgus monkeys (four groups of five monkeys each) were treated
   with placebo or I mg/kg, 10 mg/kg or 30 mg/kg of ActRila-hFec on day 0, day 7, day 14 and
   day 21. Figure 6A shows absolute reticulocyte counts. Figure 6B shows the percentage of
   reticulocytes relative to RBCs. Statistical significance is relative to baseline for each group.
   At day 57, two monkeys remained in each group.
25         Figure 7 shows results from the human clinical trial described in Example 5, where
   the area-under-curve (AUC) and administered dose of ActRIla-hFec have a linear correlation,
   regardless of whether ActRlla-hFc was administered intravenously (IV) or subcutaneously
   (SC).
           Figure 8 shows a comparison of serum levels of ActRlla-hFc in patients administered
30 IV or SC.
           Figure 9 shows bone alkaline phosphatase (BAP) levels in response to different dose
   levels of AcrRIla-hFc. BAP is a marker for anabolic bone growth.
                                                      - 8-

           Figure 10 depicts the median change from baseline of hematocrit levels from the
   human clinical trial described in Example 5. ActRIla-hFc was administered intravenously
   (IV) at the indicated dosage.
           Figure II depicts the median change from baseline of hemoglobin levels from the
 5 human clinical trial described in Example 5. ActRIla-hFc was administered intravenously
   (IV) at the indicated dosage.
           Figure 12 depicts the median change from baseline of RBC (red blood cell) count
   from the human clinical trial described in Example 5. ActRlla-hFe was administered
   intravenously (IV) at the indicated dosage.
10         Figure 13 depicts the median change from baseline of reticulocyte count from the
   human clinical trial described in Example 5. ActRIla-hFc was administered intravenously
   (IV) at the indicated dosage.
           Figure 14 shows an alignment of human ActRIIA and ActRIIB with the residues that
   are deduced herein, based on composite analysis of multiple ActRIIB and ActRIJA crystal
15 structures to directly contact ligand (the ligand binding pocket) indicated with boxes.
           Figure 15 shows the effect of ActRIIA-mFe on hematocrit in a mouse model of
   chemotherapy-induced anemia. Data are means ± SEM. *, P < 0.05 vs. vehicle at same time
   point. A single dose of ActRIlIA-mFc before chemotherapy prevented the decline in
   hematocrit level otherwise observed after administration of the chemotherapeutic paclitaxel.
20         Figure 16 shows the dose-dependent effect of ActRIIA-mFe on hematocrit in a mouse
    model of chemotherapy-induced anemia. Data are means + SEM. **, P <0.01; ***, P <
   0.001 vs. vehicle at same time point. Two weeks after paclitaxel administration, ActRiIA
    mFc treatment increased hematocrit level as a function of dose number.
            Figure 17 shows the effect of ActRIIA-mFc on hematocrit in a partially
25  nephrectomized (NEPHX) mouse model of chronic kidney disease. Data are means + SEM.
    *, P<0.05 vs. vehicle at same time point ActRIIA-mFc treatment prevented the decline in
    hematocrit level otherwise observed at 4 weeks and produced a beneficial trend in hematocrit
    at 8 weeks.
                                                     -9-

   DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION
   I.      Overview
           The transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily contains a variety of
   growth factors that share common sequence elements and structural motifs. These proteins
 5 are known to exert biological effects on a large variety of cell types in both vertebrates and
   invertebrates. Members of the superfamily perform important functions during embryonic
   development in pattern formation and tissue specification and can influence a variety of
   differentiation processes, including adipogenesis, myogenesis, chondrogenesis,
   cardiogenesis, hematopoiesis, neurogenesis, and epithelial cell differentiation. The family is
10 divided into two general branches: the BMP/GDF and the TGF-beta/Activin/BMP10
   branches, whose members have diverse, often complementary effects. By manipulating the
   activity of a member of the TGF-beta family, it is often possible to cause significant
   physiological changes in an organism. For example, the Piedmontese and Belgian Blue cattle
   breeds carry a loss-of-function mutation in the GDF8 (also called myostatin) gene that causes
15 a marked increase in muscle mass. Grobet et al., Nat Genet. 1997, 17(1):71-4. Furthermore,
   in humans, inactive alleles of GDF8 are associated with increased muscle mass and,
   reportedly, exceptional strength. Schuelke et al., N Engl 3 Med 2004, 350:2682-8.
           Activins are dimeric polypeptide growth factors that belong to the TGF-beta
   superfamily. There are three principal activin forms (A, B, and AB) that are
20 homo/heterodimers of two closely related P subunits (PAPA, 38p, and IAPB, respectively).
   The human genome also encodes an activin C and an activin E, which are primarily
   expressed in the liver, and heterodimeric forms containing Pc or pE are also known. In the
   TGF-beta superfamily, activins are unique and multifunctional factors that can stimulate
   hormone production in ovarian and placental cells, support neuronal cell survival, influence
25 cell-cycle progi-ess positively or negatively depending on cell type, and induce mesodermal
   differentiation at least in amphibian embryos (DePaolo et al., 1991, Proc Soc Ep Biol Med.
    198:500-512; Dyson et al., 1997, Curr Biol. 7:81-84; Woodruff, 1998, Biochiem Phanracol.
   55:953-963). Moreover, erythroid differentiation factor (EDF) isolated from the stimulated
   human monocytic leukemic cells was found to be identical to activin A (Murata et al, 1988,
30 PNAS, 85:2434). It has been suggested that activin A promotes eiythropoiesis in the bone
   marrow. In several tissues, activin signaling is antagonized by its related heterodimer,
   inhibin. For example, during the release of follicle-stimulating honnone (FSH) from the
                                                   -10-

   pituitary, activin promotes FSH secretion and synthesis, while inhibin prevents FSH secretion
   and synthesis. Other proteins that may regulate activin bioactivity and/or bind to activin
   include follistatin (FS), follistatin-related protein (FSRP) and a2 -macroglobulin.
           TGF-D signals are mediated by heteromeric complexes of type I and type 1Iserine/
 5 threonine kinase receptors, which phosphorylate and activate downstream Smad proteins
   upon ligand stimulation (Massagud, 2000, Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 1:169-178). These type I
   and type 11receptors are transmembrane proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular
   domain with cysteine-rich region, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with
   predicted serine/threonine specificity. Type I receptors are essential for signaling; and type I1
10 receptors are required for binding ligands and for expression of type I receptors. Type I and
   11 activin receptors form a stable complex after ligand binding, resulting in phosphorylation
   of type I receptors by type Il receptors.
           Two related type 11 receptors (ActRIl), ActRila and ActRIIb, have been identified as
   thetype 11receptors for activins (Mathews and Vale, 1991, Cell 65:973-982; Attisano et aL,
15  1992, Cell 68: 97-108). Besides activins, ActRIla and ActRJIb can biochemically interact
   with several other TGF-p family proteins, including BMP7, Nodal, GDF8, and GDF I
   (Yamashita et al., 1995, . Cell Biol. 130:217-226; Lee and McPherron, 2001, Proc. Natl.
   Acad. Sci. 98:9306-931 1; Yeo and Whitman, 2001, Mol. Cell 7: 949-957; Oh et al., 2002,
   Genes Dev. 16:2749-54). ALK4 is the primary type I receptor for activins, particularly for
20 activin A, and ALK-7 may serve as a receptor for activins as well, particularly for activin B.
             As demonstrated herein, a soluble ActRIla polypeptide (sActRIla), which shows
   substantial preference in binding to activin A as opposed to other TGF-beta family members,
   such as GDF8 or GDF 11,is effective to increase red blood cell levels in vivo. While not
   wishing to be bound to any particular mechanism, it is expected that the effect of sActRlla is
25 caused primarily by an activin antagonist effect, given the very strong activin binding
   (picomolar dissociation constant) exhibited by the particular sActRIla construct used in these
   studies. Regardless of mechanism, it is apparent from this disclosure that ActRlla-activin
   antagonists increase red blood cell levels in rodents, monkeys and humans. It should be
   noted that hematopoiesis is a complex process, regulated by a variety of factors, including
30 erythropoietin, G-CSF and iron homeostasis. The terms "increase red blood cell levels" and
   "promote red blood cell fonnation" refer to clinically observable metrics, such as hematocrit,
                                                      - II -

   red blood cell counts and hemoglobin measurements, and are intended to be neutral as to the
   mechanism by which such changes occur.
           The data reported herein with respect to non-human primates are reproducible in
   mice, rats and humans as well, and therefore, this disclosure provides methods for using
 5 ActRIla polypeptides and other activin-ActRIla antagonists to promote red blood cell
   production and increase red blood cell levels in mammals ranging from rodents to humans.
   Activin-ActRila antagonists include, for example, activin-binding soluble ActRIla
   polypeptides, antibodies that bind to activin (particularly the activin A or B subunits, also
   referred to as PA or pB) and disrupt ActRlla binding, antibodies that bind to ActRIla and
10 disrupt activin binding, non-antibody proteins selected for activin or ActRlla binding (see
   e.g., WO/2002/088171, WO/2006/055689, and WO/2002/032925 for examples of such
   proteins and methods for design and selection of same), randomized peptides selected for
   activin or ActRila binding, often affixed to an Fe domain. Two different proteins (or other
   moieties) with activin or ActRila binding activity, especially activin binders that block the
15 type I (e.g., a soluble type I activin receptor) and type 11 (e.g., a soluble type II activin
   receptor) binding sites, respectively, may be linked together to create a bifunctional binding
   molecule. Nucleic acid aplamers, small molecules and other agents that inhibit the activin
   ActRila signaling axis are included as activin-ActRila antagonists. Various proteins have
   activin-ActRIla antagonist activity, including inhibin (i.e., inhibin alpha subunit), although
20 inhibin does not universally antagonize activin in all tissues, follistatin (e.g., follistatin-288
   and follistatin-315), FSRP, FLRG, activin C, alpha(2)-macroglobulin, and an M I 08A
   (methionine to alanine change at position 108) mutant activin A. Generally, alternative forms
   of activin, particularly those with alterations in the type I receptor binding domain can bind to
   type 11receptors and fail to form an active teary complex, thus acting as antagonists.
25 Additionally, nucleic acids, such as antisense molecules, siRNAs or ribozymes that inhibit
   activin A, B, C or E, or, particularly, ActRIla expression, can be used as activin-ActRlla
   antagonists. The activin-ActRl]a antagonist to be used may exhibit selectivity for inhibiting
   activin-mediated signaling versus other members of the TGF-beta family, and particularly
    with respect to GDF8 and GDFI 1.
30          The tens used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art,
    within the context of this invention and in the specific context where each term is used.
   Certain terms are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification, to provide additional
                                                     - 12-

   guidance to the practitioner in describing the compositions and methods of the invention and
   how to make and use them. The scope or meaning of any use of a term will be apparent from
   the specific context in which the term is used.
            "About" and "approximately" shall generally mean an acceptable degree of error for
 5 the quantity measured given the nature or precision of the measurements. Typically,
   exemplary degrees of error are within 20 percent (%), preferably within 10%, and more
   preferably within 5% of a given value or range of values.
            Alternatively, and particularly in biological systems, the terms "about" and
   "approximately" may mean values that are within an order of magnitude, preferably within 5
10 fold and more preferably within 2-fold of a given value. Numerical quantities given herein
   are approximate unless stated otherwise, meaning that the term "about" or "approximately"
   can be inferred when not expressly stated.
            The methods of the invention may include steps of comparing sequences to each
   other, including wild-type sequence to one or more mutants (sequence variants). Such
15 comparisons typically comprise alignments of polymer sequences, e.g., using sequence
   alignment programs and/or algorithms that are well known in the art (for example, BLAST,
   FASTA and MEGALIGN, to name a few). The skilled artisan can readily appreciate that, in
   such alignments, where a mutation contains a residue insertion or deletion, the sequence
   alignment will introduce a "gap" (typically represented by a dash, or "A") in the polymer
20 sequence not containing the inserted or deleted residue.
            "Homologous," in all its grammatical forms and spelling variations, refers to the
   relationship between two proteins that possess a "common evolutionary origin," including
   proteins from superfamilies in the same species of organism, as well as homologous proteins
   from different species of organism. Such proteins (and their encoding nucleic acids) have
25 sequence homology, as reflected by their sequence similarity, whether in terms of percent
    identity or by the presence of specific residues or motifs and conserved positions.
            The term "sequence similarity," in all its grammatical forms, refers to the degree of
    identity or correspondence between nucleic acid or amino acid sequences that may or may
   not share a common evolutionary origin.
                                                     - 13 -

           However, in common usage and in the instant application, the term "homologous,"
   when modified with an adverb such as "highly," may refer to sequence similarity and may or
   may not relate to a common evolutionary origin.
 5 2.      ActRIla PolypUetides
           In certain aspects, the present invention relates to ActRIla polypeptides. As used
   herein, the term "ActRIla" refers to a family of activin receptor type Ila (ActRila) proteins
   from any species and variants derived from such ActRlla proteins by mutagenesis or other
   modification. Reference to ActRIla herein is understood to be a reference to any one of the
10 currently identified forms. Members of the ActRIla family are generally transmembrane
   proteins, composed of a ligand-binding extracellular domain with a cysteine-rich region, a
   transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain with predicted serine/threonine kinase
   activity.
           The term "ActRIla polypeptide" includes polypeptides comprising any naturally
15 occurring polypeptide of an ActRIla family member as well as any variants thereof
   (including mutants, fragments, fusions, and peptidomimetic forms) that retain a useful
   activity. See, for example, WO/2006/012627. For example, ActRfla polypeptides include
   polypeptides derived from the sequence of any known ActRIla having a sequence at least
   about 80% identical to the sequence of an ActRIla polypeptide, and optionally at least 85%,
20 90%, 95%, 97%, 99% or greater identity. For example, an ActRIla-polypeptide of the
   invention may bind to and inhibit the function of an ActRila protein and/or activin. An
   ActRlla polypeptide may be selected for activity in promoting red blood cell formation in
   vivo. Examples of ActRIla polypeptides include human ActRIla precursor polypeptide (SEQ
   ID NO: 1) and soluble human ActRlla polypeptides (e.g., SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, 7 and 12).
25         The human ActRlla precursor protein sequence is as follows:
           MGAAAKLAFAVFLISCSSGAILGRSETQECLFFNANWEKDRTNQTGVEP
           CYGDKDKRRHCFATWKNISGSIEIVKQGCWLDDINCYDRTDlCVEKKDSP
           EVYFCCCEGNMCNEKFSYFPEaMVTQPTSNPVTPKPPYYN ILLYSLVPL
           MLIAGIVICAFWVYRHHKMAYPPVLVPTQDPGPPPPSPLLGLKPLQLLE
30         VKARGREGCVWKAQLLNEYVAVKIFPIQDKQSWQNEYEVYSLPGMKHEN
            ILQFIGAEKRGTSVDVDLWLITAFHEKGSLSDFLKANVVSWNELCHIAE
                                                    - 14-

            TMARGLAYLHEDIPGLKDGHKPAISHRDIKSKNVLLKNNLTACIADFGL
            ALKFEAGKSAGDTHGQVGTRRYMAPEVLEGAINFQRDAFLRIDMYAMGL
            VLWELASRCTAADGPVDEYMLPFEEEIGQHPSLEDMQEVVVHKKKRPVL
            RDYWQKHAGMAMLCETIEECWDHDAEARLSAGCVGERITQMQRLTNIIT
 5          TEDIVTVVTMVTNVDFPPKESSL                (SEQIDNO:I)
            The signal peptide is single underlined; the extracellular domain is in bold and the
   potential N-inked glycosylation sites are double underlined.
            The human ActRlla soluble (extracellular), processed polypeptide sequence is as
   follows:
10          ILGRSETQECLFFNANWEKDRTNQTGVEPCYGDKDKRRHCFATWKNISG
            SIEIVKQGCWLDDINCYDRTDCVEKKDSPEVYFCCCEGNMCNEKFSYFP
            EMEVTQPTSNPVTPKPP             (SEQIDNO:2)
            The C-terminal "tail" of the extracellular domain is underlined. The sequence with
   the "tail" deleted (a Al 5 sequence) is as follows:
15          ILGRSETQECLFFNANWEKDRTNQTGVEPCYGDKDKRRHCFATWKNISG
            SIEIVKQGCWLDDINCYDRTDCVEKKDSPEVYFCCCEGNMCNEKFSYFP
            EM    (SEQ ID NO:3)
            The nucleic acid sequence encoding human ActRlla precursor protein is as follows
   (nucleotides 164-1705 of Genbank entry NM_001616):
20          ATGGGAGCTGCTGCAAAGTTGGCGTTTGCCGTCTTTCTTATCTCCTGTT
            CTTCAGGTGCTATACTTGGTAGATCAGAAACTCAGGAGTGTCTTTTCTT
            TAATGCTAATTGGGAAAAAGACAGAACCAATCAAACTGGTGTTGAACCG
            TGT TATGGTGACAAAGATAAACGGCGGCAT TGT TTTGCTACCTGGAAGA
            ATATT TCTGGT TCCAT TGAAATAGTGAAACAAGGTTGTTGGCTGGATGA
25          TATCAACTGCTATGACAGGACTGATTGTGTAGAAAAAAAAGACAGCCCT
            GAAGTATAT TTTTGTTGCTGTGAGGGCAATATGTGTAATGAAAAGT T TT
            CTTATTTTCCAGAGATGGAAGTCACACACCCCACTTCAAATCCAGTTAC
            ACCTAAGCCACCCTATTACAACATCCTGCTCTATTCCTTGGTGCCACTT
            ATGTTAATTGCGGGGATTGTCATTTGTGCATTTTGGGTGTACAGGCATC
30          ACAAGATGGCCTACCCTCCTGTACTTGTTCCAACTCAAGACCCAGGACC
            ACCCCCACCTTCTCCATTACTAGGGTTGAAACCACTGCAGTTATTAGAA
            GTGAAAGCAAGGGGAAGATT TGGTTGTGTCTGGAAAGCCCAGT TGCTTA
                                                     -15-

           AC GAATATGTGGCTGTCAAAATATT TCCAATACAGGACAAACAGTCATG
           GCAAAATGAATACGAAGTCTACAGTTTGCCTGGAATGAAGCATGAGAAC
           ATATTACAGTTCATTGGTGCAGAAAAACGAGGCACCAGTGTTGATGTGG
           ATCTTTGGCTGATCACAGCATTTCATGAAAAGGGTTCACTATCAGACTT
 5         TCTTAAGGCTAATGTGGTCTCTTGGAATGAACTGTGTCATATTGCAGAA
           ACCATGGCTAGAGGATTGGCATATTTACATGAGGATATACCTGGCCTAA
           AAGATGGCCACAAACCTGCCATATCTCACAGGGACATCAAAAGTAAAAA
           TGTGCTGTTGAAAAACAACCTGACAGCTTGCAT TGCTGAC T                       CTGGGTTG
           GCCTTAAAAT TTGAGGCTGGCAAGTCTGCAGGCGATACCCATGGACAGG
10         TTGGTACCCGGAGGTACATGGCTCCAGAGGTATTAGAGGGTGCTATAAA
           CTTCCAAAGGGATGCATTTTTGAGGATAGATATGTA TGCCATGGGATTA
           GTCCTATGGGAACTGGCTTCTCGCTGTACTGCTGCAGATGGACCTGTAG
           ATGAATACATGT TGCCATTTGAGGAGGAAATTGGCCAGCATCCATCTCT
           TGAAGACATGCAGGAAGTTGTTGTGCATAAAAAAAAGAGGCCTGTT TTA
15         AGAGATTATTGGCAGAAACATGCTGGAATGGCAATGCTCTGTGAAACCA
           T TGAAGAATGTTGGGATCACGACGCAGAAGCCAGGT TATCAGCTGGATG
           TGTAGGTGAAAGAATTACCCAGATGCAGAGACTAACAAATATTATTACC
           ACAGAGGACATTGTAACAGTGGTCACAATGGTGACAAATGT TGACTT TC
           CTCCCAAAGAATCTAGTCTATGA (SEQ ID NO: 4)
20         The nucleic acid sequence encoding a human ActRIa soluble (extracellular)
   polypeptide is as follows:
           ATACTTGGTAGATCAGAAACTCAGGAGTGTCTTTTCT TTAATGCTAATT
           GGGAAAAAGACAGAACCAATCAAACTGGTGT TGAACCGTGTTATGGTGA
           CAAAGA TAAACGGCGGCATTT TT TGCTACCTGGAAGAATAT TTCTGGT
25         TCCATTGAAATAGTGAAACAAGGTTGTTGGCTGGATGATATCAACTGCT
           ATGACAGGACTGAT TGTGTAGAAAAAAAAGACAGCCCTGAAGTATATTT
           T TGTTGCTGTGAGGGCAATATGTGTAATGAAAAGT                   T TCTTATT TTCCA
           GAGATGGAAGTCACACAGCCCACTTCAAATCCAGTTACACCTAAGCCAC
           CC (SEQ ID NO: 5)
30         In a specific embodiment, the invention relates to soluble ActRlla polypeptides. As
   described herein, the term "soluble ActRIba polypeptide" generally refers to polypeptides
   comprising an extracellular domain of an ActRila protein. The term "soluble ActRila
                                                  -16-

   polypeptide," as used herein, includes any naturally occurring extracellular domain of an
   ActRita protein as well as any variants thereof (including mutants, fragments and
   peptidomimetic forms). An activin-binding ActRIla polypeptide is one that retains the ability
   to bind to activin, including, for example, activin AA, AR, BB, or forms that include a C or E
 5 subunit. Optionally, an activin-binding ActRIla polypeptide will bind to activin AA with a
   dissociation constant of I nM or less. The extracellular domain of an ActRIla protein binds
   to activin and is generally soluble in physiological conditions, and thus can be termed a
   soluble, activin-binding ActRila polypeptide. Examples of soluble, activin-binding ActRila
   polypeptides include the soluble polypeptides illustrated in SEQ ID NOs: 2, 3, 7, 12 and 13.
10 SEQ IDNO:7 is referred to as ActRIIa-hFc, and is described further in the Examples. Other
   examples of soluble, activin-binding ActRIla polypeptides comprise a signal sequence in
   addition to the extracellular domain of an ActRIla protein, for example, the honey bee
   mellitin leader sequence (SEQ ID NO: 8), the tissue plaminogen activator (TPA) leader (SEQ
   ID NO: 9) or the native ActRIIa leader (SEQ ID NO: 10). The ActRIIa-hFc polypeptide
15 illustrated in SEQ ID NO:13 uses a TPA leader.
            A general formula for an active ActRIla variant protein is one that comprises amino
   acids 12-82 of SEQ ID No. 2, respectively, but optionally beginning at a position ranging
   from 1-5 or 3-5 and ending at a position ranging from 110-116 or I 10-115, respectively, and
   comprising no more than 1, 2, 5, 10 or 15 conservative amino acid changes in the ligand
20 binding pocket, and zero, one or more non-conservative alterations at positions 40, 53, 55, 74,
   79 and/or 82 in the ligand binding pocket. Such a protein may comprise an amino acid
   sequence that retains greater than 80%, 90%, 95% or 99% sequence identity to the sequence
   of amino acids 29-109 of SEQ ID NO: 2.
            Functionally active fragments of ActRIla polypeptides can be obtained by screening
25 polypeptides recombinantly produced from the corresponding fragment of the nucleic acid
   encoding an ActRIla polypeptide. In addition, fragments can be chemically synthesized
   using techniques known in the art such as conventional Merrifield solid phase f-Moc or t-Boc
   chemistry. The fragments can be produced (tecombinantly or by chemical synthesis) and
   tested to identify those peptidyl fragments that can function as antagonists (inhibitors) of
30 ActRIla protein or signaling mediated by activin.
            Functionally active variants of ActRila polypeptides can be obtained by screening
   libraries of modified polypeptides recombinantly produced from the corresponding
                                                   - 17-

   mutagenized nucleic acids encoding an ActRila polypeptide. The variants can be produced
   and tested to identify those that can function as antagonists (inhibitors) of ActRIla protein or
   signaling mediated by activin. In certain embodiments, a functional variant of the ActRlla
   polypeptides comprises an amino acid sequence that is at least 75% identical to an amino acid
 5 sequence selected from SEQ 1D NOs: 2 or 3. In certain cases, the functional variant has an
   amino acid sequence at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98%, 99% or 100% identical to an
   amino acid sequence selected from SEQ ID NOs: 2 or 3.
            Functional variants may be generated by modifying the structure of an ActRIla
   polypeptide for such purposes as enhancing therapeutic efficacy, or stability (e.g., ex vivo
10 shelf life and resistance to proteolytic degradation in vivo). Such modified ActRila
   polypeptides when selected to retain activin binding, are considered functional equivalents of
   the naturally-occurring ActRila polypeptides. Modified ActRila polypeptides can also be
   produced, for instance, by amino acid substitution, deletion, or addition. For instance, it is
   reasonable to expect that an isolated replacement of a leucine with an isoleucine or valine, an
15 aspartate with a glutamate, a threonine with a shrine, or a similar replacement of an amino
   acid with a structurally related amino acid (e.g., conservative mutations) will not have a
   major effect on the biological activity of the resulting molecule. Conservative replacements
   are those that take place within a family of amino acids that are related in their side chains.
   Whether a change in the amino acid sequence of an ActRila polypeptide results in a
20 functional homolog can be readily determined by assessing the ability of the variant ActRlila
   polypeptide to produce a response in cells in a fashion similar to the wild-type ActRIla
   polypeptide.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates specific mutations of the
   ActRila polypeptides so as to alter the glycosylation of the polypeptide. Such mutations may
25 be selected so as to introduce or eliminate one or more glycosylation sites, such as O-linked
   or N-linked glycosylation sites. Asparagine-linked glycosylation recognition sites generally
   comprise a tripeptide sequence, asparagine-X-threonine or asparagine-X-serine (whei "X" is
   any amino acid) which is specifically recognized by appropriate cellular glycosylation
   enzymes. The alteration may also be made by the add ition of, or substitution by, one or more
30 serine or threonine residues to the sequence of the wild-type ActRlla polypeptide (for 0
    linked glycosylation sites). A variety of amino acid substitutions or deletions at one or both
   of the first or third amino acid positions of a glycosylation recognition site (and/or amino acid
                                                     -18-

   deletion at the second position) results in non-glycosylation at the modified tripeptide
   sequence. Another means of increasing the number of carbohydrate moieties on an ActRIla
   polypeptide is by chemical or enzymatic coupling of glycosides to the ActRlla polypeptide.
   Depending on the coupling mode used, the sugar(s) may be attached to (a) arginine and
 5 histidine; (b) free carboxyl groups; (c) free sulfhydryl groups such as those of cysteine; (d)
   free hydroxyl groups such as those of shrine, threonine, or hydroxyproline; (e) aromatic
   residues such as those of phenylalanine, tyrosine, or tryptophan; or (f) the amide group of
   glutamine. Removal of one or more carbohydrate moieties present on an ActRila
   polypeptide may be accomplished chemically and/or enzymatically. Chemical
10 deglycosylation may involve, for example, exposure of the ActRlla polypeptide to the
   compound trifluoromethanesulfonic acid, or an equivalent compound. This treatment results
   in the cleavage of most or all sugars except the linking sugar (N-acetylglucosamine or N
   acetylgalactosamine), while leaving the amino acid sequence intact.      Enzymatic cleavage of
   carbohydrate moieties on ActRlla polypeptides can be achieved by the use of a variety of
15 endo- and exo-glycosidases as described by Thotakura et al. (1987) Meth. Enzymol. 138:350.
   The sequence of an ActRIla polypeptide may be adjusted, as appropriate, depending on the
   type of expression system used, as mammalian, yeast, insect and plant cells may all introduce
   differing glycosylation patterns that can be affected by the amino acid sequence of the
   peptide. In general, ActRila proteins for use in humans may be expressed in a mammalian
20 cell line that provides proper glycosylation, such as HEK293 or CHO cell lines, although
   other mammalian expression cell lines are expected to be useful as well. Other non
   mammalian cell lines may be used (e.g., yeast, E. coli, insect cells), and in some cases, such
   cell lines may be engineered to include enzymes that confer mammalian-type glycosylation
   patterns on the expressed proteins.
25          This disclosure further contemplates a method of generating mutants, particularly sets
   of combinatorial mutants of an ActRIla polypeptide, as well as truncation mutants; pools of
   combinatorial mutants are especially useful for identifying functional variant sequences. The
   purpose of screening such combinatorial libraries may be to generate, for example, ActRIla
   polypeptide variants which bind to activin or other ligands. A variety of screening assays are
30 provided below, and such assays may be used to evaluate variants. For example, an ActRIla
   polypeptide variant may be screened for ability to bind to an ActRila ligand, to prevent
   binding of an ActRlla ligand to an ActRlla polypeptide or to interfere with signaling caused
   by an AciRlla ligand.
                                                    -19-

           The activity of an ActRila polypeptide or its variants may also be tested in a cell
   based or in vivo assay. For example, the effect of an ActRIla polypeptide variant on the
   expression of genes involved in hernatopoiesis may be assessed. This may, as needed, be
   performed in the presence of one or more recombinant ActRIla ligand proteins (e.g., activin),
 5 and cells may be transfected so as to produce an ActRIIa polypeptide and/or variants thereof,
   and optionally, an ActRIla ligand. Likewise, an ActRila polypeptide may be administered to
   a mouse or other animal, and one or more blood measurements, such as an RBC count,
   hemoglobin, or reticulocyte count may be assessed.
           Combinatorially-derived variants can be generated which have a selective or generally
10 increased potency relative to a naturally occurring ActRila polypeptide. Likewise,
   mutagenesis can give rise to variants which have intracellular half-lives dramatically different
   than the corresponding a wild-type ActRlla polypeptide. For example, the altered protein can
   be rendered either more stable or less stable to proteolytic degradation or other cellular
   processes which result in destruction of, or otherwise inactivation of a native ActRlia
15 polypeptide. Such variants, and the genes which encode them, can be utilized to alter
   ActRila polypeptide levels by modulating the half-life of the ActRlia polypeptides. For
   instance, a short half-life can give rise to more transient biological effects and, when part of
   an inducible expression system, can allow tighter control of recombinant ActRila polypeptide
   levels within the cell. In an Fe fusion protein, mutations may be made in the linker (if any)
20 and/or the Fe portion to alter the half-life of the protein.
           A combinatorial library may be produced by way of a degenerate library of genes
   encoding a library of polypeptides which each include at least a portion of potential ActRIla
   polypeptide sequences. For instance, a mixture of synthetic oligonucleotides can be
   enzymatically ligated into gene sequences such that the degenerate set of potential ActRIla
25 polypeptide nucleotide sequences are expressible as individual polypeptides, or alternatively,
   as a set of larger fusion proteins (e.g., for phage display).
           There are many ways by which the library of potential homologs can be generated
   from a degenerate oligonucleotide sequence. Chemical synthesis of a degenerate gene
   sequence can be carried out in an automatic DNA synthesizer, and the synthetic genes can
30 then be ligated into an appropriate vector for expression. The synthesis of degenerate
   oligonucleotides is well known in the art (see for example, Narang, SA (1983) Tetrahedron
   39:3; hakura et aL, (1981) Recombinant DNA, Proc. 3rd Cleveland Sympos.
                                                     - 20 -

   Macromolecules, ed. AG Walton, Amsterdam: Elsevier pp273-289; Itakura et al., (1984)
   Annu. Rev. Biochem. 53:323; Itakuraet al., (1984) Science 198:1056; Ike etal., (1983)
   Nucleic Acid Res. 11:477). Such techniques have been employed in the directed evolution of
   other proteins (see, for example, Scott et al., (1990) Science 249:386-390; Roberts et al,
 5 (1992) PNAS USA 89:2429-2433; Devlin et al., (1990) Science 249: 404-406; Cwirla et al.,
   (1990) PNAS USA 87: 6378-6382; as well as U.S. Patent Nos: 5,223,409, 5,198,346, and
   5,096,815).
             Alternatively, other forms of mutagenesis can be utilized to generate a combinatorial
   library. For example, ActRIla polypeptide variants can be generated and isolated from a
10 library by screening using, for example, alanine scanning mutagenesis and the like (Ruf et al.,
   (1994) Biochemistry 33:1565-1572; Wang et al., (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269:3095-3099;
   Balint et al., (1993) Gene 137:109-118; Grodberg et al., (1993) Eur. J. Biochem. 218:597
   601; Nagashima et al., (1993) J. Biol. Chem. 268:2888-2892; Lowman et al., (1991)
   Biochemistry 30:10832-10838; and Cunningham et al., (1989) Science 244:1081-1085), by
15 linker scanning mutagenesis (Gustin et al., (1993) Virology 193:653-660; Brown et al.,
   (1992) Mo]. Cell Biol. 12:2644-2652; McKnight et al., (1982) Science 232:316); by
   saturation mutagenesis (Meyers et al., (1986) Science 232:613); by PCR mutagenesis (Leung
   et al., (1989) Method Cell Mol Biol 1:11-19); or by random mutagenesis, including chemical
   mutagenesis, etc. (Miller et al., (1992) A Short Course in Bacterial Genetics, CSHL Press,
20 Cold Spring Harbor, NY; and Greener et al., (1994) Strategies in Mol Biol 7:32-34). Linker
   scanning mutagenesis, particularly in a combinatorial setting, is an attractive method for
   identifying truncated (bioactive) forms of ActRlla polypeptides.
             A wide range of techniques are known in the art for screening gene products of
   combinatorial libraries made by point mutations and truncations, and, for that matter, for
25 screening cDNA libraries for gene products having a certain property. Such techniques will
   be generally adaptable for rapid screening of the gene libraries generated by the
   combinatorial mutagenesis of ActRlla polypeptides. The most widely used techniques for
   screening large gene libraries typically comprises cloning the gene library into replicable
   expression vectors, transforming appropriate cells with the resulting library of vectors, and
30 expressing the combinatorial genes under conditions in which detection of a desired activity
    facilitates relatively easy isolation of the vector encoding the gene whose product was
                                                      -21 -

   detected. Preferred assays include activin binding assays and activin-mediated cell signaling
   assays.
           In certain embodiments, the ActRila polypeptides of the invention may further
   comprise post-translational modifications in addition to any that are naturally present in the
 5 ActRIIa polypeptides. Such modifications include, but are not limited to, acetylation,
   carboxylation, glycosylation, phosphorylation, lipidation, and acylation. As a result, the
   modified ActRIla polypeptides may contain non-amino acid elements, such as polyethylene
   glycols, lipids, poly- or mono-saccharide, and phosphates. Effects of such non-amino acid
   elements on the functionality of an ActRIla polypeptide may be tested as described herein for
10 other ActRIla polypeptide variants. When an ActRIla polypeptide is produced in cells by
   cleaving a nascent form of the ActRIla polypeptide, post-translational processing may also be
   important for correct folding and/or function of the protein. Different cells (such as CHO,
   HeLa, MDCK, 293, W138, NIH-3T3 or HEK293) have specific cellular machinery and
   characteristic mechanisms for such post-translational activities and may be chosen to ensure
15 the correct modification and processing of the ActRIla polypeptides.
           In certain aspects, functional variants or modified forms of the ActRIla polypeptides
   include fusion proteins having at least a portion of the AciRlia polypeptides and one or more
   fusion domains. Well known examples of such fusion domains include, but are not limited
   to, polyhistidine, Glu-Glu, glutathione S transferase (GST), thioredoxin, protein A, protein G,
20 an immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region (Fc), maltose binding protein (MBP), or
   human serum albumin. A fusion domain may be selected so as to confer a desired property.
   For example, some fusion domains are particularly useful for isolation of the fusion proteins
   by affinity chromatography. For the purpose of affinity purification, relevant matrices for
   affinity chromatography, such as glutathione-, amylase-, and nickel- or cobalt- conjugated
25 resins are used. Many of such matrices are available in "kit" form, such as the Pharmacia
   GST purification system and the QlAexpressTM system (Qiagen) useful with (H [S) fusion
   partners. As another example, a fusion domain may be selected so as to facilitate detection of
   the ActRIla polypeptides. Examples of such detection domains include the various
   fluorescent proteins (e.g., GFP) as well as "epilope tags," which are usually short peptide
30 sequences for which a specific antibody is available. Well known epitope tags for which
   specific monoclonal antibodies are readily available include FLAG, influenza virus
   haemagglutinin (HA), and c-myc tags. In some cases, the fusion domains have a protease
                                                    - 22 -

   cleavage site, such as for Factor Xa or Thrombin, which allows the relevant protease to
   partially digest the fusion proteins and thereby liberate the recombinant proteins therefrom.
   The liberated proteins can then be isolated from the fusion domain by subsequent
   chromatographic separation. In certain preferred embodiments, an ActRIla polypeptide is
 5 fused with a domain that stabilizes the ActRIla polypeptide in vivo (a "stabilizer" domain).
   By "stabilizing" is meant anything that increases serum half life, regardless of whether this is
   because of decreased destruction, decreased clearance by the kidney, or other
   pharmacokinetic effect. Fusions with the Fe portion of an immunoglobulin are known to
   confer desirable pharmacokinetic properties on a wide range of proteins. Constant domains
10 from an immunoglobulin, particularly an IgG heavy chain, may also be used as stabilizing
   domains. Likewise, fusions to human serum albumin can confer desirable properties. Other
   types of fusion domains that may be selected include multimerizing (e.g., dimerizing,
   tetramerizing) domains and functional domains (that confer an additional biological function,
   such as further stimulation of muscle growth).
15         As a specific example, the present invention provides a fusion protein comprising a
   soluble extracellular domain of ActRIla fused to an Fe domain. An example of an IgG1 Fc
   domain is shown below (SEQ ID NO: 6).
   THTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVD(A)VSHEDPEVKFNWYVDG
   VEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCK(A)VSNKALPVPIEKTISKAK
20 GQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKNQVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGQPENNYKTTPPVLDSDG
   PFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQQGNVFSCSVMHEALHN(A)HYTQKSLSLSPGK*
           Optionally, the Fc domain has one or more mutations at residues such as Asp-265,
   lysine 322, and Asn-434. In certain cases, the mutant Fe domain having one or more of these
   mutations (e.g., Asp-265 mutation) has reduced ability of binding to the Fey receptor relative
25 to a wildtype Fc domain. In other cases, the mutant Fc domain having one or more of these
   mutations (e.g., Asn-434 mutation) has increased ability of binding to the MHC class
   related Fc-receptor (FcRN) relative to a wildtype Fe domain. Fe domains from IgG2, IgG3
   and IgG 4 may also be used.
            It is understood that different elements of the fusion proteins may be arranged in any
30 manner that is consistent with the desired functionality. For example, an ActRIla polypeptide
   may be placed C-terminal to a heterologous domain, or, alternatively, a heterologous domain
   may be placed C-terminal to an ActRila polypeptide. The ActRila polypeptide domain and
                                                     - 23 -

   the heterologous domain need not be adjacent in a fusion protein, and additional domains or
   amino acid sequences may be included C- or N-terminal to either domain or between the
   domains.
           In certain embodiments, the ActRlIaa polypeptides of the present invention contain
 5 one or more modifications that are capable of stabilizing the ActRila polypeptides. For
   example, such modifications enhance the in vitro half life of the ActRIla polypeptides,
   enhance circulatory half life of the ActRila polypeptides or reducing proteolytic degradation
   of the ActRIla polypeptides. Such stabilizing modifications include, but are not limited to,
   fusion proteins (including, for example, fusion proteins comprising an ActRIla polypeptide
10 and a stabilizer domain), modifications of a glycosylation site (including, for example,
   addition of a glycosylation site to an ActRila polypeptide), and modifications of carbohydrate
   moiety (including, for example, removal of carbohydrate moieties from an ActRIla
   polypeptide). As used herein, the term "stabilizer domain" not only refers to a fusion domain
   (e.g., Fc) as in the case of fusion proteins, but also includes nonproteinaceous modifications
15 such as a carbohydrate moiety, or nonproteinaceous moiety, such as polyethylene glycol.
           In certain embodiments, the present invention makes available isolated and/or purified
   forms of the ActRIla polypeptides, which are isolated from, or otherwise substantially free of,
   other proteins. ActRIla polypeptides will generally be produced by expression from
   recombinant nucleic acids.
20
   3.      Nucleic Acids Encodin2 ActRIIa Polyp tides
            In certain aspects, the invention provides isolated and/or recombinant nucleic acids
   encoding any of the ActRlla polypeptides (e.g., soluble ActRlia polypeptides), including
   fragments, functional variants and fusion proteins disclosed herein. For example, SEQ ID
25 NO: 4 encodes the naturally occurring human ActRila precursor polypeptide, while SEQ ID
   NO: 5 encodes the processed extracellular domain of ActRila. The subject nucleic acids may
   be single-stranded or double stranded. Such nucleic acids may be DNA or RNA molecules.
   These nucleic acids may be used, for example, in methods for making ActRIla polypeptides
   or as direct therapeutic agents (e.g., in a gene therapy approach).
30          In certain aspects, the subject nucleic acids encoding ActRlla polypeptides are further
    understood to include nucleic acids that are variants of SEQ ID NO: 4 or 5.
                                                     - 24 -

           In certain embodiments, the invention provides isolated or recombinant nucleic acid
   sequences that are at least 80%, 85%, 90%, 95%, 97%, 98 %, 99% or 100% identical to SEQ
   ID NOs: 4 or 5. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that nucleic acid sequences
   complementary to SEQ ID NOs: 4 or 5, and variants of SEQ ID NOs: 4 or 5 are also within
 5 the scope of this invention. In further embodiments, the nucleic acid sequences of the
   invention can be isolated, recombinant, and/or fused with a heterologous nucleotide
   sequence, or in a DNA library.
           In other embodiments, nucleic acids of the invention also include nucleotide
   sequences, and the ActRIla polypeptides encoded by such nucleic acids, that hybridize under
10 highly stringent conditions to the nucleotide sequence designated in SEQ ID NOs: 4 or 5,
   complement sequence of SEQ ID NOs: 4 or 5 or fragments thereof. As discussed above, one
   of ordinary skill in the art will understand readily that appropriate stringency conditions
   which promote DNA hybridization can be varied. One of ordinary skill in the art will
   understand readily that appropriate stringency conditions which promote DNA hybridization
15 can be varied. For example, one could perform the hybridization at 6.0 x sodium
   chloride/sodium citrate (SSC) at about 45 *C, followed by a wash of 2-0 x SSC at 50 0 C. For
   example, the salt concentration in the wash step can be selected from a low stringency of
   about 2.0 x SSC at 50 *Cto a high stringency of about 0.2 x SSC at 50 *C. In addition, the
   temperature in the wash step can be increased from low stringency conditions at room
20 temperature, about 22 *C, to high stringency conditions at about 65 *C. Both temperature
   and salt may be varied, or temperature or salt concentration may be held constant while the
   other variable is changed. In one embodiment, the invention provides nucleic acids which
   hybridize under low stringency conditions of 6 x SSC at room temperature followed by a
   wash at 2 x SSC at room temperature.
25         Isolated nucleic acids which differ from the nucleic acids as set forth in SEQ ID NOs:
   4 or 5 due to degeneracy in the genetic code are also within the scope of the invention. For
   example, a number of amino acids are designated by more than one triplet. Codons that
   specify the same amino acid, or synonyms (for example, CAU and CAC are synonyms for
   histidine) may result in "silent" mutations which do not affect the amino acid sequence of the
30 protein. However, it is expected that DNA sequence polymorphisms that do lead to changes
   in the amino acid sequences of the subject proteins will exist among mammalian cells. One
   skilled in the art will appreciate that these variations in one or more nucleotides (up to about
                                                     - 25 -

   3-5% of the nucleotides) of the nucleic acids encoding a particular protein may exist among
   individuals of a given species due to natural allelic variation. Any and all such nucleotide
   variations and resulting amino acid polymorphisms are within the scope of this invention.
           In certain embodiments, the recombinant nucleic acids of the invention may be
 5 operably linked to one or more regulatory nucleotide sequences in an expression construct.
   Regulatory nucleotide sequences will generally be appropriate to the host cell used for
   expression. Numerous types of appropriate expression vectors and suitable regulatory
   sequences are known in the art for a variety of host cells. Typically, said one or more
   regulatory nucleotide sequences may include, but are not limited to, promoter sequences,
10 leader or signal sequences, ribosomal binding sites, transcriptional start and termination
   sequences, translational start and termination sequences, and enhancer or activator sequences.
   Constitutive or inducible promoters as known in the art are contemplated by the invention.
   The promoters may be either naturally occurring promoters, or hybrid promoters that
   combine elements of more than one promoter. An expression construct may be present in a
15 cell on an episome, such as a plasmid, or the expression construct may be inserted in a
   chromosome. In a preferred embodiment, the expression vector contains a selectable marker
   gene to allow the selection of transformed host cells. Selectable marker genes are well
   known in the art and will vary with the host cell used.
            In certain aspects of the invention, the subject nucleic acid is provided in an
20 expression vector comprising a nucleotide sequence encoding an ActRIla polypeptide and
   operably linked to at least one regulatory sequence. Regulatory sequences are ar-recognized
   and are selected to direct expression of the ActRIla polypeptide. Accordingly, the term
    regulatory sequence includes promoters, enhancers, and other expression control elements.
    Exemplary regulatory sequences are described in Goeddel; Gene Exp-ession Technology:
25 Methods in Enzymology, Academic Press, San Diego, CA (1990). For instance, any of a wide
    variety of expression control sequences that control the expression of a DNA sequence when
   operatively linked to it may be used in these vectors to express DNA sequences encoding an
    ActRila polypeptide. Such useful expression control sequences, include, for example, the
    early and late promoters of SV40, tet promoter, adenovirus or cytomegalovirus immediate
30  early promoter, RSV promoters, the lac system, the trp system, the TAC or TRC system, T7
    promoter whose expression is directed by T7 RNA polymerase, the major operator and
    promoter regions of phage lambda, the control regions for fd coat protein, the promoter for
                                                     - 26 -

   3-phosphoglycerate kinase or other glycolytic enzymes, the promoters of acid phosphatase,
   e.g., Pho5, the promoters of the yeast a-mating factors, the polyhedron promoter of the
   baculovirus system and other sequences known to control the expression of genes of
   prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells or their viruses, and various combinations thereof It should
 5 be understood that the design of the expression vector may depend on such factors as the
   choice of the host cell to be transformed and/or the type of protein desired to be expressed.
   Moreover, the vector's copy number, the ability to control that copy number and the
   expression of any other protein encoded by the vector, such as antibiotic markers, should also
   be considered.
10          A recombinant nucleic acid of the invention can be produced by ligating the cloned
   gene, or a portion thereof, into a vector suitable for expression in either prokaryotic cells,
   eukaryotic cells (yeast, avian, insect or mammalian), or both. Expression vehicles for
   production of a recombinant AciRIla polypeptide include plasmids and other vectors. For
   instance, suitable vectors include plasmids of the types: pBR322-derived plasmids, pEMBL
15 derived plasmids, pEX-derived plasmids, pBTac-derived plasmids and pUC-derived plasmids
   for expression in prokaryotic cells, such as E. coli.
            Some mammalian expression vectors contain both prokaryotic sequences to facilitate
   the propagation of the vector in bacteria, and one or more eukaryotic transcription units that
   are expressed in eukaryotic cells. The pcDNAI/amp, pcDNAI/neo, pRc/CMV, pSV2gpt,
20 pSV2neo, pSV2-dhfr, pTk2, pRSVneo, pMSG, pSVT7, pko-neo and pHyg derived vectors
   are examples of mammalian expression vectors suitable for transfection of eukaryotic cells.
   Some of these vectors are modified with sequences from bacterial plasmids, such as pBR322,
   to facilitate replication and drug resistance selection in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells.
   Alternatively, derivatives of viruses such as the bovine papilloma virus (BPV-1), or Epstein
25 Barr virus (pHEBo, pREP-derived and p205) can be used for transient expression of proteins
   in eukaryotic cells. Examples of other viral (including retroviral) expression systems can be
   found below in the description of gene therapy delivery systems. The various methods
   employed in the preparation of the plasmids and in transformation of host organisms are well
   known in the at. For other suitable expression systems for both prokaryotic and eukaiyotic
30 cells, as well as general recombinant procedures, see Molecular Cloning A
   Laborao-y Manual, 3rd Ed., ed. by Sambrook, Fritsch and Maniatis (Cold Spring Harbor
   Laboratory Press, 2001). In some instances, it may be desirable to express the recombinant
                                                     - 27 -

   polypeptides by the use of a baculovirus expression system. Examples of such baculovirus
   expression systems include pVL-derived vectors (such as pVLI 392, pVLI 393 and pVL941),
   pAcUW-derived vectors (such as pAcUW 1), and pBlueBac-derived vectors (such as the B-gal
   containing pBlueBac I1).
 5          In a preferred embodiment, a vector will be designed for production of the subject
   ActRila polypeptides in CHO cells, such as a Pcmv-Script vector (Stratagene, La Jolla,
   Calif.), pcDNA4 vectors (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.) and pCI-neo vectors (Promega,
   Madison, Wise.). As will be apparent, the subject gene constructs can be used to cause
   expression of the subject ActRila polypeptides in cells propagated in culture, e.g., to produce
10 proteins, including fusion proteins or variant proteins, for purification.
            This disclosure also pertains to a host cell transfected with a recombinant gene
   including a coding sequence (e.g., SEQ ID NO: 4 or 5) for one or more of the subject ActRIla
   polypeptides. The host cell may be any prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell For example, an
   ActRIla polypeptide of the invention may be expressed in bacterial cells such as E. coli,
15 insect cells (e.g., using a baculovirus expression system), yeast, or mammalian cells. Other
   suitable host cells are known to those skilled in the art.
            Accordingly, the present invention further pertains to methods of producing the
   subject ActRila polypeptides. For example, a host cell transfected with an expression vector
   encoding an ActRIla polypeptide can be cultured under appropriate conditions to allow
20 expression of the ActRIla polypeptide to occur. The ActRila polypeptide may be secreted
   and isolated from a mixture of cells and medium containing the ActRIla polypeptide.
   Alternatively, the AcIRlia polypeptide may be retained cytoplasmically or in a membrane
   fraction and the cells harvested, lysed and the protein isolated. A cell culture includes host
   cells, media and other byproducts. Suitable media for cell culture are well known in the art.
25 The subject ActRlla polypeptides can be isolated from cell culture medium, host cells, or
   both, using techniques known in the art for purifying proteins, including ion-exchange
   chromatography, gel filtration chromatography, ultrafiltration, electrophoresis,
    ninunoaffinity purification with antibodies specific for particular epitopes of the ActRIla
   polypeptides and affinity purification with an agent that binds to a domain fused to the
30 ActRila polypeptide (e.g., a protein A column may be used to purify an AcRlla-Fc fusion).
   In a preferred embodiment, the ActRIla polypeptide is a fusion protein containing a domain
   which fbcilitates its purification. In a preferred embodiment, purification is achieved by a
                                                     - 28  -

   series of column chromatography steps, including, for example, three or more of the
   following, in any order: protein A chromatography, Q sepharose chromatography,
   phenylsepharose chromatography, size exclusion chromatography, and cation exchange
   chromatography. The purification could be completed with viral filtration and buffer
 5 exchange. As demonstrated herein, ActRlla-hFc protein was purified to a purity of >98% as
   determined by size exclusion chromatography and >95% as determined by SDS PAGE. This
   level of purity was sufficient to achieve desirable results in mice, rats, non-human primates
   and humans.
           In another embodiment, a fusion gene coding for a purification leader sequence, such
10 as a poly-(His)/enterokinase cleavage site sequence at the N-terminus of the desired portion
   of the recombinant ActRIla polypeptide, can allow purification of the expressed fusion
   protein by affinity chromatography using a Niz4 metal resin. The purification leader
   sequence can then be subsequently removed by treatment with enterokinase to provide the
   purified ActRila polypeptide (e.g., see Hochuli et al., (1987) J Chromatography411:177;
15 and Janknecht et al., PNAS USA 88:8972).
           Techniques for making fusion genes are well known. Essentially, thejoining of
   various DNA fragments coding for different polypeptide sequences is performed in
   accordance with conventional techniques, employing blunt-ended or stagger-ended termini
   for ligation, restriction enzyme digestion to provide for appropriate termini, filling-in of
20 cohesive ends as appropriate, alkaline phosphatase treatment to avoid undesirable joining,
   and enzymatic ligation. In another embodiment, the fusion gene can be synthesized by
   conventional techniques including automated DNA synthesizers. Alternatively, PCR
   amplification of gene fragments can be carried out using anchor primers which give rise to
   complementary overhangs between two consecutive gene fragments which can subsequently
25 be annealed to generate a chimeric gene sequence (see, for example, Current Protocols in
   Molecular Biology. eds. Ausubel et al., John Wiley & Sons: 1992).
   4.      Alternative Activin and ActRila Antationists
           The data presented herein demonstrates that antagonists of activin-ActRlla signaling
30 can be used to increase red blood cell or hemoglobin levels. Although soluble ActRila
   polypeptides, and particularly ActRlla-Fe, are preferred antagonists, and although such
   antagonists may affect red blood cell levels through a mechanism other than activin
                                                   - 29 -

   antagonism (e.g., activin inhibition may be an indicator of the tendency of an agent to inhibit
   the activities of a spectrum of molecules, including, perhaps, other members of the TGF-beta
   superfamily, and such collective inhibition may lead to the desired effect on hematopoiesis),
   other types of activin-ActRila antagonists are expected to be useful, including anti-activin
 5 (e.g., activin PA, Pm, pc and PE) antibodies, anti-ActRIla antibodies, antisense, RNAi or
   ribozyme nucleic acids that inhibit the production of ActRIla, and other inhibitors of activin
   or ActRlla, particularly those that disrupt activin-ActRIla binding.
            An antibody that is specifically reactive with an ActRlla polypeptide (e.g., a soluble
   ActRila polypeptide) and which either binds competitively to ligand with the ActRIla
10 polypeptide or otherwise inhibits ActRIla-mediated signaling may be used as an antagonist of
   ActRlla polypeptide activities. Likewise, an antibody that is specifically reactive with an
   activin OA, Ps, Pc or PE polypeptide, or any heterodimer thereof, and which disrupts ActRila
   binding may be used as an antagonist.
            By using immunogens derived from an ActRIla polypeptide or an activin polypeptide,
15 anti-protein/anti-peptide antisera or monoclonal antibodies can be made by standard protocols
   (see, for example, Antibodies: A Laboratory Manual ed. by Harlow and Lane (Cold Spring
   Harbor Press: 1988)). A mammal, such as a mouse, a hamster or rabbit can be immunized
   with an immunogenic form of the activin or ActRlla polypeptide, an antigenic fragment
   which is capable of eliciting an antibody response, or a fusion protein. Techniques for
20 conferring immunogenicity on a protein or peptide include conjugation to carriers or other
   techniques well known in the art. An immunogenic portion of an ActRlla or activin
   polypeptide can be administered in the presence of adjuvant. The progress of immunization
   can be monitored by detection of antibody titers in plasma or serum. Standard ELISA or
   other immunoassays can be used with the immunogen as antigen to assess the levels of
25 antibodies.
            Following immunization of an animal with an antigenic preparation of an activin or
   AcIRIla polypeptide, antisera can be obtained and, if desired, polyclonal antibodies can be
    isolated from the serum. To produce monoclonal antibodies, antibody-producing cells
   (lymphocytes) can be harvested from an immunized animal and fused by standard somatic
30 cell fusion procedures with immortalizing cells such as myeloma cells to yield hybridoma
   cells. Such techniques are well known in the art, and include, for example, the hybridoma
   technique (originally developed by Kohler and Milstein, (1975) Nature, 256: 495-497), the
                                                    - 30 -

   human B cell hybridoma technique (Kozbar et al., (1983) Immunology Today, 4: 72), and the
   EBV-hybridoma technique to produce human monoclonal antibodies (Cole et al., (1985)
   Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy, Alan R. Liss, Inc. pp. 77-96). Hybridoma cells
   can be screened immunochemically for production of antibodies specifically reactive with an
 S activin or ActRIla polypeptide and monoclonal antibodies isolated from a culture comprising
   such hybridoma cells.
           The term "antibody" as used herein is intended to include whole antibodies, e.g., of
   any isotype (IgG, IgA, IgM, IgE, etc), and includes fragments or domains of
   immunoglobulins which are reactive with a selected antigen. Antibodies can be fragmented
10 using conventional techniques and the fragments screened for utility and/or interaction with a
   specific epitope of interest. Thus, the term includes segments of proteolytically-cleaved or
   recombinantly-prepared portions of an antibody molecule that are capable of selectively
   reacting with a certain protein. Non-limiting examples of such proteolytic and/or recombinant
   fragments include Fab, F(ab')2, Fab' , Fv, and single chain antibodies (scFv) containing a
15 V[L] and/or V[H] domain joined by a peptide linker. The scFv's may be covalently or non
   covalently linked to form antibodies having two or more binding sites. The term antibody
   also includes polyclonal, monoclonal, or other purified preparations of antibodies and
   recombinant antibodies. The term "recombinant antibody", means an antibody, or antigen
   binding domain of an immunoglobulin, expressed from a nucleic acid that has been
20 constructed using the techniques of molecular biology, such as a humanized antibody or a
   fully human antibody developed from a single chain antibody. Single domain and single
   chain antibodies are also included within the term "recombinant antibody".
           In certain embodiments, an antibody of the invention is a monoclonal antibody, and in
   certain embodiments, the invention makes available methods for generating novel antibodies.
25 For example, a method for generating a monoclonal antibody that binds specifically to an
   ActRIla polypeptide or activin polypeptide may comprise administering to a mouse an
   amount of an immunogenic composition comprising the antigen polypeptide effective to
   stimulate a detectable immune response, obtaining antibody-producing cells (e.g., cells from
   the spleen) from the mouse and fusing the antibody-producing cells with myeloma cells to
30 obtain antibody-producing hybridomas, and testing the antibody-producing hybridomas to
   identify a hybridoma that produces a monocolonal antibody that binds specifically to the
   antigen. Once obtained, a hybridoma can be propagated in a cell culture, optionally in] culture
                                                   -31 -

   conditions where the hybridoma-derived cells produce the monoclonal antibody that binds
   specifically to the antigen. The monoclonal antibody may be purified from the cell culture.
           The adjective "specifically reactive with" as used in reference to an antibody is
   intended to mean, as is generally understood in the art, that the antibody is sufficiently
 5 selective between the antigen of interest (e.g., an activin or ActRila polypeptide) and other
   antigens that are not of interest that the antibody is useful for, at minimum, detecting the
   presence of the antigen of interest in a particular type of biological sample. In certain
   methods employing the antibody, such as therapeutic applications, a higher degree of
   specificity in binding may be desirable. Monoclonal antibodies generally have a greater
10 tendency (as compared to polyclonal antibodies) to discriminate effectively between the
   desired antigens and cross-reacting polypeptides. One characteristic that influences the
   specificity of an antibody:antigen interaction is the affinity of the antibody for the antigen.
   Although the desired specificity may be reached with a range of different affinities, generally
   preferred antibodies will have an affinity (a dissociation constant) of about 10-', 10', 10-, 10~
15 9 M or less.
           In addition, the techniques used to screen antibodies in order to identify a desirable
   antibody may influence the properties of the antibody obtained. For example, if an antibody
   is to be used for binding an antigen in solution, it may be desirable to test solution binding. A
   variety of different techniques are available for testing interaction between antibodies and
20 antigens to identify particularly desirable antibodies. Such techniques include ELISAs,
   surface plasmon resonance binding assays (e.g., the BiacoreTm binding assay, Biacore AB,
   Uppsala, Sweden), sandwich assays (e.g., the paramagnetic bead system of IGEN
   International, Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland), western blots, immunoprecipitation assays, and
   immunohistochemistry.
25          Examples of categories of nucleic acid compounds that are activin or ActRlla
   antagonists include antisense nucleic acids, RNAi constructs and catalytic nucleic acid
   constructs. A nucleic acid compound may be single or double stranded. A double stranded
   compound may also include regions of overhang or non-complementarity, where one or the
   other of the strands is single stranded. A single stranded compound may include regions of
30 self-complementarity, meaning that the compound forns a so-called "hairpin" or "stem-loop'
   structure, with a region of double helical structure. A nucleic acid compound may comprise a
   nucleotide sequence that is complementary to a region consisting of no more than 1000, no
                                                     - 32 -

   more than 500, no more than 250, no more than 100, or no more than 50, 35, 25, 22, 20, 18 or
   15 nucleotides of the full-length ActRIla nucleic acid sequence or activin p,     Pa, Pc, or PE
   nucleic acid sequence. The region of complementarity will preferably be at least 8
   nucleotides, and optionally about 18 to 35 nucleotides. A region of complementarity may fall
 5 within an intron, a coding sequence or a noncoding sequence of the target transcript, such as
   the coding sequence portion. Generally, a nucleic acid compound will have a length of about
   8 to about 500 nucleotides or base pairs in length, and optionally the length will be about 14
   to about 50 nucleotides. A nucleic acid may be a DNA (particularly for use as an antisense),
   RNA or RNA:DNA hybrid. Any one strand may include a mixture of DNA and RNA, as
10 well as modified forms that cannot readily be classified as either DNA or RNA. Likewise, a
   double stranded compound may be DNA:DNA, DNA:RNA or RNA:RNA, and any one
   strand may also include a mixture of DNA and RNA, as well as modified forms that cannot
   readily be classified as either DNA or RNA. A nucleic acid compound may include any of a
   variety of modifications, including one or modifications to the backbone (the sugar-phosphate
15 portion in a natural nucleic acid, including internucleotide linkages) or the base portion (the
   purine or pyrimidine portion of a natural nucleic acid). An antisense nucleic acid compound
   will preferably have a length of about 15 to about 30 nucleotides and will often contain one
   or more modifications to improve characteristics such as stability in the serum, in a cell or in
   a place where the compound is likely to be delivered, such as the stomach in the case of
20 orally delivered compounds and the lung for inhaled compounds. In the case of an RNAi
   construct, the strand complementary to the target transcript will generally be RNA or
   modifications thereof The other strand may be RNA, DNA or any other variation. The
   duplex portion of double stranded or single stranded "hairpin" RNAi construct will generally
   have a length of 18 to 40 nucleotides in length and optionally about 21 to 23 nucleotides in
25 length, so long as it serves as a Dicer substrate. Catalytic or enzymatic nucleic acids may be
   ribozymes or DNA enzymes and may also contain modified forms. Nucleic acid compounds
   may inhibit expression of the target by about 50%, 75%, 90% or more when contacted with
   cells under physiological conditions and at a concentration where a nonsense or sense control
   has little or no effect. Preferred concentrations for testing the effect of nucleic acid
30 compounds are 1, 5 and 10 micromolar. Nucleic acid compounds may also be tested for
   effects on, for example, red blood cell levels.
            In certain embodiments, an activin-ActRIla antagonist may be a follistatin
   polypeptide that antagonizes activin bioactivily and/or binds to activin. The tenn "follistatin
                                                    - 33 -

   polypeptide" includes polypeptides comprising any naturally occurring polypeptide of
   follistatin as well as any variants thereof (including mutants, fragments, fusions, and
   peptidomimetic forms) that retain a useful activity, and further includes any functional
   monomer or multimer of follistatin. Variants of follistatin polypeptides that retain activin
 5 binding properties can be identified based on previous studies involving follistatin and activin
   interactions. For example, W02008/030367 discloses specific follistatin domains ("FSDs")
   that are shown to be important for activin binding. As shown below in SEQ ID NOs: 19-21,
   the N-terminus follistatin domain ("FSND" SEQ ID NO: 19), FSD2 (SEQ ID NO: 20), and to
   a lesser extent FSDI (SEQ ID NO: 21) represent exemplary domains within follistatin
10 important for activin binding. In addition, methods for making and testing libraries of
   polypeptides are described above in the context of ActRlla polypeptides and such methods
   also pertain to making and testing variants of follistatin. Follistatin polypeptides include
   polypeptides derived from the sequence of any known follistatin having a sequence at least
   about 80% identical to the sequence of a follistatin polypeptide, and optionally at least 85%,
15 90%, 95%, 97%, 99% or greater identity. Examples of follistatin polypeptides include the
   mature follistatin polypeptide or shorter isoforms or other variants of the human follistatin
   precursor polypeptide (SEQ ID NO: 17) as described, for example, in W02005/025601.
           The human follistatin precursor polypeptide isoform FST344 is as follows:
           MVRARHQPGGLCLLLLLLCQFMEDRSAQAGNCWLRQAKNGRCQVLYKTEL
20          SKEECCSTGRLSTSWTEEDVNDNTLFKWMIFNGGAPNCIPCKETCENVDC
            GPGKKCRMNKKNKPRCVCAPDCSNITWKGPVCGLDGKTYRNECALLKARC
            KEQPELEVQYQGRCKKTCRDVFCPGSSTCVVDQTNNAYCVTCNRICPEPA
            SSEQYLCGNDGVTYSSACHLRKATCLLGRSICLAYEGKCIKAKSCEDIQC
           TGGKKCLWDFKVGRGRCSLCDELCPDSKSDEPVCASDNATYASECAMKEA
25         ACSSGVLLEVKHGSCNSISEDTEEEEEDEDQDYSFPISSILEW                          (SEQ ID
           NO: 17; NP_037541-1 FOLLISTATIN ISOFORM FST344)
   The signal peptide is single underlined; the last 27 residues in bold represent additional amino
   acids as compared to a shorter follistatin isoform FST3 17 (NP_006341) below.
           The human follistatin precursor polypeptide isoform FST317 is as follows:
30         MVRARHQPGGLCLLLLLLCQFMEDRSAQAGNCWLRQAKNGRCQVLYKTEL
            SKEECCSTGRLSTSWTEEDVNDNTLFKWMIFNGGAPNCIPCKETCENVDC
           GPGKKCRMNKKNKPRCVCAPDCSNITWKGPVCGLDGKTYRNECALLKARC
                                                     - 34 -

           KEQPELEVQYQGRCKKTCRDVFCPGSSTCVVDQTNNAYCVTCNRICPEPA
           SSEQYLCGNDGVTYSSACHLRKATCLLGRSIGLAYEGKCIKAKSCEDIQC
           TGGKKCLWDFKVGRGRCSLCDELCPDSKSDEPVCASDNATYASECAMKEA
           ACSSGVLLEVKHSGSCN            (SEQ ID NO: 18)
 5 The signal peptide is single underlined.
           N-terminus follistatin domain (FSND) sequence is as follows:
           GNCWLRQAKNGRCQVLYKTELSKEECCSTGRLSTSWTEEDVNDNTLFKWM
           I FNGGAPNCI PCK (SEQ ID NO: 19; FSND)
           The FSDI and FSD2 sequences are as follows:
10         ETCENVDCGPGKKCRMNKKNKPRCV (SEQ ID NO: 20; FSDI)
           KTCRDVFCPGSSTCVVDQTNNAYCVT                (SEQIDNO:21;FSD2)
           In other embodiments, an activin-ActRIla antagonist may be a follistatin-like related
   gene (FLRG) that antagonizes activin bioactivity and/or binds to activin. The term "FLRG
   polypeptide" includes polypeptides comprising any naturally occurring polypeptide of FLRG
15 as well as any variants thereof (including mutants, fragments, fusions, and peptidomimetic
   forms) that retain a useful activity. Variants of FLRG polypeptides that retain activin binding
   properties can be identified using routine methods to assay FLRG and activin interactions.
   See, for example, US 6,537,966. In addition, methods for making and testing libraries of
   polypeptides are described above in the context of ActRIla polypeptides and such methods
20 also pertain to making and testing variants of FLRG. FLRG polypeptides include
   polypeptides derived from the sequence of any known FLRG having a sequence at least about
   80% identical to the sequence of an FLRG polypeptide, and optionally at least 85%, 90%,
   95%, 97%, 99% or greater identity.
           The human FLRG precursor polypeptide is as follows:
25         MRPGAPGPLWPLPWGALAWAVGFVSSMGSGNPAPGGVCWLQQGQEATCSL
           VLQTDVTRAECCASGNIDTAWSNLTHPGNKINLLGFLGLVHCLPCKDSCD
           GVECGPGKACRMLGGRPRCECAPDCSGLPARLQVCGSDGATYRDECELRA
           ARCRGHPDLSVMYRGRCRKSCEHVVCPRPQSCVVDQTGSAHCVVCRAAPC
           VPSSPGQELCGNNNVTYISSCHMRQATCFLGRSIGVRHAGSCAGTPEEPP
30         GGESAEEEENFV (SEQ ID NO:22; NP 005851)
   The signal peptide is single underlined.
                                                   - 35 -

            In certain embodiments, functional variants or modified forms of the
   follistatin polypeptides and FLRG polypeptides include fusion protein having at
   least a portion of the follistatin polypeptides or FLRG polypeptides and one or
   more fusion domains, such as, for example, domains that facilitate isolation,
 5 detection, stabilization or multimerization of the polypeptide. Suitable fusion
   domains are discussed in detail above with reference to the ActRila polypeptides.
   In one embodiment, an activin-ActRila antagonist is a fusion protein comprising
   an activin binding portion of a follistaton polypeptide fused to an Fe domain- In
   another embodiment, an activin-ActRila antagonist is a fusion protein comprising
10 an activin binding portion of an FLRG polypeptide fused to an Fc domain.
   Follistatin and FLRG have been shown in the literature, and by the applicants with
   respect to FLRG, to have affinities for Activin A in the picomolar range,
   indicating that these agents will inhibit activin A signaling to a similar degree as
   ActRlla-Fc.
15
   5.       Screening Assays
            In certain aspects, the present invention relates to the use of ActRila polypeptides and
   activin polypeptides to identify compounds (agents) which are agonist or antagonists of the
   activin-ActRlla signaling pathway. Compounds identified through this screening can be
20 tested to assess their ability to modulate red blood cell, hemoglobin and/or reticulocyte levels
   in vivo or in vitro. These compounds can be tested, for example, in animal models.
            There are numerous approaches to screening for therapeutic agents for increasing red
   blood cell or hemoglobin levels by targeting activin and ActRIla signaling. In certain
   embodiments, high-throughput screening of compounds can be carried out to identify agents
25 that perturb activin or ActRila-mediated effects on a selected cell line. In certain
   embodiments, the assay is carried out to screen and identify compounds that specifically
   inhibit or reduce binding of an ActRlla polypeptide to activin. Alternatively, the assay can
   be used to identify compounds that enhance binding of an ActRila polypeptide to activin. In
   a further embodiment, the compounds can be identified by their ability to interact with an
30 activin or ActRIla polypeptide.
            A variety of assay formats will suffice and, in light of the present disclosure, those not
   expressly described herein will nevertheless be comprehended by one of ordinary skill in the
                                                     - 36 -

   art. As described herein, the test compounds (agents) of the invention may be created by any
   combinatorial chemical method. Alternatively, the subject compounds may be naturally
   occurring biomolecules synthesized in vivo or in vitro. Compounds (agents) to be tested for
   their ability to act as modulators of tissue growth can be produced, for example, by bacteria,
 5 yeast, plants or other organisms (e.g., natural products), produced chemically (e.g., small
   molecules, including peptidomimetics), or produced recombinantly. Test compounds
   contemplated by the present invention include non-peptidyl organic molecules, peptides,
   polypeptides, peptidomimetics, sugars, hormones, and nucleic acid molecules. In a specific
   embodiment, the test agent is a small organic molecule having a molecular weight of less
10 than about 2,000 Daltons.
            The test compounds of the invention can be provided as single, discrete entities, or
   provided in libraries of greater complexity, such as made by combinatorial chemistry. These
   libraries can comprise, for example, alcohols, alkyl halides, amines, amides, esters,
   aldehydes, ethers and other classes of organic compounds. Presentation of test compounds to
15 the test system can be in either an isolated form or as mixtures of compounds, especially in
   initial screening steps. Optionally, the compounds may be optionally derivatized with other
   compounds and have derivatizing groups that facilitate isolation of the compounds. Non
   limiting examples of derivatizing groups include biotin, fluorescein, digoxygenin, green
   fluorescent protein, isotopes, polyhistidine, magnetic beads, glutathione S transferase (GST),
20 photoactivatible crosslinkers or any combinations thereof
            In many drug screening programs which test libraries of compounds and natural
   extracts, high throughput assays are desirable in order to maximize the number of compounds
   surveyed in a given period of time. Assays which are performed in cell-free systems, such as
   may be derived with purified or semi-purified proteins, are often preferred as "primary"
25 screens in that they can be generated to permit rapid development and relatively easy
   detection of an alteration in a molecular target which is mediated by a test compound.
   Moreover, the effects of cellular toxicity or bioavailability of the test compound can be
   generally ignored in the in vitro system, the assay instead being focused primarily on the
   effect of the drug on the molecular target as may be manifest in an alteration of binding
30 affinity between an ActRIla polypeptide and activin.
            Merely to illustrate, in an exemplary screening assay of the present invention, the
   compound of interest is contacted with an isolated and purified ActRIla polypeptide which is
                                                    - 37 -

   ordinarily capable of binding to activin. To the mixture of the compound and ActRila
   polypeptide is then added a composition containing an ActRIla ligand. Detection and
   quantification of ActRlla/activin complexes provides a means for determining the
   compound's efficacy at inhibiting (or potentiating) complex formation between the ActRIla
 5 polypeptide and activin. The efficacy of the compound can be assessed by generating dose
   response curves from data obtained using various concentrations of the test compound.
   Moreover, a control assay can also be performed to provide a baseline for comparison. For
   example, in a control assay, isolated and purified activin is added to a composition containing
   the ActRIla polypeptide, and the formation of ActRIla/activin complex is quantitated in the
10 absence of the test compound. It will be understood that, in general, the order in which the
   reactants may be admixed can be varied, and can be admixed simultaneously. Moreover, in
   place of purified proteins, cellular extracts and lysates may be used to render a suitable cell
   free assay system.
            Complex formation between the ActRIla polypeptide and activin may be detected by
15 a variety of techniques. For instance, modulation of the formation of complexes can be
   quantitated using, for example, detectably labeled proteins such as radiolabeled (e.g.,  32
                                                                                               P, 35 S,
     Cor H), fluorescently labeled (e.g., FITC), or enzymatically labeled ActRIla polypeptide
   or activin, by immunoassay, or by chromatographic detection.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention contemplates the use of fluorescence
20 polarization assays and fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) assays in measuring,
   either directly or indirectly, the degree of interaction between an ActRila polypeptide and its
   binding protein. Further, other modes of detection, such as those based on optical
   waveguides (PCT Publication WO 96/26432 and U.S. Pat. No. 5,677,196), surface plasmon
   resonance (SPR), surface charge sensors, and surface force sensors, are compatible with
25 many embodiments of the invention.
            Moreover, the present invention contemplates the use of an interaction trap assay, also
   known as the "two hybrid assay," for identifying agents that disrupt or potentiate interaction
   between an ActRlla polypeptide and its binding protein. See for example, U.S. Pat. No.
    5,283,3 17; Zervos et al. (1993) Cell 72:223-232; Madura el al. (1993) J Biol Chen
30  268:12046-12054; Bartel et al. (1993) Biotechniques 14:920-924; and Iwabuchi et al. (1993)
   Oncogene 8:1693-1696). In a specific embodiment, the present invention contemplates the
    use of reverse two hybrid systems to identify compounds (e.g., small molecules or peptides)
                                                     - 38 -

   that dissociate interactions between an ActRIla polypeptide and its binding protein. See for
   example, Vidal and Legrain, (1999) Nucleic Acids Res 27:919-29; Vidal and Legrain, (1999)
   Trends Biotechnol 17:374-81; and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5,525,490; 5,955,280; and 5,965,368.
           In certain embodiments, the subject compounds are identified by their ability to
 5 interact with an ActRIla or activin polypeptide of the invention. The interaction between the
   compound and the ActRIla or activin polypeptide may be covalent or non-covalent. For
   example, such interaction can be identified at the protein level using in vitro biochemical
   methods, including photo-crosslinking, radiolabeled ligand binding, and affinity
   chromatography (Jakoby WB et al., 1974, Methods in Enzymology 46: 1). In certain cases,
10 the compounds may be screened in a mechanism based assay, such as an assay to detect
   compounds which bind to an activin or ActRI [a polypeptide. This may include a solid phase
   or fluid phase binding event. Alternatively, the gene encoding an activin or ActRIla
   polypeptide can be transfected with a reporter system (eg., p-galactosidase, luciferase, or
   green fluorescent protein) into a cell and screened against the library optionally by a high
15 throughput screening or with individual members of the library. Other mechanism based
   binding assays may be used, for example, binding assays which detect changes in free
   energy. Binding assays can be performed with the target fixed to a well, bead or chip or
   captured by an immobilized antibody or resolved by capillary electrophoresis. The bound
   compounds may be detected usually using colorimetric or fluorescence or surface plasmon
20 resonance.
   6.      Exemplary Therapeutic Uses
           In certain embodiments, activin-ActRlla antagonists (e.g., ActRila polypeptides) of
   the present invention can be used to increase red blood cell levels in mammals such as
25 rodents and primates, and particularly human patients. In certain embodiments, the present
   invention provides methods of treating or preventing anemia in an individual in need thereof
   by administering to the individual a therapeutically effective amount of an activin-ActRila
   antagonist, such as ati ActRila polypeptide. In certain embodiments, the present invention
   provides methods of promoting red blood cell formation in an individual by administering to
30 the individual a therapeutically effective amount of an activin-ActRila antagonist,
   particularly an ActRI la polypeptide. These methods may be used for therapeutic and
   prophylactic treatments of mammals, and particularly humans.
                                                   - 39 -

           As used herein, a therapeutic that "prevents" a disorder or condition refers to a
   compound that, in a statistical sample, reduces the occurrence of the disorder or condition in
   the treated sample relative to an untreated control sample, or delays the onset or reduces the
   severity of one or more symptoms of the disorder or condition relative to the untreated
 5 control sample. The term "treating" as used herein includes prophylaxis of the named
   condition or amelioration or elimination of the condition once it has been established. In
   either case, prevention or treatment may be discerned in the diagnosis provided by a
   physician or other health care provider and the intended result of administration of the
   therapeutic agent.
10          As shown herein, activin-ActRlla antagonists may be used to increase red blood cell,
   hemoglobin or reticulocyte levels in healthy individuals, and such antagonists may be used in
   selected patient populations. Examples of appropriate patient populations include those with
   undesirably low red blood cell or hemoglobin levels, such as patients having an anemia, and
   those that are at risk for developing undesirably low red blood cell or hemoglobin levels, such
15 as those patients that are about to undergo major surgery or other procedures that may result
   in substantial blood loss. In one embodiment, a patient with adequate red blood cell levels is
   treated with an activin-ActRIla antagonist to increase red blood cell levels, and then blood is
   drawn and stored for Iater use in transfusions.
            As described in the examples, activin-ActRIla antagonists may stimulate red blood
20 cell production by activation of splenic erythropoiesis. This novel mechanism indicates that
   these antagonists are likely to work synergistically with other anemia treatments, such as
   erythropoietin agonists (e.g., Epogen, Procrit, Aranesp, Epo mimics, Epo receptor agonists,
   etc.).
            Activin-ActRila antagonists disclosed herein, and particularly ActRlla-Fc proteins,
25 may be used to increase red blood cell levels in patients having an anemia. When observing
   hemoglobin levels in humans, a level of less than normal for the appropriate age and gender
   category may be indicative of anemia, although individual variations are taken into account.
   For example, a hemoglobin level of 12 g/dl is generally considered the lower limit of normal
   in the general adult population. Potential causes include blood-loss, nutritional deficits,
30 medication reaction, various problems with the bone marrow and many diseases. More
   particularly, anemia has been associated with a variety of disorders that include, for example,
   chronic renal failure, myelodysplastic syndrome (including Deletion 5q MDS), myelofibrosis,
                                                   - 40 -

   rheumatoid arthritis, bone marrow transplantation. Anemia may also be associated with the
   following conditions: solid tumors (e.g. breast cancer, lung cancer, colon cancer); tumors of
   the lymphatic system (e.g. chronic lymphocyte leukemia, non-Hodgkins and Hodgkins
   lymphomas); tumors of the hematopoietic system (eg. leukemia, myelodysplastic syndrome,
 5 multiple myeloma); radiation therapy; chemotherapy (e.g. platinum containing regimens);
   inflammatory and autoimmune diseases, including, but not limited to, rheumatoid arthritis,
   other inflammatory arthritides, systemic lupus erythematosis (SLE), acute or chronic skin
   diseases (e-g. psoriasis), inflammatory bowel disease (e.g. Crohn's disease and ulcerative
   colitis); acute or chronic renal disease or failure including idiopathic or congenital conditions;
10 acute or chronic liver disease; acute or chronic bleeding; situations where transfusion of red
   blood cells is not possible due to patient allo- or auto-antibodies and/or for religious reasons
   (e.g. some Jehovah's Witnesses); infections (e.g. malaria, osteomyelitis);
   hemoglobinopathies, including, for example, sickle cell disease, thalassemias; drug use or
   abuse, e.g. alcohol misuse; pediatric patients with anemia from any cause to avoid
15 transfusion; and elderly patients or patients with underlying cardiopulmonary disease with
   anemia who cannot receive transfusions due to concerns about circulatory overload.
            Activin-ActRIla antagonists (e.g., ActRIla polypeptides) would be appropriate for
   treating anemias of hypoproliferative bone marrow,       which are typically associated with little
   change in RBC morphology. Hypoproliferative anemias include: 1) anemia of chronic
20 disease, 2) anemia of kidney disease, and 3) anemia associated with hypometabolic states. In
   each of these types, endogenous erythropoietin levels are inappropriatelylow for the degree
   of anemia observed. Other hypoproliferative anemias include: 4) early-stage iron-deficient
   anemia, and 5) anemia caused by damage to the bone marrow. In these types, endogenous
   erythropoietin levels are appropriatelyelevated for the degree of anemia observed.
25          The most common type is anemia of chronic disease, which encompasses
   inflammation, infection, tissue injury, and conditions such as cancer, and is distinguished by
   both low erythropoietin levels and an inadequate response to erythropoietin in the bone
   marrow (Adamson, 2008, Harrison's Principles of internal Medicine, 17th ed.; McGraw Hill,
   New York, pp 628-634). Many factors can contribute to cancer-related anemia. Some are
30 associated with the disease process itself and the generation of inflamatory cytokines such as
   interleukin-1, interferon-gamma, and tumor necrosis factor (Bron et al., 2001, Semin Oncol
   28(Suppl 8):1-6). Among its effects, inflammation induces the key iron-regulatory peptide
                                                     -41 -

   hepcidin, thereby inhibiting iron export from macrophages and generally limiting iron
   availability for erythropoiesis (Ganz, 2007, J Am Soc Nephrol 18:394-400). Blood loss
   through various routes can also contribute to cancer-related anemia. The prevalence of
   anemia due to cancer progression varies with cancer type, ranging from 5% in prostate cancer
 5 up to 90% in multiple myeloma. Cancer-related anemia has profound consequences for
   patients, including fatigue and reduced quality of life, reduced treatment efficacy, and
   increased mortality.
           Chronic kidney disease is associated with hypoproliferative anemia that varies in
   severity with the degree of renal impairment. Such anemia is primarily due to inadequate
10 production of erythropoietin and reduced survival of red blood cells. Chronic kidney disease
   usually proceeds gradually over a period of years or decades to end-stage (Stage-5) disease,
   at which point dialysis or kidney transplantation is required for patient survival. Anemia
   often develops early in this process and worsens as disease progresses. The clinical
   consequences of anemia of kidney disease are well-documented and include development of
15 left ventricular hypertrophy, impaired cognitive function, reduced quality of life, and altered
   immune function (Levin et al., 1999, Am J Kidney Dis 27:347-354; Nissenson, 1992, Am J
   Kidney Dis    2 0 (Suppl 1):21-24; Revicki et al., 1995, Am J Kidney Dis 25:548-554; Gafter et
   ah, 1994, Kidney 1nt 45:224-231). As demonstrated by the Applicants in a mouse model of
   chronic kidney disease (see Example below), an ActRIla polypeptide, or other activin
20 ActRlla antagonist, can be used to treat anemia of kidney disease.
           Many conditions resulting in a hypometabolic rate can produce a mild-to-moderate
   hypoproliferative anemia. Among such conditions are endocrine deficiency states. For
   example, anemia can occur in Addison's disease, hypothyroidism, hyperparathyroidism, or
   males who are castrated or treated with estrogen. Mild-to-moderate anemia can also occur
25 with reduced dietary intake of protein, a condition particularly prevalent in the elderly.
   Finally, anemia can develop in patients with chronic liver disease arising from neai-ly any
   cause (Adamson, 2008, Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine, l7th ed.; McGraw Hill,
   New York, pp 628-634).
           Iron-deficiency anemia is the final stage in a graded progression of increasing iron
30 deficiency which includes negative iron balance and iron-deficient erythropoiesis as
   intermediate stages. Iron deficiency can result from increased iron demand, decreased iron
   intake, or increased iron loss, as exemplified in conditions such as pregnancy, inadequate
                                                      - 42 -

   diet, intestinal malabsorption, acute or chronic inflammation, and acute or chronic blood loss.
   With mild-to-moderate anemia of this type, the bone marrow remains hypoproliferative, and
   RBC morphology is largely normal; however, even mild anemia can result in some
   microcytic hypochromic RBCs, and the transition to severe iron-deficient anemia is
 5 accompanied by hypcrproliferation of the bone marrow and increasingly prevalent microcytic
   and hypochromic RBCs (Adamson, 2008, Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine, 17th
   ed.; McGraw Hill, New York, pp 628-634). Appropriate therapy for iron-deficiency anemia
   depends on its cause and severity, with oral iron preparations, parenteral iron formulations,
   and RBC transfusion as major conventional options. An ActRila polypeptide, or other
10 activin-ActRial antagonist, could be used to treat chronic iron-deficiency anemias alone (see
   Example below in a clinical trial patient) or in combination with conventional therapeutic
   approaches, particularly to treat anemias of multifactorial origin.
            Hypoproliferative anemias can result from primary dysfunction or failure of the bone
   marrow, instead of dysfunction secondary to inflammation, infection, or cancer progression.
15 Prominent examples would be myclosuppression caused by cancer chemotherapeutic drugs or
   cancer radiation therapy. A broad review of clinical trials round that mild anemia can occur
   in 100% of patients after chemotherapy, while more severe anemia can occur in up to 80% of
   such patients (croopman et al., 1999, J Natl Cancer Inst 91:1616-1634). Myelosuppressive
   drugs include: 1) alkylating agents such as nitrogen mustards (e.g., melphalan) and
20 nitrosoureas (e.g., streptozocin); 2) antimetabolites such as folic acid antagonists (e.g.,
   methotrexate), purine analogs (e.g., thioguanine), and pyrimidine analogs (e.g., gemeitabine);
   3) cytotoxic antibotics such as anthracyclines (e.g., doxorubicin); 4) kinase inhibitors (e.g.,
   gefitinib); 5) mitotic inhibitors such as taxanes (e.g., paclitaxel) and vinca alkaloids (e.g.,
   vinorelbine); 6) monoclonal antibodies (e.g., rituximab); and 7) topoisomerase inhibitors
25 (e.g., topotecan and etoposide). As demonstrated in a mouse model of chemotherapy-induced
   anemia (see Example below), an ActRIla polypeptide, or other activin-ActRlla antagonist,
   can be used to treat anemia caused by chemotherapeutic agents and/or radiation therapy.
            Activin-ActRIla antagonists (e.g., ActRIla polypeptides) would also be appropriate
   for treating anemias of disordered RBC maturation, which are characterized in part by
30 undersized (microcytic), oversized (macrocytic), misshapen, or abnormally colored
   (hypochromic) RBCs.
                                                    - 43-

           Patients may be treated with a dosing regimen intended to restore the patient to a
   target hemoglobin level, usually between about 10 g/dl and about 12.5 g/dl, and typically
   about 11.0 g/dl (see also Jacobs et al. (2000) Nephrol Dial Transplant 15, 15-19), although
   lower target levels may cause fewer cardiovascular or other side effects. Alternatively,
 5 hematocrit levels (percentage of the volume of a blood sample occupied by the cells) can be
   used as a measure for the condition of red blood cells. Hematocrit levels for healthy
   individuals range from 41 to 51% for adult males and from 35 to 45% for adult females.
   Target hematocrit levels are usually around 30-33%. Moreover, hemoglobin/hematocrit
   levels vary from person to person. Thus, optimally, the target hemoglobin/hematocrit level
10 can be individualized for each patient.
           The rapid effect on red blood cell levels of the activin-ActRIla antagonists disclosed
   herein indicate that these agents act by a different mechanism than Epo. Accordingly, these
   antagonists may be useful for increasing red blood cell and hemoglobin levels in patients that
   do not respond well to Epo. For example, an activin-ActRila antagonist may be beneficial
15 for a patient in which administering of a normal to increased (>300 IU/kg/week) dose of Epo
   does not result in the increase of hemoglobin level up to the target level. Patients with an
   inadequate Epo response are found for all types of anemia, but higher numbers of non
   responders have been observed particularly frequently in patients with cancers and patients
   with end-stage renal disease. An inadequate response to Epo can be either constitutive (i.e.
20 observed upon the first treatment with Epo) or acquired (e.g. observed upon repeated
   treatment with Epo).
           The activin-ActRlla antagonists may also be used to treat patients that are susceptible
   to adverse effects of Epo. The primary adverse effects of Epo are an excessive increase in the
   hemalocrit or hemoglobin levels and polycythemia. Elevated hematocrit levels can lead to
25 hypertension (more particularly aggravation of hypertension) and vascular thrombosis. Other
   adverse effects of Epo which have been reported, some of which related to hypertension, are
   headaches, influenza-like syndrome, obstruction of shunts, myocardial infarctions and
   cerebral convulsions due to thrombosis, hypertensive encephalopathy, and red cell blood cell
   applasia (Singibarti, (1994) J. Clin Investig 72(suppl 6), S36-S43; HorI et al. (2000) Nephrol
30 Dial Transplant I 5(suppl 4), 51-56; Delanty et al. (1997) Neurology 49, 686-689; Buonn
   (2002) N Eng J Med 346(7), 522-523).
                                                    - 44 -

            As described in U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 11/603,485, and in published
   patent applications WO 2008/100384 and WO/2007/062188, incorporated by reference
   herein, activin-ActRila antagonists can be used to promote bone growth and increase bone
   density. Thus, activin-ActRIla antagonists may be particularly helpful to patients with a
 5 disorder that is associated with bone loss and anemia. Examples include renal diseases
   (especially chronic kidney disease and end-stage kidney disease), osteoporosis, cancer- and
   cancer treatments (especially the myelosuppressive therapies mentioned above, and the anti
   estrogens discussed in WO 2008/100384 and WO/2007/062188), and inflammatory
   disorders, such as inflammatory bowel disease and rheumatoid arthritis.
10
   7.       Pharmaceutical Compositions
            In certain embodiments, activin-ActRila antagonists (e.g., ActRIla polypeptides) of
   the present invention are formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. For
   example, an ActRlla polypeptide can be administered alone or as a component of a
15 pharmaceutical formulation (therapeutic composition). The subject compounds may be
   formulated for administration in any convenient way for use in human or veterinary
   medicine.
            In certain embodiments, the therapeutic method of the invention includes
   administering the composition systemically, or locally as an implant or device. When
20 administered, the therapeutic composition for use in this invention is, of course, in a pyrogen
   free, physiologically acceptable form. Therapeutically useful agents other than the activin
   ActRIla antagonists which may also optionally be included in the composition as described
   above, may be administered simultaneously or sequentially with the subject compounds (e.g.,
   ActRila polypeptides) in the methods of the invention.
25          Typically, activin-ActRIal antagonists will be administered parenterally.
    Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for parenteral administration may comprise one or
   more ActRla polypeptides in combination with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable
   sterile isotonic aqueous or nonaqueous solutions, dispersions, suspensions or emulsions, or
   sterile powders which may be reconstituted into sterile injectable solutions or dispersions just
30 prior to use, which may contain antioxidants, buffers, bacteriostats, solutes which render (lie
   formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient or suspending or thickening
   agents. Examples of suitable aqueous and nonaqueous carriers which may be employed in
                                                   - 45 -

   the pharmaceutical compositions of the invention include water, ethanol, polyols (such as
   glycerol, propylene glycol, polyethylene glycol, and the like), and suitable mixtures thereof,
   vegetable oils, such as olive oil, and injectable organic esters, such as ethyl oleate. Proper
   fluidity can be maintained, for example, by the use of coating materials, such as lecithin, by
 5 the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions, and by the use of
   surfactants.
            Further, the composition may be encapsulated or injected in a form for delivery to a
   target tissue site (e.g., bone marrow). In certain embodiments, compositions of the present
   invention may include a matrix capable of delivering one or more therapeutic compounds
10 (e.g., ActRI [a polypeptides) to a target tissue site (e-g., bone marrow), providing a structure
   for the developing tissue and optimally capable of being resorbed into the body. For
   example, the matrix may provide slow release of the ActRIla polypeptides. Such matrices
   may be formed of materials presently in use for other implanted medical applications.
            The choice of matrix material is based on biocompatibility, biodegradability,
15 mechanical properties, cosmetic appearance and interface properties. The particular
   application of the subject compositions will define the appropriate formulation. Potential
   matrices for the compositions may be biodegradable and chemically defined calcium sulfate,
   tricalciumphosphate, hydroxyapatite, polylactic acid and polyanhydrides. Other potential
   materials are biodegradable and biologically well defined, such as bone or dermal collagen.
20 Further matrices are comprised of pure proteins or extracellular matrix components. Other
   potential matrices are non-biodegradable and chemically defined, such as sintered
   hydroxyapatite, bioglass, aluminates, or other ceramics. Matrices may be comprised of
   combinations of any of the above mentioned types of material, such as polylactic acid and
   hydroxyapatite or collagen and tricalciumphosphate. The bioceramics may be allied in
25 composition, such as in calcium-aluminate-phosphatc and processing to alter pore size,
   particle size, particle shape, and biodegradability.
            In certain embodiments, methods of the invention can be administered for orally, e.g.,
   in the fom of capsules, cachets, pills, tablets, lozenges (using a flavored basis, usually
   sucrose and acacia or tragacanth), powders, granules, or as a solution or a suspension in an
30 aqueous or non-aqueous liquid, or as an oil-in-water or water-in-oil liquid emulsion, or as an
   elixir or syrup, or as pastilles (using an inert base, such as gelatin and glycerin, or sucrose and
   acacia) and/or as mouth washes and the like, each containing a predelernined amount of an
                                                      - 46 -

   agent as an active ingredient. An agent may also be administered as a bolus, electuary or
   paste.
           In solid dosage forms for oral administration (capsules, tablets, pills, dragees,
   powders, granules, and the like), one or more therapeutic compounds of the present invention
 5 may be mixed with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable carriers, such as sodium citrate
   or dicalciun phosphate, and/or any of the following: (1) fillers or extenders, such as starches,
   lactose, sucrose, glucose, mannitol, and/or silicic acid; (2) binders, such as, for example,
   carboxymethylcellulose, alginates, gelatin, polyvinyl pyrrolidone, sucrose, and/or acacia; (3)
   humectants, such as glycerol; (4) disintegrating agents, such as agar-agar, calcium carbonate,
10 potato or tapioca starch, alginic acid, certain silicates, and sodium carbonate; (5) solution
   retarding agents, such as paraffin; (6) absorption accelerators, such as quaternary ammonium
   compounds; (7) wetting agents, such as, for example, cetyl alcohol and glycerol
   monostearate; (8) absorbents, such as kaolin and bentonite clay; (9) lubricants, such a tale,
   calcium stearate, magnesium stearate, solid polyethylene glycols, sodium lauryl sulfate, and
15 mixtures thereof; and (10) coloring agents. In the case of capsules, tablets and pills, the
   pharmaceutical compositions may also comprise buffering agents. Solid compositions of a
   similar type may also be employed as fillers in soft and hard-filled gelatin capsules using
   such excipients as lactose or milk sugars, as well as high molecular weight polyethylene
   glycols and the like.
20         Liquid dosage forms for oral administration include pharmaceutically acceptable
   emulsions, microemulsions, solutions, suspensions, syrups, and elixirs. In addition to the
   active ingredient, the liquid dosage forms may contain inert diluents commonly used in the
   art, such as water or other solvents, solubilizing agents and emulsifiers, such as ethyl alcohol,
   isopropyl alcohol, ethyl carbonate, ethyl acetate, benzyl alcohol, benzyl benzoate, propylene
25 glycol, 1,3-butylene glycol, oils (in particular, cottonseed, groundnut, corn, germ, olive,
   castor, and sesame oils), glycerol, tetrahydrofuryl alcohol, polyethylene glycols and fatty acid
   esters of sorbitan, and mixtures thereof. Besides inert diluents, the oral compositions can also
   include adjuvants such as wetting agents, emulsifying and suspending agents, sweetening,
   flavoring, coloring, perfuming, and preservative agents.
30         Suspensions, in addition to the active compounds, may contain suspending agents
   such as ethoxylated isostearyl alcohols, polyoxyethylene sorbitol, and sorbitan esters,
                                                     - 47 -

   microcrystalline cellulose, aluminum metahydroxide, bentonite, agar-agar and tragacanth,
   and mixtures thereof.
            The compositions of the invention may also contain adjuvants, such as preservatives,
   wetting agents, emulsifying agents and dispersing agents. Prevention of the action of
 5 microorganisms may be ensured by the inclusion of various antibacterial and antifungal
   agents, for example, paraben, chlorobutanol, phenol sorbic acid, and the like. It may also be
   desirable to include isotonic agents, such as sugars, sodium chloride, and the like into the
   compositions. In addition, prolonged absorption of the injectable pharmaceutical form may
   be brought about by the inclusion of agents which delay absorption, such as aluminum
10 monostearate and gelatin.
            It is understood that the dosage regimen will be determined by the attending physician
   considering various factors which modify the action of the subject compounds of the
   invention (e.g., ActRila polypeptides). The various factors include, but are not limited to, the
   patient's red blood cell count, hemoglobin level or other diagnostic assessments, the desired
15 target red blood cell count, the patient's age, sex, and diet, the severity of any disease that
   may be contributing to a depressed red blood cell level, time of administration, and other
   clinical factors. The addition of other known growth factors to the final composition may
   also affect the dosage. Progress can be monitored by periodic assessment of red blood cell
   and hemoglobin levels, as well as assessments of reticulocyte levels and other indicators of
20 the hematopoietic process.
            Experiments with primates and humans have demonstrated that effects of ActRlla-Fc
   on red blood cell levels are detectable when the compound is dosed at intervals and amounts
   sufficient to achieve serum concentrations of about 100 ng/ml or greater, for a period of at
   least about 20 to 30 days. Dosing to obtain serum levels of 200 ng/ml, 500 ng/ml, 1000
25 ng/ml or greater for a period of at least 20 to 30 days may also be used. Bone effects can be
   observed at serum levels of about 200 ng/ml, with substantial effects beginning at about 1000
   ng/rml or higher, over a period of at least about 20 to 30 days. Thus, if it is desirable to
   achieve effects on ied blood cells while having little effect on bone, a dosing scheme may be
   designed to deliver a serum concentration of between about 100 and 1000 nglml over a
30 period of about 20 to 30 days. In humans, serum levels of 200 rig/ml may be achieved with a
   single dose of 0. 1 mg/kg or greater and serum levels of 1000 ng/ml may be achieved with a
   single dose of 0.3 mg/kg or greater. The observed serum half-life of the molecule is between
                                                    - 48 -

   about 20 and 30 days, substantially longer than most Fc fusion proteins, and thus a sustained
   effective serum level may be achieved, for example, by dosing with about 0.05 to 0.5 mg/kg
   on a weekly or biweekly basis, or higher doses may be used with longer intervals between
   dosings. For example, doses of 0.1 to I mg/kg might be used on a monthly or bimonthly
 5 basis.
            In certain embodiments, the present invention also provides gene therapy for the in
   vivo production of ActRIla polypeptides. Such therapy would achieve its therapeutic effect
   by introduction of the ActRIla polynucleotide sequences into cells or tissues having the
   disorders as listed above. Delivery of ActRIla polynucleotide sequences can be achieved
10 using a recombinant expression vector such as a chimeric virus or a colloidal dispersion
   system. Preferred for therapeutic delivery of ActRIla polynucleotide sequences is the use of
   targeted liposomes.
            Various viral vectors which can be utilized for gene therapy as taught herein include
   adenovirus, herpes virus, vaccinia, or an RNA virus such as a retrovirus. The retroviral
15 vector may be a derivative of a murine or avian retrovirus. Examples of retroviral vectors in
   which a single foreign gene can be inserted include, but are not limited to: Moloney murine
   leukemia virus (MoMuLV), Harvey murine sarcoma virus (HaMuSV), murine mammary
   tumor virus (MuMTV), and Rous Sarcoma Virus (RSV). A number of additional retroviral
   vectors can incorporate multiple genes. All of these vectors can transfer or incorporate a
20 gene for a selectable marker so that transduced cells can be identified and generated.
   Retroviral vectors can be made target-specific by attaching, for example, a sugar, a
   glycolipid, or a protein. Preferred targeting is accomplished by using an antibody. Those of
   skill in the art will recognize that specific polynucleotide sequences can be inserted into the
   retroviral genome or attached to a viral envelope to allow target specific delivery of the
25 retroviral vector containing the ActRIla polynucleotide.
            Alternatively, tissue culture cells can be directly Iransfected with plasmids encoding
   the retroviral structural genes gag, pol and env, by conventional calcium phosphate
   transfection. These cells are then transfected with the vector plasmid containing the genes of
   interest. The resulting cells release the retroviral vector into the culture medium.
30          Another targeted delivery system for ActRila polynucleotides is a colloidal dispersion
   system. Colloidal dispersion systems include macromolecule complexes, nanocapsules,
   microspheres, beads, and lipid-based systems including oil-in-water emulsions, micelles,
                                                     - 49 -

   mixed micelles, and liposomes. The preferred colloidal system of this invention is a
   liposome. Liposomes are artificial membrane vesicles which are useful as delivery vehicles
   in vitro and in vivo. RNA, DNA and intact virions can be encapsulated within the aqueous
   interior and be delivered to cells in a biologically active form (see e.g., Fraley, et al., Trends
 5 Biochem. Sci., 6:77, 1981). Methods for efficient gene transfer using a liposome vehicle, are
   known in the art, see e.g., Mannino, et al., Biotechniques, 6:682, 1988. The composition of
   the liposome is usually a combination of phospholipids, usually in combination with steroids,
   especially cholesterol. Other phospholipids or other lipids may also be used. The physical
   characteristics of liposomes depend on pH, ionic strength, and the presence of divalent
10 cations.
           Examples of lipids useful in liposome production include phosphatidyl compounds,
   such as phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylserine,
   phosphatidylethanolamine, sphingolipids, cerebrosides, and gangliosides. Illustrative
   phospholipids include egg phosphatidylcholine, dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, and
15 distearoylphospharidylcholine. The targeting of liposomes is also possible based on, for
   example, organ-specificity, cell-specificity, and organelle-specificity and is known in the art.
   EXEMPLIFICATION
           The invention now being generally described, it will be more readily understood by
20 reference to the following examples, which are included merely for purposes of illustration of
   certain embodiments and embodiments of the present invention, and are not intended to limit
   the invention.
   Example 1: ActRIla-Fc Fusion Proteins
           Applicants constructed a soluble ActRila fusion protein that has the extracellular
25 domain of human ActRlla fused to a human or mouse Fe domain with a minimal linker in
   between. The constructs are referred to as ActRIla-hFc and ActRila-mFec, respectively.
           ActRlla-hfc is shown below as purified from CH O cell lines (SEQ ID NO: 7):
   ILGRSETQECLFFNANWEKDRTNQTGVEPCYGDKDKRRHCFATWKNISGSIEIVKQG
   CWLDDINCYDRTDCVEKKDSPEVYFCCCEGNMCNEKFSYFPEMEVTQPTSNPVTPK
30 PPTGGGTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKF
   NWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEOYNSTYRVVSVLTV LHODWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALP
                                                    - 50 -

   VPIEKTISKAKGOPREPOVYTLPPSREEMTKNOVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGOP
   ENNYKTTPPVLDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWOOGNVFSCSVMH EALHNHYTOKSLSL
   SPGK
            The ActRila-hFc and ActRHIa-mFc proteins were expressed in CHO cell lines. Three
 5 different leader sequences were considered:
   (i) Honey bee mellitin (HBML): MKFLVNVALVFMVVYISYIYA (SEQ ID NO: 8)
   (ii) Tissue Plasminogen Activator (TPA): MDAMKROLCCVLLLCGAVFVSP (SEQ ID
   NO: 9)
   (iii) Native: MGAAAKLAFAVFLISCSSGA (SEQ ID NO: 10).
10          The selected form employs the TPA leader and has the following unprocessed amino
   acid sequence:
   MDAMKRGLCCVLLLCGAVFVSPGAAILGRSETQECLFFNANWEKDRTNQTGVEPCY
   GDKDKRRHCFATWKNISGSIEIVKQGCWLDDINCYDRTDCVEKKDSPEVYFCCCEG
   NMCNEKFSYFPEMEVTQPTSNPVTPKPPTGGGTHTCPPCPAPELLGGPSVFLFPPKPK
15 DTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAKTKPREEQYNSTYRVVS
   VLTVLHQDWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPVPIEKTISKAKGQPREPQVYTLPPSREEMTKN
   QVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEW ESNGQPENNYKTTPPV LDSDGSFFLYSKLTVDKSRWQ
   QGNVFSCSVMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPGK (SEQ ID NO: 13)
            This polypeptide is encoded by the following nucleic acid sequence:
20 ATGGATGCAATGAAGAGAGGGCTCTGCTGTGTGCTGCTGCTGTGTGGAGCAGTCT
   TCGTTTCGCCCGGCGCCGCTATACTTGGTAGATCAGAAACTCAGGAGTGTCTTTT
   TTTAATGCTAATTGGGAAAAAGACAGAACCAATCAAACTGGTGTTGAACCGTGTT
   ATGGTGACAAAGATAAACGGCGGCATTGTTTTGCTACCTGGAAGAATATTTCTGG
   TTCCATTGAATAGTGAAACAAGGTTGTTGGCTGGATGATATCAACTGCTATGACA
25 GGACTGATTGTGTAGAAAAAAAAGACAGCCCTGAAGTATATTTCTGTTGCTGTGA
   GGGCAATATGTGTAATGAAAAGTTTCTTATTTTCCGGAGATGGAAGTCACACAG
   CCCACTTCAAATCCAGTTACACCTAAGCCACCCACCGGTGGTGGAACTCACACAT
   GCCCACCGTGCCCAGCACCTGAACTCCTGGGGGGACCGTCAGTCTTCCTCTTCCC
   CCCAAAACCCAAGGACACCCTCATGATCTCCCGGACCCCTGAGGTCACATGCGTG
30 GTGGTGGACGTGAGCCACGAAGACCCTGAGGTCAAGTTCAACTGGTACGTGGAC
   GGCGTGGAGGTGCATAATGCCAAGACAAAGCCGCGGGAGGAGCAGTACAACAG
                                                   -51-

   CACGTACCGTGTGGTCAGCGTCCTCACCGTCCTGCACCAGGACTGGCTGAATGGC
   AAGGAGTACAAGTGCAAGGTCTCCAACAAAGCCCTCCCAGTCCCCATCGAGAAA
   ACCATCTCCAAAGCCAAAGGGCAGCCCCGAGAACCACAGGTGTACACCCTGCCC
   CCATCCCGGGAGGAGATGACCAAGAACCAGGTCAGCCTGACCTGCCTGGTCAAA
 5 GGCTTCTATCCCAGCGACATCGCCGTGGAGTGGGAGAGCAATGGGCAGCCGGAG
   AACAACTACAAGACCACOCCTCCCGTGCTGGACTCCGACGGCTCCTTICTTCCTCT
   ATAGCAAGCTCACCGTGGACAAGAGCAGGTGGCAGCAGGGGAACGTCTTCTCAT
   GCTCCGTGATGCATGAGGCTCTGCACAACCACTACACGCAGAAGAGCCTCTCCCT
   GTCTCCGGGTAAATGAGAATTC (SEQ ID NO:14)
10          Both ActRIla-hFc and ActRIla-mFc were remarkably amenable to recombinant
   expression. As shown in figure 1, the protein was purified as a single, well-defined peak of
   protein. N-terminal sequencing revealed a single sequence of-ILGRSTQE (SEQ ID NO:
    11). Purification could be achieved by a series of column chromatography steps, including,
   for example, three or more of the following, in any order: protein A chromatography, Q
15 sepharose chromatography, phenylsepharose chromatography, size exclusion
   chromatography, and cation exchange chromatography. The purification could be completed
   with viral filtration and buffer exchange. The ActRIla-hFc protein was purified to a purity of
   >98% as determined by size exclusion chromatography and >95% as determined by SDS
   PAGE.
20          ActRila-hFc and ActRIla-mFc showed a high affinity for ligands, particularly activin
   A. GDF-l I or Activin A ("ActA") were immobilized on a Biacore CM5 chip using standard
   amine coupling procedure. ActRila-hFc and ActRIla-mFc proteins were loaded onto the
   system, and binding was measured. ActRIla-hFc bound to activin with a dissociation
   constant (K 0 ) of 5x10-12 , and the protein bound to GDFI I with a KD of 9.96x10 9 . See figure
25 2. ActRIla-mFc behaved similarly.
            The ActRlla-hFc was very stable in pharmacokinetic studies. Rats were dosed with I
   mg/kg, 3 mg/kg or 10 mg/kg of ActRIla-hFc protein and plasma levels of the protein were
   measured at 24, 48, 72, 144 and 168 hours. In a separate study, rats were dosed at I mg/kg,
    10 mg/kgor30 mg/kg. In rats, ActRIla-hFc had an 11-14 day serum half life and circulating
30 levels of the drug were quite high after two weeks (II pg/ml, 110 pg/ml or 304 pg/mI for
   initial administrations of I mg/kg, 10 mg/kg or 30 mg/kg, respectively.) In cynomolgus
   monkeys, the plasma half life was substantially greater than 14 days and circulating levels of
                                                    - 52 -

   the drug were 25 pg/ml, 304 pg/ml or 1440 pg/ml for initial administrations of I mg/kg, 10
   mg/kg or 30 mg/kg, respectively. Preliminary results in humans suggests that the serum half
   life is between about 20 and 30 days.
 5 Example 2: Characterization of an ActRIla-hFec Protein
            ActRlla-hFc fusion protein was expressed in stably transfected CHO-DUKX B I
   cells from a pAID4 vector (SV40 ori/enhancer, CMV promoter), using a tissue plasminogen
   leader sequence of SEQ ID NO:9. The protein, purified as described above in Example 1,
   had a sequence of SEQ ID NO:7. The Fe portion is a human IgGI Fe sequence, as shown in
10 SEQ ID NO:7. Sialic acid analysis showed that the protein contained, on average, between
   about 1.5 and 2.5 moles of sialic acid per molecule of ActRIla-hFc fusion protein.
            This purified protein showed a remarkably long serum half-life in all animals tested,
   including a half-life of 25-32 days in human patients (see Example 6, below). Additionally,
   the CHO cell expressed material has a higher affinity for activin B ligand than that reported
15 for an ActRila-hFc fusion protein expressed in human 293 cells (del Re et al., J Biol Chem.
   2004 Dec 17;279(51):53126-35.) Additionally, the use of the tPa leader sequence provided
   greater production than other leader sequences and, unlike ActRIla-Fc expressed with a
   native leader, provided a highly pure N-terminal sequence. Use of the native leader sequence
   resulted in two major species of ActRila-Fc, each having a different N-terminal sequence.
20
   Example 3. ActRlla-hFc Increases Red Blood Cell Levels in Non-Human Primates
            The study employed four groups of five male and five female cynomolgus monkeys
   each, with three per sex per group scheduled for termination on Day 29, and two per sex per
   group scheduled for termination on Day 57. Each animal was administered the vehicle
25 (Group 1)or ActRlla-Fc at doses of 1, 10, or 30 mg/kg (Groups 2, 3 and 4. respectively) via
   intravenous (IV) injection on Days 1, 8, 15 and 22. The dose volume was maintained at 3
   mL/kg. Various measures of red blood cell levels were assessed two days prior to the first
   administration and at days 15, 29 and 57 (for the remaining two animals) after the first
   administration.
30          The ActRlla-hFc caused statistically significant increases in mean red blood cell
   parameters (red blood cell count [RBC], hemoglobin [HGB], and hematocrit [HCT]) for
                                                   - 53 -

   males and females, at all dose levels and time points throughout the study, with
   accompanying elevations in absolute and relative reticulocyte counts (ARTC; RTC). See
   Figures 3-6.
            Statistical significance was calculated for each treatment group relative to the mean
 5 for the treatment group at baseline.
            Notably, the increases in red blood cell counts and hemoglobin levels are roughly
   equivalent in magnitude to effects reported with erythropoietin. The onset of these effects is
   more rapid with ActRlla-Fc than with erythropoietin.
            Similar results were observed with rats and mice.
10
   Example 4. ActRlla-hFec Increases Red Blood Cell Levels and Markers of Bone Formation in
   Human Patients
            The ActRlIa-hFc fusion protein described in Example I was administered to human
   patients in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study that was conducted to
15 evaluate, primarily, the safety of the protein in healthy, postmenopausal women. Forty-eight
   subjects were randomized in cohorts of 6 to receive either a single dose of ActRila-hFc or
   placebo (5 active: I placebo). Dose levels ranged from 0.01 to 3.0 mg/kg intravenously (IV)
   and 0.03 to 0.1 mg/kg subcutaneously (SC). All subjects were followed for 120 days. In
   addition to pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses, the biologic activity of ActRlla-hFc was also
20 assessed by measurement of biochemical markers of bone formation and resorption, and FSH
   levels.
            To look for potential changes, hemoglobin and RBC numbers were examined in detail
   for all subjects over the course of the study and compared to the baseline levels. Platelet
   counts were compared over the same time as the control. There were no clinically significant
25 changes from the baseline values over time for the platelet counts.
            PK analysis of ActRlla-hFc displayed a linear profile with dose, and a mean half-life
   of approximately 25-32 days. The area-under-curve (AUC) for ActRlla-hFc was linearly
   related to dose, and the absorption after SC dosing was essentially complete (see Figures 7
   and 8). These data indicate that SC is a desirable approach to dosing because it provides
30 equivalent bioavailability and serum-half life for the di-ug while avoiding the spike in serum
   concentrations of drug associated with the first few days of IV dosing (see Figure 8).
                                                     - 54 -

   ActRIla-hFc caused a rapid, sustained dose-dependent increase in serum levels of bone
   specific alkaline phosphatase (BAP), which is a marker for anabolic bone growth, and a dose
   dependent decrease in C-terminal type I collagen telopeptide and tartrate-resistant acid
   phosphatase 5b levels, which are markers for bone resorption. Other markers, such as PINP
 5 showed inconclusive results. BAP levels showed near saturating effects at the highest dosage
   of drug, indicating that half-maximal effects on this anabolic bone biomarker could be
   achieved at a dosage of 0.3 mg/kg, with increases ranging up to 3 mg/kg. Calculated as a
   relationship of pharmacodynamic effect to AUC for drug, the EC50 is 51,465 (day*ng/ml).
   See Figure 9. These bone biomarker changes were sustained for approximately 120 days at
10 the highest dose levels tested. There was also a dose-dependent decrease in serum FSH
   levels consistent with inhibition of activin.
            Overall, there was a very small non-drug related reduction in hemoglobin over the
   first week of the study probably related to study phlebotomy in the 0.01 and 0.03 mg/kg
   groups whether given IV or SC. The 0.1 mg/kg SC and IV hemoglobin results were stable or
15 showed modest increases by Day 8-15. At the 0.3 mg/kg IV dose level there was a clear
   increase in HGB levels seen as early as Day 2 and often peaking at Day 15-29 that was not
   seen in the placebo subjects. At the 1.0 mg/kg IV dose and the 3.0 mg/kg IV dose, mean
   increases in hemoglobin of greater than I g/dI were observed in response to the single dose,
   with corresponding increases in RBC counts and hematocrit. These hematologic parameters
20 peaked at about 60 days after the dose and substantial decrease by day 120. This indicates
   that dosing for the purpose of increasing red blood cell levels may be more effective if done
   at intervals less than 120 days (i.e., prior to return to baseline), with dosing intervals of 90
   days or less or 60 days or less may be desirable. For a summary of hematological changes,
   see Figures 10-13.
25          Overall, ActRlla-hFc showed a dose-dependent effect on red blood cell counts and
   reticulocyte counts, and a dose-dependent effect on markers of bone formation.
   Example 5. Treatment of an Anemic Patient with ActRIla-hFc
            A clinical study was designed to treat patients with multiple doses of ActRila-hFc, at
30 dose levels of 0.1 mg/kg, 0.3 mg/kg and 1.0 mg/kg, with closing every thirty days. Normal
   healthy patients in the trial exhibited an increase in hemoglobin and lematocrit that is
   consistent with the increases seen in the Phase I clinical trial reported in Example 4, except
                                                      - 55 -

   that, in some instances, the hemoglobin and hematocrit were elevated beyond the normal
   range. An anemic patient with hemoglobin of approximately 7.5 also received two doses at
   the I mg/kg level, resulting in a hemoglobin level of approximately 10.5 after two months.
   The patient's anemia was a microcytic anemia, thought to be caused by chronic iron
 5 deficiency.
   Example 6. ActRlla-mFc Increases Red Blood Cell Levels in Mice by Stimulation of Splenic
   Red Blood Cell Release
            In this study the effects of the in vivo administration of ActRIlIa-mFc on the frequency
10 of hematopoictic progenitors in bone marrow and spleen was analyzed. One group of mice
   was injected with PBS as a control and a second group of mice administered two doses of
   AciRila-mFc at 10 mg/kg and both groups sacrificed after 8 days. Peripheral blood was used
   to perform complete blood counts and femurs and spleens were used to perform in vitro
   clonogenic assays to assess the lymphoid, erythroid and myeloid progenitor cell content in
15 each organ. In the peripheral blood a significant increase in the red blood cell and
   hemoglobin content was seen in compound treated mice. In the femurs there was no
   difference in the nucleated cell numbers or progenitor content between the control and treated
   groups. In the spleens, the compound treated group experienced a statistically significant
   increase in the nucleated cell number before red blood cell lysis and in the mature erythroid
20 progenitor (CFU-E) colony number per dish, frequency and total progenitor number per
   spleen. In addition, and increase was seen in the number of myeloid (CFU-GM), immature
   erythroid (BFU-E) and total progenitor number per spleen.
            Animals:
            Sixteen BDF I female mice 6 -8 weeks of age were used in the study. Eight mice were
25 injected subcutaneously with test compound ActRJla-mFc at days I and 3 at a dose of 10
   mg/kg and eight mice were injected subcutaneously with vehicle control, phosphate buffered
   saline (PBS), at a volume of 100 pL per mouse. All mice were sacrificed 8 days after first
   injection in accordance with the relevant Animal Care Guidelines. Peripheral blood (PB)
   samples from individual animals were collected by cardiac puncture and used for complete
30 blood counts and differential (CBC/Diff). Femurs and spleens were harvested from each
   mouse.
                                                      - 56 -

            Tests performed:
            CBC/Diff Counts
            PB from each mouse was collected via cardiac puncture and placed into the
   appropriate microtainer tubes. Samples were sent to CLV for analysis on a CeilDyn 3500
 5 counter.
            Clonogenic Assays
            Clonogenic progenitors of the myeloid, erythroid and lymphoid lineages were
   assessed using the in vitro methylcellulose-based media systems described below.
            Mature Erythroid Progenitors:
10          Clonogenic progenitors of the mature erythroid (CFU-E) lineages were cultured in
   MethoCultTM 3334, a metliylcellulose-based medium containing recombinant human (rh)
   Erythropoietin (3 U/mL).
            Lymphoid Projenitors:
            Clonogenic progenitors of the lymphoid (CFU-pre-B) lineage were cultured in
15 MethoCult@ 3630, a methylcellulose-based medium containing rh Interleukin 7 (10 ng/mL).
            Mycloid and Immature Erythroid Progenitors:
            Clonogenic progenitors of the granulocyte-monocyte (CFU-GM), erythroid (BFU-E)
   and multipotential (CFU-GEMM) lineages were cultured in MethoCultTM 3434, a
   methylcellulose-based medium containing recombinant murine (rm) Stem Cell Factor (50
20 ng/mL), rh Interleukin 6 (10 ng/mL), rn Interleukin 3 (10 ng/mL) and rh Erythropoietin (3
   U/m L).
            Methods:
            Mouse femurs and spleens were processed by standard protocols. Briefly, bone
   marrow was obtained by flushing the femoral cavity with Iscove's Modified Dulbecco's
25 Media containing 2% fetal bovine serum (IM DM 2% FBS) using a 21 gauge needle and I cc
   syringe. Spleen cells were obtained by crushing spleens through a 70 pM filter and rinsing
   the filter with IMDM 2% FBS. Nucleated cell counts in 3% glacial acetic acid were then
   performed on the single cells suspensions using a Neubauer counting chamber so that the
   total cells per organ could be calculated. To remove contaminating red blood cells, total
                                                   - 57 -

   spleen cells were then diluted with 3 times the volume of ammonium chloride lysis buffer
   and incubated on ice 10 minutes. The cells were then washed and resuspended in
           IMDM 2% FBS and a second cell count were performed to determine the cell
   concentration of cells after lysis.
 5         Cell stocks were made and added to each methylcellulose-based media formulation to
   obtain the optimal plating concentrations for each tissue in each media formulation. Bone
   marrow cells were plated at 1x10 5 cells per dish in MethoCultTM 3334 to assess mature
   erythroid progenitors, 2x10 5 cells per dish in MethoCultTM 3630 to assess lymphoid
   progenitors and 3x 104 cells per dish in MethoCultTM 3434 to assess immature erythroid and
10 myeloid progenitors. Spleen cells were plated at 4x10 5 cells per dish in MethoCultTM 3334
   to assess mature erythroid progenitors, 4x10 5 cells per dish in MethoCultTM 3630 to assess
   lymphoid progenitors and 2x10 5 cells per dish in MethoCultTM 3434 to assess immature
   erythroid and myeloid progenitors. Cultures plated in triplicate dishes were incubated at
   370 C, 5% C02 until colony enumeration and evaluation was performed by trained personnel.
15 Mature erythroid progenitors were cultured for 2 days, lymphoid progenitors were cultured
   for 7 days and mature erythroid and myeloid progenitors were cultured for 12 days.
           Analysis:
           The mean +/- I standard deviation was calculated for the triplicate cultures of the
   clonogenic assays and for the control and treatment groups for all data sets.
20         Frequency of colony forming cells (CFC) in each tissue was calculated as follows:
           Cells plated per dish
           Mean CFC scored per dish
           Total CFC per femur or spleen was calculated as follows:
           Total CFC scored x nucleated cell count per femur or spleen (following RBC lysis)
25         Number of nucleated cells cultured
           Standard t-tests were performed to assess if there was a differences in the mean
   number of cells or hematopoietic progenitors between the PBS control mice and compound
   treated mice. Due to the potential subjectivity of colony enumeration, a p value of less than
   0.01 is deemed significant. Mean values (+/- SD) for each group are shown in the tables
30 below.
                                                    -58-

           Table: Hematologic Parameters
   Treatment           White Blood        Red Blood Cells    Hemoglobin          Hematocrit
                       Cells (xI0/L)           0 /L)                             (L/L)
   Group                                  (x IO              (g/L
   PBS                 6.37 +/- 2.83       10.9 +0.7         154.5 +/- 5.9       0.506 +/- 0.029
   (n=8)
   ActRlla-mFc         8.92 +-3.69        11.8 +/-0.3*       168.3+/- 4.3**      0.532 +/- 0.014
   (n=-8)
    *=p<0.01
   *    p < 0.0005
 5
           Table: CFC From Femur and Spleen
   Treatment           Total CFC per      Total CFC per       Total CFU-E per Total CFU-E per
   Group               Femur               Spleen             Femur              Spleen
   PBS                 33437+/-7118       4212+/-1148         27185+/-12893 6743+/-1591
   (n=8)
   ActRIIa-mFec        31068+/-8024        6816+/-1516*       18118+/-6672       27313+/-11790
   (n=8)__
   *p     < 0.005
   **= p <    000 I
10         Treatment of mice with ActRIla-mFc resulted in significant increases in a number of
   hematopoietic parameters. In the peripheral blood a significant increase in the red blood cell
   and hemoglobin content was seen in compound treated mice. In the femurs there was no
   difference in the nucleated cell numbers or progenitor content between the control and treated
   groups. In the spleens, the compound treated group experienced a statistically significant
15 increase in the nucleated cell number before red blood cell lysis and in the mature erythroid
   progenitor (CFU.-E) colony number per dish, fi-equency and total progenitor number per
   spleen. In addition, an increase was seen in the number of myeloid (CFU-GM), immature
   erythroid (BFU-E) and total progenitor number per spleen.
                                                     - 59 -

   Example 7. Alternative ActRIla-Fc Proteins
           A variety of ActRlla variants that may be used according to the methods described
   herein are described in the International Patent Application published as W02006/012627
   (see e.g., pp. 55-58), incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. An alternative construct
 5 may have a deletion of the C-terminal tail (the final 15 amino acids of the extracellular
   domain of ActRIla. The sequence for such a construct is presented below (Fe portion
   underlined)(SEQ ID NO: 12):
   ILGRSETQECLFFNANW EKDRTNQTGVEPCYGDKDKRR HCFATWKNISGSIEIVKQG
   CWLDDINCYDRTDCVEKKDSPEVYFCCCEGNMCNEKFSYFPEMTGGGTHTCPPCPA
10 PELLGGPSVFLFPPKPKDTLMISRTPEVTCVVVDVSHEDPEVKFNWYVDGVEVHNAK
   TKPREEOYNSTYRVVSVLTVLHODWLNGKEYKCKVSNKALPVPIEKTISKAKGOPRE
   POVYTLPPSREEMTKNOVSLTCLVKGFYPSDIAVEWESNGOPENNYKTTPPVLDSDG
   SFFLYSKLTVDKSRWOOGNVFSCSVMH EALHNHYTOKSLSLSPGK
15 Example 8: Effect of ActRIlA-mFc on Chemotherapv-Induced Anemia in Mice
           Applicants investigated the effect of ActRIIA-mFc on chemotherapy-induced anemia
   in mice. In the first of two studies, 6-week-old female C57BU6 mice were treated with a
   single dose of ActRIIA-mFc (10 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle (phosphate-buffered saline) 3 days
   before a single dose of the chemotherapeutic paclitaxel (20 mg/kg, i.p.). Blood samples were
20 collected before chemotherapy and then 3, 7, and 14 days (n = 6 per cohort per time point)
   after paclitaxel. ActRITA-mFc prevented the decline in hematocrit level otherwise observed
   after paclitaxel (Figure 15), and similar effects were observed for hemoglobin concentration
   and RBC count. In a second study, 6-week-old female C57BL/6 mice were given a varying
   number of AcIRIIA-mFc doses (10 mg/kg, s.c.), or vehicle (PBS), beginning before
25 paclitaxel (20 mg/kg single dose, i.p.) and continuing at intervals of 3 or 4 days. Blood
   samples were collected 3, 7, and 14 days (n = 8 per cohort per time point) after paclitaxel. At
    14 days, ActRIIA-mFc treatment increased hematocrit level progressively as a function of
   dose number (Figure 16). Thus, ActRIlA-mFc can stimulate erythropoiesis sufficiently to
   attenuate or prevent chenotherapy-induced anemia.
30
                                                    - 60 -

   Example 9: Effect of ActRlIA-mFc on Anemia in a Mouse Model of Chronic Kidney Disease
            Applicants investigated the effect of ActRIIA-mFc on nephrectomy-induced anemia
   in mice as a model of chronic kidney disease. In the first of two studies, female C57BL/6
   mice underwent a partial surgical nephrectomy, with removal of approximately five-sixths of
 5 total kidney volume, to reduce production of erythropoietin. Mice were given a 4-week
   recovery period with a high-fat diet to further promote renal deficiency and were then treated
   twice-weekly with ActRIIA-mFc (10 mg/kg, s.c.) or vehicle (PBS) for a total of 8 weeks.
   Blood samples were collected before the onset of dosing, after 4 weeks of treatment, and after
   8 weeks of treatment (n = 8 per cohort per time point). Control mice exhibited a decline in
10 hematocrit level over the 8-week treatment period, whereas ActRIIA-mFec treatment
   prevented the decline at 4 weeks and also produced a beneficial trend at 8 weeks (Figure 17).
   Similar benefits of ActRIIA-mFec treatment over control were observed in a second study that
   differed mainly in the use of a longer recovery period (2 months) and a standard diet. Thus,
   ActRIIA-mFc can stimulate erythropoiesis sufficiently to prevent or attenuate anemia in a
15 model of chronic kidney disease.
            Taken together, these findings indicate that soluble ActRIIA-Fc fusion proteins can be
   used as antagonists of signaling by TGF- family ligands to increase circulating levels of red
   blood cells, and thereby, to treat hypoproliferative anemias resulting from chronic diseases
   such as cancer and renal disease, and potentially other inflammatory or infectious diseases as
20 well. Note that effects of ACE-01 I on anemia in human patients are typically robust
   compared to the more modest effects in rodents.
   INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
25          All publications and patents mentioned herein are hereby incorporated by reference in
   their entirety as if each individual publication or patent was specifically and individually
   indicated to be incorporated by reference.
            While specific embodiments of the subject matter have been discussed, the above
   specification is illustrative and not restrictive. Many variations will become apparent to those
30 skilled in the art upon review of this specification and the claims below. The full scope of the
    invention should be determined by reference to the claims, along with their full scope of
   equivalents, and the specification, along with such variations.
                                                      -61 -

   We Claim:
   1.    A method for increasing red blood cell levels in a patient in need thereof, the method
         comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of an activin-ActRila
 5       antagonist at a dosing interval in a range of once per week to once every 90 days.
   2.    The method of claim 1, wherein the dosing interval is in a range of once per week to
         once every 60 days.
   3.    A method for increasing red blood cell levels and bone formation in a patient in need
         thereof, the method comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of an
10       activin-ActRIla antagonist.
   4.    A method for treating anemia in a patient in need thereof, the method comprising
         administering to the patient an effective amount of an activin-ActRIla antagonist.
   5.    A method for increasing the release of red blood cells from the spleen, the method
         comprising administering to the patient an effective amount of an activin-ActRIla
15       antagonist.
   6.    The method of claim 5, wherein the patient has a disorder of the bone marrow.
   7.    A method for increasing red blood cell levels in a patient, the method comprising
         administering an effective amount of an activin antagonist and an erythropoietin
         agonist.
20 8.    The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein the activin-ActRila antagonist is an
          antibody that binds to a target protein selected from the group consisting of: an activin
          and ActRIla.
   9.    The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein the activin-ActRIla antagonist is inhibin or
          a conservative variant of inhibin.
25  10.   The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein the activin-ActRila antagonist is a protein
          comprising a follistatin domain that binds to and antagonizes activin.
    I1.   The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein the activin-ActRila antagonist is a protein
          selected from the group consisting of: follistatin, FLRG and a conservative variant of
          the forgoing.
30  12.   The method of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the activin-ActRila antagonist is an
          ActRi la polypeptide selected from the group consisting of:
          a) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 90% identical to SEQ ID
          NO: 2;
                                                   - 62 -

       b) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 90% identical to SEQ ID
       NO: 3;
       c) a polypeptide comprising at least 50 consecutive amino acids selected from SEQ
       ID NO: 2;
 5     d) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence at least 90% identical to SEQ ID
       NO: 7; and
       e) a polypeptide comprising an amino acid sequence that is encoded by a nucleic acid
       that hybridizes under stringent conditions to the complement of SEQ ID NO:5.
   13. The method of claim 12; wherein the polypeptide has one or more of the following
10     characteristics:
       i) binds to an ActRila ligand with a K0 of at least 10' M; and
       ii) inhibits ActR1la signaling in a cell.
   14. The method of claim 12, wherein said polypeptide is a fusion protein including, in
       addition to an ActRila polypeptide domain, one or more polypeptide portions that
15     enhance one or more of in vivo stability, in vivo half life, uptake/administration,
       tissue localization or distribution, formation of protein complexes, and/or purification.
   15. The method of claim 12, wherein said fusion protein includes a polypeptide portion
       selected from the group consisting of: an immunoglobulin Fc domain and a serum
       albumin.
20 16. The method of claim 12, wherein said polypeptide includes one or more modified
       amino acid residues selected from: a glycosylated amino acid, a PEflylated amino
       acid, a famesylated amino acid, an acetylated amino acid, a biotinylated amino acid,
       an amino acid conjugated to a lipid moiety, and an amino acid conjugated to an
       organic derivatizing agent.
25 17. The method of claim 12, wherein the ActRila-Fc fusion protein comprises an amino
       acid sequence selected from the group consisting of:
       a) the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 3,
       b) the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 2,
       c) the amino acid sequence of SEQ ID NO: 7.
30 18. The method of claim 4, wherein the patient has a hypoproliferative anemia.
   19. The method of claim 18, wherein the patient has a kidney disease.
   20. The method of claim 18, wherein the patient has a cancer.
                                                 - 63 -

   21. The method of claimi 20, wherein the cancer is selected from the group consisting of:
       multiple myeloma and breast cancer.
   22. The method of claim 18, wherein the patient is iron deficient.
   23. The method of claim 18, wherein the patient has a disorder of the bone marrow.
 5 24. The method of claim 4, wherein the patient has a microcytic anemia.
   25. The method of claim 4, wherein the patient has been treated with a myelosuppressive
       therapy.
   26. The method of claim 25, wherein the myelosuppressive therapy is selected from the
       group consisting of: radiation and chemotherapy.
10 27. The method of claim 25, wherein the myclosuppressive therapy is selected from the
       group consisting of: an alkylating agent, an anti-metabolite, a cytotoxic antibiotic, a
       kinase inhibitor, a mitotic inhibitor, and a topoisomerase inhibitor.
   28. The method of claim 25, wherein the patient has been treated with a taxane.
   29. The method of claim 28, wherein the taxane is paclitaxel.
15 30. The method of claim 3, wherein the patient has anemia and bone loss.
   31. The method of claim 3, wherein the patient has a disorder selected from the group
       consisting of: inflammatory bowel diseases, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple myeloma, a
       solid tumor, and a kidney disorder.
   32. The method of claim 3, wherein the patient has end stage renal disease.
20
                                                - 64  -

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
                                                      502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
                                                    SEQUENCE LI STI NG
              <110> SHERMAN, MATTHEW L.
                    SEEHRA, J ASBI R
                    BORGSTEI N, NI ELS
              <120> ANTAGONI STS OF ACTI VI N- ACTRI I A AND USES FOR I NCREASI NG RED BLOOD
                    CELL LEVELS
              <130> PHPH- 038- WO1
              <140> PCT/ US2009/ 003838
<removed-apn>
              <141> 2009- 06- 26
              <150> 61/ 133, 368
              <151> 2008- 06- 26
              <160> 25
              <170> Pat ent I n v er s i on 3. 5
              <210>   1
              <211>   513
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 1
              Met Gl y Al a Al a Al a Ly s Leu Al a Phe Al a Val Phe Leu I l e Ser Cy s
              1                  5                      10                     15
              Ser Ser Gl y Al a I l e Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Gl u Thr Gl n Gl u Cy s Leu Phe
                           20                       25                     30
              Phe As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Ly s As p Ar g Thr As n Gl n Thr Gl y Val Gl u
                       35                       40                      45
              Pr o Cy s Ty r Gl y As p Ly s As p Ly s Ar g Ar g Hi s Cy s Phe Al a Thr Tr p
                   50                       55                       60
              Ly s As n I l e Ser Gl y Ser I l e Gl u I l e Val Ly s Gl n Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu
              65                       70                       75                       80
              As p As p I l e As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Thr As p Cy s Val Gl u Ly s Ly s As p
                                   85                      90                      95
              Ser Pr o Gl u Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Met Cy s As n Gl u
                            100                    105                     110
              Ly s Phe Ser Ty r Phe Pr o Gl u Met Gl u Val Thr Gl n Pr o Thr Ser As n
                       115                    120                   125
              Pr o Val Thr Pr o Ly s Pr o Pr o Ty r Ty r As n I l e Leu Leu Ty r Ser Leu
                   130                    135                       140
              Val Pr o Leu Met Leu I l e Al a Gl y I l e Val I l e Cy s Al a Phe Tr p Val
              145                  150                       155                      160
              Ty r Ar g Hi s Hi s Ly s Met Al a Ty r Pr o Pr o Val Leu Val Pr o Thr Gl n
                                                           Page 1

                                                      502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
                                  165                    170                        175
              As p Pr o Gl y Pr o Pr o Pr o Pr o Ser Pr o Leu Leu Gl y Leu Ly s Pr o Leu
                             180                     185                   190
              Gl n Leu Leu Gl u Val Ly s Al a Ar g Gl y Ar g Phe Gl y Cy s Val Tr p Ly s
                       195                    200                     205
              Al a Gl n Leu Leu As n Gl u Ty r Val Al a Val Ly s I l e Phe Pr o I l e Gl n
<removed-apn>
                   210                    215                    220
              As p Ly s Gl n Ser Tr p Gl n As n Gl u Ty r Gl u Val Ty r Ser Leu Pr o Gl y
              225                     230                      235                   240
              Met Ly s Hi s Gl u As n I l e Leu Gl n Phe I l e Gl y Al a Gl u Ly s Ar g Gl y
                                 245                     250                       255
              Thr Ser Val As p Val As p Leu Tr p Leu I l e Thr Al a Phe Hi s Gl u Ly s
                          260                    265                    270
              Gl y Ser Leu Ser As p Phe Leu Ly s Al a As n Val Val Ser Tr p As n Gl u
                       275                  280                    285
              Leu Cy s Hi s I l e Al a Gl u Thr Met Al a Ar g Gl y Leu Al a Ty r Leu Hi s
                  290                       295                    300
              Gl u As p I l e Pr o Gl y Leu Ly s As p Gl y Hi s Ly s Pr o Al a I l e Ser Hi s
              305                       310                     315                      320
              Ar g As p I l e Ly s Ser Ly s As n Val Leu Leu Ly s As n As n Leu Thr Al a
                                   325                   330                    335
              Cy s I l e Al a As p Phe Gl y Leu Al a Leu Ly s Phe Gl u Al a Gl y Ly s Ser
                              340                    345                    350
              Al a Gl y As p Thr Hi s Gl y Gl n Val Gl y Thr Ar g Ar g Ty r Met Al a Pr o
                        355                     360                    365
              Gl u Val Leu Gl u Gl y Al a I l e As n Phe Gl n Ar g As p Al a Phe Leu Ar g
                   370                    375                      380
              I l e As p Met Ty r Al a Met Gl y Leu Val Leu Tr p Gl u Leu Al a Ser Ar g
              385                      390                  395                    400
              Cy s Thr Al a Al a As p Gl y Pr o Val As p Gl u Ty r Met Leu Pr o Phe Gl u
                                 405                     410                    415
              Gl u Gl u I l e Gl y Gl n Hi s Pr o Ser Leu Gl u As p Met Gl n Gl u Val Val
                              420                     425                    430
              Val Hi s Ly s Ly s Ly s Ar g Pr o Val Leu Ar g As p Ty r Tr p Gl n Ly s Hi s
                                                         Page 2

                                                       502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
                        435                      440                        445
              Al a Gl y Met Al a Met Leu Cy s Gl u Thr I l e Gl u Gl u Cy s Tr p As p Hi s
                   450                   455                      460
              As p Al a Gl u Al a Ar g Leu Ser Al a Gl y Cy s Val Gl y Gl u Ar g I l e Thr
              465                      470                    475                      480
              Gl n Met Gl n Ar g Leu Thr As n I l e I l e Thr Thr Gl u As p I l e Val Thr
<removed-apn>
                                 485                      490                     495
              Val Val Thr Met Val Thr As n Val As p Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Gl u Ser Ser
                          500                  505                     510
              Leu
              <210>   2
              <211>   115
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 2
              I l e Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Gl u Thr Gl n Gl u Cy s Leu Phe Phe As n Al a As n
              1                   5                      10                    15
              Tr p Gl u Ly s As p Ar g Thr As n Gl n Thr Gl y Val Gl u Pr o Cy s Ty r Gl y
                             20                      25                     30
              As p Ly s As p Ly s Ar g Ar g Hi s Cy s Phe Al a Thr Tr p Ly s As n I l e Ser
                        35                       40                     45
              Gl y Ser I l e Gl u I l e Val Ly s Gl n Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p I l e As n
                   50                       55                       60
              Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Thr As p Cy s Val Gl u Ly s Ly s As p Ser Pr o Gl u Val
              65                      70                      75                      80
              Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Met Cy s As n Gl u Ly s Phe Ser Ty r
                                 85                      90                      95
              Phe Pr o Gl u Met Gl u Val Thr Gl n Pr o Thr Ser As n Pr o Val Thr Pr o
                            100                   105                    110
              Ly s Pr o Pr o
                        115
              <210>   3
              <211>   100
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 3
              I l e Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Gl u Thr Gl n Gl u Cy s Leu Phe Phe As n Al a As n
                                                          Page 3

                                                               502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              1                       5                           10                               15
              Tr p Gl u Ly s As p Ar g Thr As n Gl n Thr Gl y Val Gl u Pr o Cy s Ty r Gl y
                             20                      25                     30
              As p Ly s As p Ly s Ar g Ar g Hi s Cy s Phe Al a Thr Tr p Ly s As n I l e Ser
                        35                       40                     45
              Gl y Ser I l e Gl u I l e Val Ly s Gl n Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p I l e As n
<removed-apn>
                   50                       55                       60
              Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Thr As p Cy s Val Gl u Ly s Ly s As p Ser Pr o Gl u Val
              65                      70                      75                      80
              Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Met Cy s As n Gl u Ly s Phe Ser Ty r
                                 85                      90                      95
              Phe Pr o Gl u Met
                            100
              <210>    4
              <211>    1542
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Homo s api ens
              <400> 4
              at gggagc t g c t gc aaagt t ggc gt t t gc c gt c t t t c t t a t c t c c t gt t c t t c aggt gc t     60
              at ac t t ggt a gat c agaaac t c aggagt gt c t t t t c t t t a at gc t aat t g ggaaaaagac             120
              agaac c aat c aaac t ggt gt t gaac c gt gt t at ggt gac a aagat aaac g gc ggc at t gt                 180
              t t t gc t ac c t ggaagaat at t t c t ggt t c c at t gaaat ag t gaaac aagg t t gt t ggc t g           240
              gat gat at c a ac t gc t at ga c aggac t gat t gt gt agaaa aaaaagac ag c c c t gaagt a                300
              t at t t t t gt t gc t gt gaggg c aat at gt gt aat gaaaagt t t t c t t at t t t c c agagat g          360
              gaagt c ac ac agc c c ac t t c aaat c c agt t ac ac c t aagc c ac c c t at t a c aac at c c t g       420
              c t c t at t c c t t ggt gc c ac t t at gt t aat t gc ggggat t g t c at t t gt gc at t t t gggt g     480
              t ac aggc at c ac aagat ggc c t ac c c t c c t gt ac t t gt t c c aac t c aaga c c c aggac c a        540
              c c c c c ac c t t c t c c at t ac t agggt t gaaa c c ac t gc agt t at t agaagt gaaagc aagg           600
              ggaagat t t g gt t gt gt c t g gaaagc c c ag t t gc t t aac g aat at gt ggc t gt c aaaat a            660
              t t t c c aat ac aggac aaac a gt c at ggc aa aat gaat ac g aagt c t ac ag t t t gc c t gga            720
              at gaagc at g agaac at at t ac agt t c at t ggt gc agaaa aac gaggc ac c agt gt t gat                  780
              gt ggat c t t t ggc t gat c ac agc at t t c at gaaaagggt t c ac t at c aga c t t t c t t aag          840
              gc t aat gt gg t c t c t t ggaa t gaac t gt gt c at at t gc ag aaac c at ggc t agaggat t g            900
              gc at at t t ac at gaggat at ac c t ggc c t a aaagat ggc c ac aaac c t gc c at at c t c ac            960
              agggac at c a aaagt aaaaa t gt gc t gt t g aaaaac aac c t gac agc t t g c at t gc t gac              1020
              t t t gggt t gg c c t t aaaat t t gaggc t ggc aagt c t gc ag gc gat ac c c a t ggac aggt t           1080
                                                                 Page 4

                                                            502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              ggt ac c c gga ggt ac at ggc t c c agaggt a t t agagggt g c t at aaac t t c c aaagggat         1140
              gc at t t t t ga ggat agat at gt at gc c at g ggat t agt c c t at gggaac t ggc t t c t c gc    1200
              t gt ac t gc t g c agat ggac c t gt agat gaa t ac at gt t gc c at t t gagga ggaaat t ggc       1260
              c agc at c c at c t c t t gaaga c at gc aggaa gt t gt t gt gc at aaaaaaaa gaggc c t gt t       1320
              t t aagagat t at t ggc agaa ac at gc t gga at ggc aat gc t c t gt gaaac c at t gaagaa          1380
              t gt t gggat c ac gac gc aga agc c aggt t a t c agc t ggat gt gt aggt ga aagaat t ac c         1440
<removed-apn>
              c agat gc aga gac t aac aaa t at t at t ac c ac agaggac a t t gt aac agt ggt c ac aat g        1500
              gt gac aaat g t t gac t t t c c t c c c aaagaa t c t agt c t at ga                             1542
              <210>   5
              <211>   345
              <212>   DNA
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 5
              at ac t t ggt a gat c agaaac t c aggagt gt c t t t t c t t t a at gc t aat t g ggaaaaagac        60
              agaac c aat c aaac t ggt gt t gaac c gt gt t at ggt gac a aagat aaac g gc ggc at t gt           120
              t t t gc t ac c t ggaagaat at t t c t ggt t c c at t gaaat ag t gaaac aagg t t gt t ggc t g     180
              gat gat at c a ac t gc t at ga c aggac t gat t gt gt agaaa aaaaagac ag c c c t gaagt a          240
              t at t t t t gt t gc t gt gaggg c aat at gt gt aat gaaaagt t t t c t t at t t t c c agagat g    300
              gaagt c ac ac agc c c ac t t c aaat c c agt t ac ac c t aagc c ac c c                           345
              <210>   6
              <211>   225
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c pol y pept i de
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> ( 43) . . ( 43)
              <223> As p or Al a
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> ( 100) . . ( 100)
              <223> Ly s or Al a
              <220>
              <221> MOD_RES
              <222> ( 212) . . ( 212)
              <223> As n or Al a
              <400> 6
              Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o
              1                 5                        10                     15
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser
                          20                     25                     30
                                                       Page 5

                                                          502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val Xaa Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p
                       35                     40                  45
              Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n
                   50                     55                      60
              Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val
              65                      70                       75                     80
<removed-apn>
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u
                              85                    90                      95
              Ty r Ly s Cy s Xaa Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Val Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s
                             100                   105                    110
              Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr
                        115                     120                      125
              Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr
                  130                     135                    140
              Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u
              145                    150                    155                      160
              Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu
                                 165                      170                    175
              As p Ser As p Gl y Pr o Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s
                            180                   185                   190
              Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u
                       195                      200                  205
              Al a Leu Hi s Xaa Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y
                   210                    215                   220
              Ly s
              225
              <210>   7
              <211>   344
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c pol y pept i de
              <400> 7
              I l e Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Gl u Thr Gl n Gl u Cy s Leu Phe Phe As n Al a As n
              1                   5                      10                    15
              Tr p Gl u Ly s As p Ar g Thr As n Gl n Thr Gl y Val Gl u Pr o Cy s Ty r Gl y
                                                          Page 6

                                                       502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
                             20                       25                       30
              As p Ly s As p Ly s Ar g Ar g Hi s Cy s Phe Al a Thr Tr p Ly s As n I l e Ser
                        35                       40                     45
              Gl y Ser I l e Gl u I l e Val Ly s Gl n Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p I l e As n
                   50                       55                       60
              Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Thr As p Cy s Val Gl u Ly s Ly s As p Ser Pr o Gl u Val
<removed-apn>
              65                      70                      75                      80
              Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Met Cy s As n Gl u Ly s Phe Ser Ty r
                                 85                      90                      95
              Phe Pr o Gl u Met Gl u Val Thr Gl n Pr o Thr Ser As n Pr o Val Thr Pr o
                            100                   105                    110
              Ly s Pr o Pr o Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a
                        115                     120                    125
              Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o
                   130                    135                  140
              Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val
              145                   150                     155                   160
              Val As p Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val
                               165                      170                    175
              As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n
                            180                     185                     190
              Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n
                        195                   200                 205
              As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a
                   210                     215                      220
              Leu Pr o Val Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o
              225                     230                     235                      240
              Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr
                                  245                   250                     255
              Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser
                             260                  265                   270
              As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r
                         275                     280                     285
              Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r
                                                       Page 7

                                                        502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
                   290                       295                    300
              Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe
              305                  310                     315                     320
              Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s
                               325                    330                     335
              Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ly s
<removed-apn>
                          340
              <210>   8
              <211>   21
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Api s s p.
              <400> 8
              Met Ly s Phe Leu Val As n Val Al a Leu Val Phe Met Val Val Ty r I l e
              1                5                     10                  15
              Ser Ty r I l e Ty r Al a
                             20
              <210>   9
              <211>   22
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Unk nown
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Unk nown: Ti s s ue Pl as mi nogen Ac t i v at or l eader
                    s equenc e
              <400> 9
              Met As p Al a Met Ly s Ar g Gl y Leu Cy s Cy s Val Leu Leu Leu Cy s Gl y
              1                 5                       10                   15
              Al a Val Phe Val Ser Pr o
                           20
              <210>   10
              <211>   20
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Unk nown
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Unk nown: Nat i v e l eader s equenc e
              <400> 10
              Met Gl y Al a Al a Al a Ly s Leu Al a Phe Al a Val Phe Leu I l e Ser Cy s
              1                  5                      10                     15
              Ser Ser Gl y Al a
                           20
              <210> 11
              <211> 8
              <212> PRT
                                                              Page 8

                                                          502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213> Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c pept i de
              <400> 11
              I l e Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Thr Gl n Gl u
              1                   5
              <210>   12
              <211>   329
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c pol y pept i de
              <400> 12
              I l e Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Gl u Thr Gl n Gl u Cy s Leu Phe Phe As n Al a As n
              1                   5                      10                    15
              Tr p Gl u Ly s As p Ar g Thr As n Gl n Thr Gl y Val Gl u Pr o Cy s Ty r Gl y
                             20                      25                     30
              As p Ly s As p Ly s Ar g Ar g Hi s Cy s Phe Al a Thr Tr p Ly s As n I l e Ser
                        35                       40                     45
              Gl y Ser I l e Gl u I l e Val Ly s Gl n Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p I l e As n
                   50                       55                       60
              Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Thr As p Cy s Val Gl u Ly s Ly s As p Ser Pr o Gl u Val
              65                      70                      75                      80
              Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Met Cy s As n Gl u Ly s Phe Ser Ty r
                                 85                      90                      95
              Phe Pr o Gl u Met Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o
                            100                    105                    110
              Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s
                        115                    120                  125
              Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val
                   130                   135                     140
              Val Val As p Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r
              145                  150                      155                    160
              Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u
                                165                     170                     175
              Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s
                             180                   185                 190
              Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s
                                                           Page 9

                                                          502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
                        195                         200                        205
              Al a Leu Pr o Val Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n
                   210                     215                     220
              Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met
              225                      230                   235                     240
              Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o
<removed-apn>
                                 245                  250                   255
              Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n
                             260                     265                     270
              Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu
                        275                   280                    285
              Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val
                   290                  295                     300
              Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n
              305                  310                    315                     320
              Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y Ly s
                               325
              <210>   13
              <211>   369
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c pol y pept i de
              <400> 13
              Met As p Al a Met Ly s Ar g Gl y Leu Cy s Cy s Val Leu Leu Leu Cy s Gl y
              1                 5                       10                   15
              Al a Val Phe Val Ser Pr o Gl y Al a Al a I l e Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Gl u Thr
                           20                     25                       30
              Gl n Gl u Cy s Leu Phe Phe As n Al a As n Tr p Gl u Ly s As p Ar g Thr As n
                        35                    40                       45
              Gl n Thr Gl y Val Gl u Pr o Cy s Ty r Gl y As p Ly s As p Ly s Ar g Ar g Hi s
                   50                     55                       60
              Cy s Phe Al a Thr Tr p Ly s As n I l e Ser Gl y Ser I l e Gl u I l e Val Ly s
              65                     70                       75                       80
              Gl n Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p I l e As n Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Thr As p Cy s
                                  85                       90                      95
                                                               Page 10

                                                     502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              Val Gl u Ly s Ly s As p Ser Pr o Gl u Val Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y
                            100                     105                    110
              As n Met Cy s As n Gl u Ly s Phe Ser Ty r Phe Pr o Gl u Met Gl u Val Thr
                       115                     120                    125
              Gl n Pr o Thr Ser As n Pr o Val Thr Pr o Ly s Pr o Pr o Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y
                   130                    135                    140
<removed-apn>
              Thr Hi s Thr Cy s Pr o Pr o Cy s Pr o Al a Pr o Gl u Leu Leu Gl y Gl y Pr o
              145                    150                      155                    160
              Ser Val Phe Leu Phe Pr o Pr o Ly s Pr o Ly s As p Thr Leu Met I l e Ser
                              165                     170                   175
              Ar g Thr Pr o Gl u Val Thr Cy s Val Val Val As p Val Ser Hi s Gl u As p
                            180                   185                  190
              Pr o Gl u Val Ly s Phe As n Tr p Ty r Val As p Gl y Val Gl u Val Hi s As n
                        195                    200                    205
              Al a Ly s Thr Ly s Pr o Ar g Gl u Gl u Gl n Ty r As n Ser Thr Ty r Ar g Val
                   210                     215                      220
              Val Ser Val Leu Thr Val Leu Hi s Gl n As p Tr p Leu As n Gl y Ly s Gl u
              225                 230                    235                     240
              Ty r Ly s Cy s Ly s Val Ser As n Ly s Al a Leu Pr o Val Pr o I l e Gl u Ly s
                                  245                    250                     255
              Thr I l e Ser Ly s Al a Ly s Gl y Gl n Pr o Ar g Gl u Pr o Gl n Val Ty r Thr
                            260                      265                      270
              Leu Pr o Pr o Ser Ar g Gl u Gl u Met Thr Ly s As n Gl n Val Ser Leu Thr
                       275                     280                    285
              Cy s Leu Val Ly s Gl y Phe Ty r Pr o Ser As p I l e Al a Val Gl u Tr p Gl u
                   290                   295                      300
              Ser As n Gl y Gl n Pr o Gl u As n As n Ty r Ly s Thr Thr Pr o Pr o Val Leu
              305                     310                      315                   320
              As p Ser As p Gl y Ser Phe Phe Leu Ty r Ser Ly s Leu Thr Val As p Ly s
                                 325                  330                  335
              Ser Ar g Tr p Gl n Gl n Gl y As n Val Phe Ser Cy s Ser Val Met Hi s Gl u
                            340                     345                  350
              Al a Leu Hi s As n Hi s Ty r Thr Gl n Ly s Ser Leu Ser Leu Ser Pr o Gl y
                       355                     360                   365
                                                          Page 11

                                                                 502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ly s
              <210>    14
              <211>    1114
              <212>    DNA
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c pol y nuc l eot i de
<removed-apn>
              <400> 14
              at ggat gc aa t gaagagagg gc t c t gc t gt gt gc t gc t gc t gt gt ggagc agt c t t c gt t                 60
              t c gc c c ggc g c c gc t at ac t t ggt agat c a gaaac t c agg agt gt c t t t t t t t aat gc t a         120
              at t gggaaaa agac agaac c aat c aaac t g gt gt t gaac c gt gt t at ggt gac aaagat a                      180
              aac ggc ggc a t t gt t t t gc t ac c t ggaaga at at t t c t gg t t c c at t gaa t agt gaaac a            240
              aggt t gt t gg c t ggat gat a t c aac t gc t a t gac aggac t gat t gt gt ag aaaaaaaaga                   300
              c agc c c t gaa gt at at t t c t gt t gc t gt ga gggc aat at g t gt aat gaaa agt t t t c t t a           360
              t t t t c c ggag at ggaagt c a c ac agc c c ac t t c aaat c c a gt t ac ac c t a agc c ac c c ac         420
              c ggt ggt gga ac t c ac ac at gc c c ac c gt g c c c agc ac c t gaac t c c t gg ggggac c gt c            480
              agt c t t c c t c t t c c c c c c aa aac c c aagga c ac c c t c at g at c t c c c gga c c c c t gaggt    540
              c ac at gc gt g gt ggt ggac g t gagc c ac ga agac c c t gag gt c aagt t c a ac t ggt ac gt               600
              ggac ggc gt g gaggt gc at a at gc c aagac aaagc c gc gg gaggagc agt ac aac agc ac                        660
              gt ac c gt gt g gt c agc gt c c t c ac c gt c c t gc ac c aggac t ggc t gaat g gc aaggagt a              720
              c aagt gc aag gt c t c c aac a aagc c c t c c c agt c c c c at c gagaaaac c a t c t c c aaagc            780
              c aaagggc ag c c c c gagaac c ac aggt gt a c ac c c t gc c c c c at c c c ggg aggagat gac                840
              c aagaac c ag gt c agc c t ga c c t gc c t ggt c aaaggc t t c t at c c c agc g ac at c gc c gt           900
              ggagt gggag agc aat gggc agc c ggagaa c aac t ac aag ac c ac gc c t c c c gt gc t gga                    960
              c t c c gac ggc t c c t t c t t c c t c t at agc aa gc t c ac c gt g gac aagagc a ggt ggc agc a         1020
              ggggaac gt c t t c t c at gc t c c gt gat gc a t gaggc t c t g c ac aac c ac t ac ac gc agaa            1080
              gagc c t c t c c c t gt c t c c gg gt aaat gaga at t c                                                  1114
              <210>    15
              <211>    5
              <212>    PRT
              <213>    Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c pept i de
              <400> 15
              Thr Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                  5
              <210> 16
              <211> 5
              <212> PRT
                                                                       Page 12

                                                         502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              <213> Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c pept i de
              <400> 16
              Ser Gl y Gl y Gl y Gl y
              1                  5
              <210>   17
              <211>   343
<removed-apn>
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 17
              Met Val Ar g Al a Ar g Hi s Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Leu Cy s Leu Leu Leu Leu
              1                 5                        10                    15
              Leu Leu Cy s Gl n Phe Met Gl u As p Ar g Ser Al a Gl n Al a Gl y As n Cy s
                           20                     25                      30
              Tr p Leu Ar g Gl n Al a Ly s As n Gl y Ar g Cy s Gl n Val Leu Ty r Ly s Thr
                       35                       40                      45
              Gl u Leu Ser Ly s Gl u Gl u Cy s Cy s Ser Thr Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Thr Ser
                   50                     55                     60
              Tr p Thr Gl u Gl u As p Val As n As p As n Thr Leu Phe Ly s Tr p Met I l e
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Phe As n Gl y Gl y Al a Pr o As n Cy s I l e Pr o Cy s Ly s Gl u Thr Cy s Gl u
                                 85                        90                      95
              As n Val As p Cy s Gl y Pr o Gl y Ly s Ly s Cy s Ar g Met As n Ly s Ly s As n
                            100                      105                     110
              Ly s Pr o Ar g Cy s Val Cy s Al a Pr o As p Cy s Ser As n I l e Thr Tr p Ly s
                        115                     120                     125
              Gl y Pr o Val Cy s Gl y Leu As p Gl y Ly s Thr Ty r Ar g As n Gl u Cy s Al a
                   130                    135                     140
              Leu Leu Ly s Al a Ar g Cy s Ly s Gl u Gl n Pr o Gl u Leu Gl u Val Gl n Ty r
              145                    150                      155                    160
              Gl n Gl y Ar g Cy s Ly s Ly s Thr Cy s Ar g As p Val Phe Cy s Pr o Gl y Ser
                                  165                     170                    175
              Ser Thr Cy s Val Val As p Gl n Thr As n As n Al a Ty r Cy s Val Thr Cy s
                           180                   185                      190
              As n Ar g I l e Cy s Pr o Gl u Pr o Al a Ser Ser Gl u Gl n Ty r Leu Cy s Gl y
                        195                       200                    205
                                                               Page 13

                                                   502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              As n As p Gl y Val Thr Ty r Ser Ser Al a Cy s Hi s Leu Ar g Ly s Al a Thr
                   210                    215                    220
              Cy s Leu Leu Gl y Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Leu Al a Ty r Gl u Gl y Ly s Cy s I l e
              225                    230                     235                      240
              Ly s Al a Ly s Ser Cy s Gl u As p I l e Gl n Cy s Thr Gl y Gl y Ly s Ly s Cy s
                                 245                       250                     255
<removed-apn>
              Leu Tr p As p Phe Ly s Val Gl y Ar g Gl y Ar g Cy s Ser Leu Cy s As p Gl u
                            260                    265                    270
              Leu Cy s Pr o As p Ser Ly s Ser As p Gl u Pr o Val Cy s Al a Ser As p As n
                       275                    280                     285
              Al a Thr Ty r Al a Ser Gl u Cy s Al a Met Ly s Gl u Al a Al a Cy s Ser Ser
                   290                    295                     300
              Gl y Val Leu Leu Gl u Val Ly s Hi s Gl y Ser Cy s As n Ser I l e Ser Gl u
              305                   310                    315                     320
              As p Thr Gl u Gl u Gl u Gl u Gl u As p Gl u As p Gl n As p Ty r Ser Phe Pr o
                                 325                      330                     335
              I l e Ser Ser I l e Leu Gl u Tr p
                            340
              <210>   18
              <211>   317
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 18
              Met Val Ar g Al a Ar g Hi s Gl n Pr o Gl y Gl y Leu Cy s Leu Leu Leu Leu
              1                 5                        10                    15
              Leu Leu Cy s Gl n Phe Met Gl u As p Ar g Ser Al a Gl n Al a Gl y As n Cy s
                           20                     25                      30
              Tr p Leu Ar g Gl n Al a Ly s As n Gl y Ar g Cy s Gl n Val Leu Ty r Ly s Thr
                       35                       40                      45
              Gl u Leu Ser Ly s Gl u Gl u Cy s Cy s Ser Thr Gl y Ar g Leu Ser Thr Ser
                   50                     55                     60
              Tr p Thr Gl u Gl u As p Val As n As p As n Thr Leu Phe Ly s Tr p Met I l e
              65                      70                     75                    80
              Phe As n Gl y Gl y Al a Pr o As n Cy s I l e Pr o Cy s Ly s Gl u Thr Cy s Gl u
                                 85                        90                      95
              As n Val As p Cy s Gl y Pr o Gl y Ly s Ly s Cy s Ar g Met As n Ly s Ly s As n
                            100                      105                     110
                                                           Page 14

                                                      502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ly s Pr o Ar g Cy s Val Cy s Al a Pr o As p Cy s Ser As n I l e Thr Tr p Ly s
                        115                     120                     125
              Gl y Pr o Val Cy s Gl y Leu As p Gl y Ly s Thr Ty r Ar g As n Gl u Cy s Al a
                   130                    135                     140
              Leu Leu Ly s Al a Ar g Cy s Ly s Gl u Gl n Pr o Gl u Leu Gl u Val Gl n Ty r
              145                    150                      155                    160
<removed-apn>
              Gl n Gl y Ar g Cy s Ly s Ly s Thr Cy s Ar g As p Val Phe Cy s Pr o Gl y Ser
                                  165                     170                    175
              Ser Thr Cy s Val Val As p Gl n Thr As n As n Al a Ty r Cy s Val Thr Cy s
                           180                   185                      190
              As n Ar g I l e Cy s Pr o Gl u Pr o Al a Ser Ser Gl u Gl n Ty r Leu Cy s Gl y
                        195                       200                    205
              As n As p Gl y Val Thr Ty r Ser Ser Al a Cy s Hi s Leu Ar g Ly s Al a Thr
                   210                    215                    220
              Cy s Leu Leu Gl y Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Leu Al a Ty r Gl u Gl y Ly s Cy s I l e
              225                    230                     235                      240
              Ly s Al a Ly s Ser Cy s Gl u As p I l e Gl n Cy s Thr Gl y Gl y Ly s Ly s Cy s
                                 245                       250                     255
              Leu Tr p As p Phe Ly s Val Gl y Ar g Gl y Ar g Cy s Ser Leu Cy s As p Gl u
                            260                    265                    270
              Leu Cy s Pr o As p Ser Ly s Ser As p Gl u Pr o Val Cy s Al a Ser As p As n
                       275                    280                     285
              Al a Thr Ty r Al a Ser Gl u Cy s Al a Met Ly s Gl u Al a Al a Cy s Ser Ser
                   290                    295                     300
              Gl y Val Leu Leu Gl u Val Ly s Hi s Ser Gl y Ser Cy s As n
              305                   310                    315
              <210>   19
              <211>   63
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 19
              Gl y As n Cy s Tr p Leu Ar g Gl n Al a Ly s As n Gl y Ar g Cy s Gl n Val Leu
              1                   5                       10                       15
              Ty r Ly s Thr Gl u Leu Ser Ly s Gl u Gl u Cy s Cy s Ser Thr Gl y Ar g Leu
                            20                     25                     30
                                                           Page 15

                                                   502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ser Thr Ser Tr p Thr Gl u Gl u As p Val As n As p As n Thr Leu Phe Ly s
                      35                     40                       45
              Tr p Met I l e Phe As n Gl y Gl y Al a Pr o As n Cy s I l e Pr o Cy s Ly s
                   50                      55                       60
              <210>   20
              <211>   25
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
<removed-apn>
              <400> 20
              Gl u Thr Cy s Gl u As n Val As p Cy s Gl y Pr o Gl y Ly s Ly s Cy s Ar g Met
              1                  5                       10                       15
              As n Ly s Ly s As n Ly s Pr o Ar g Cy s Val
                             20                       25
              <210>   21
              <211>   26
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 21
              Ly s Thr Cy s Ar g As p Val Phe Cy s Pr o Gl y Ser Ser Thr Cy s Val Val
              1                  5                      10                    15
              As p Gl n Thr As n As n Al a Ty r Cy s Val Thr
                            20                       25
              <210>   22
              <211>   262
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 22
              Met Ar g Pr o Gl y Al a Pr o Gl y Pr o Leu Tr p Pr o Leu Pr o Tr p Gl y Al a
              1                  5                       10                      15
              Leu Al a Tr p Al a Val Gl y Phe Val Ser Ser Met Gl y Ser Gl y As n Pr o
                            20                    25                   30
              Al a Pr o Gl y Gl y Val Cy s Tr p Leu Gl n Gl n Gl y Gl n Gl u Al a Thr Cy s
                        35                      40                      45
              Ser Leu Val Leu Gl n Thr As p Val Thr Ar g Al a Gl u Cy s Cy s Al a Ser
                  50                   55                     60
              Gl y As n I l e As p Thr Al a Tr p Ser As n Leu Thr Hi s Pr o Gl y As n Ly s
              65                       70                     75                      80
              I l e As n Leu Leu Gl y Phe Leu Gl y Leu Val Hi s Cy s Leu Pr o Cy s Ly s
                                 85                    90                     95
              As p Ser Cy s As p Gl y Val Gl u Cy s Gl y Pr o Gl y Ly s Al a Cy s Ar g Met
                            100                     105                      110
                                                          Page 16

                                                      502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              Leu Gl y Gl y Ar g Pr o Ar g Cy s Gl u Cy s Al a Pr o As p Cy s Ser Gl y Leu
                       115                      120                      125
              Pr o Al a Ar g Leu Gl n Val Cy s Gl y Ser As p Gl y Al a Thr Ty r Ar g As p
                   130                    135                     140
              Gl u Cy s Gl u Leu Ar g Al a Al a Ar g Cy s Ar g Gl y Hi s Pr o As p Leu Ser
              145                     150                      155                     160
<removed-apn>
              Val Met Ty r Ar g Gl y Ar g Cy s Ar g Ly s Ser Cy s Gl u Hi s Val Val Cy s
                                165                      170                    175
              Pr o Ar g Pr o Gl n Ser Cy s Val Val As p Gl n Thr Gl y Ser Al a Hi s Cy s
                             180                   185                    190
              Val Val Cy s Ar g Al a Al a Pr o Cy s Val Pr o Ser Ser Pr o Gl y Gl n Gl u
                      195                      200                   205
              Leu Cy s Gl y As n As n As n Val Thr Ty r I l e Ser Ser Cy s Hi s Met Ar g
                  210                      215                    220
              Gl n Al a Thr Cy s Phe Leu Gl y Ar g Ser I l e Gl y Val Ar g Hi s Al a Gl y
              225                    230                     235                     240
              Ser Cy s Al a Gl y Thr Pr o Gl u Gl u Pr o Pr o Gl y Gl y Gl u Ser Al a Gl u
                                 245                     250                     255
              Gl u Gl u Gl u As n Phe Val
                             260
              <210>   23
              <211>   116
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 23
              I l e Leu Gl y Ar g Ser Gl u Thr Gl n Gl u Cy s Leu Phe Phe As n Al a As n
              1                   5                      10                    15
              Tr p Gl u Ly s As p Ar g Thr As n Gl n Thr Gl y Val Gl u Pr o Cy s Ty r Gl y
                             20                      25                     30
              As p Ly s As p Ly s Ar g Ar g Hi s Cy s Phe Al a Thr Tr p Ly s As n I l e Ser
                        35                       40                     45
              Gl y Ser I l e Gl u I l e Val Ly s Gl n Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p I l e As n
                   50                       55                       60
              Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Thr As p Cy s Val Gl u Ly s Ly s As p Ser Pr o Gl u Val
              65                      70                      75                      80
                                                           Page 17

                                                      502836321_1. t x t
<removed-date>
              Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Met Cy s As n Gl u Ly s Phe Ser Ty r
                                 85                      90                      95
              Phe Pr o Gl u Met Gl u Val Thr Gl n Pr o Thr Ser As n Pr o Val Thr Pr o
                            100                   105                    110
              Ly s Pr o Pr o Thr
                        115
<removed-apn>
              <210>   24
              <211>   115
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Homo s api ens
              <400> 24
              Gl y Ar g Gl y Gl u Al a Gl u Thr Ar g Gl u Cy s I l e Ty r Ty r As n Al a As n
              1                   5                       10                        15
              Tr p Gl u Leu Gl u Ar g Thr As n Gl n Ser Gl y Leu Gl u Ar g Cy s Gl u Gl y
                            20                      25                     30
              Gl u Gl n As p Ly s Ar g Leu Hi s Cy s Ty r Al a Ser Tr p Ar g As n Ser Ser
                        35                      40                      45
              Gl y Thr I l e Gl u Leu Val Ly s Ly s Gl y Cy s Tr p Leu As p As p Phe As n
                   50                     55                       60
              Cy s Ty r As p Ar g Gl n Gl u Cy s Val Al a Thr Gl u Gl u As n Pr o Gl n Val
              65                       70                     75                       80
              Ty r Phe Cy s Cy s Cy s Gl u Gl y As n Phe Cy s As n Gl u Ar g Phe Thr Hi s
                                 85                      90                      95
              Leu Pr o Gl u Al a Gl y Gl y Pr o Gl u Val Thr Ty r Gl u Pr o Pr o Pr o Thr
                            100                      105                    110
              Al a Pr o Thr
                        115
              <210>   25
              <211>   6
              <212>   PRT
              <213>   Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e
              <220>
              <223> Des c r i pt i on of Ar t i f i c i al Sequenc e: Sy nt het i c 6x Hi s t ag
              <400> 25
              Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s Hi s
              1                   5
                                                               Page 18

