  ABSTRACT
  Biomass (e.g., plant biomass, animal biomass, and municipal waste biomass) is processed to
  produce useful intermediates and products, such as energy, fuels, foods or materials. Systems,
  methods and equipment are described for upgrading process streams using electrodialysis or
5 electrodialysis reversal. Many potential lignocellulosic feedstocks are available today, including
  agricultural residues, woody biomass, municipal waste, oilseeds/cakes and seaweed, to name a
  few.

WO 2014/138600                                                             PCT/US2014/021815
                            UPGRADING PROCESS STREAMS
                     CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
     [0001]       This application claims priority from the following provisional applications:
     USSN 61/774,684, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,773, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
     61/774,731, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,735, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
     61/774,740, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,744, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
     61/774,746, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,750, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
     61/774,752, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,754, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
     61/774,775, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,780, filed March 8, 2013; USSN
     61/774,761, filed March 8, 2013; USSN 61/774,723, filed March 8, 2013; and USSN
     61/793,336, filed March 15, 2013. The full disclosure of each of these provisional
     applications is incorporated by reference herein.
                              BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
     [0002]       Many potential lignocellulosic feedstocks are available today, including
     agricultural residues, woody biomass, municipal waste, oilseeds/cakes and seaweed, to
     name a few. At present, these materials are often under-utilized, being used, for
     example, as animal feed, biocompost materials, burned in a co-generation facility or even
     landfilled.
     [0003]       Lignocellulosic biomass includes crystalline cellulose fibrils embedded in a
     hemicellulose matrix, surrounded by lignin. This produces a compact matrix that is
     difficult to access by enzymes and other chemical, biochemical and/or biological
     processes. Cellulosic biomass materials (e.g., biomass material from which the lignin
     has been removed) is more accessible to enzymes and other conversion processes, but
     even so, naturally-occurring cellulosic materials often have low yields (relative to
     theoretical yields) when contacted with hydrolyzing enzymes. Lignocellulosic biomass
     is even more recalcitrant to enzyme attack. Furthermore, each type of lignocellulosic
     biomass has its own specific composition of cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin.
                                                    1

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
                                               SUMMARY
     [0004]       Generally, the methods and equipment used for producing useful products
     from a biomass material are described herein. Generally, many methods include treating
     a recalcitrant biomass, e. g. treating with electron beams, and then biochemically and/or
     chemically processing the reduced recalcitrance material to a mixture of sugars, for
     example, glucose, xylose, arabinose, fructose, sugar alcohols, e. g. xylitol and other
     products. Salts (e.g., ions) generated during processing of the feedstock can be removed
     via the process of electrodialysis, e. g. common or standard electrodialysis (ED),
     electrodialysis reversal (EDR) and/or bipolar membrane electrodialysis (EDBM). The
     method of electrodialysis can help in removing the bulk salts from the sugar solution, or
     electrodialysis can be used to separate the organic acids from other compounds in a
     mixture. Prior to and/or after electrodialysis the biomass liquids can be also treated to
     remove other impurities and color.
     [0005]        In one aspect the invention features methods for removing and/or separating
     salts, partially ionized acids or fully ionized acids, from saccharified biomass liquids,
     such as including sugars and/or fermented liquids utilizing an electrodialysis system. The
     methods can therefor provide a processed solution (e.g., purified solution, upgraded
     process steam, purified process stream). Optionally, the electrodialysis system utilizes
     standard electrodialysis or electrodialysis reversal. Also optionally, the saccharified
     biomass liquids includes a reduced recalcitrance cellulosic or lignocellulosic material
     that has been saccharified. For example, saccharification can be done by utilizing one or
     more enzymes and/or one or more acids, such as sulfuric acid. For example,
     saccharification can be done by using an enzyme, using an acid, using an acid and then
     an enzyme, using an enzyme and then an acid or using an enzyme and an acid
     concurrently. Optionally, the cellulosic or lignocellulosic material has had its
     recalcitrance reduced by treatment with ionizing radiation (e.g., with between about 10
     and about 50 Mrad of radiation). For example, the ionizing radiation can be in the form
     of accelerated electrons.
     [0006]       In another embodiment the saccharified product is fermented and then
     electrodialysis is applied with or without purification. In this embodiment fermentation
     broth can often include a product from converting one of the sugars to specific product
     and another sugar that remains unconverted during the fermentation. The fermentation
     broth can be subject to electrodialysis to remove salts that it been formed. Then the
     product can be isolated by using a bipolar electrodialysis operation.
                                                    2

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     [0007]        In some implementation, while utilizing the electrodialysis system, a voltage
     of between about 10 and 600V across ion selective membranes can be applied while
     flowing the saccharified biomass liquids and/or the fermentation product liquids past the
     membranes. Optionally, the voltage can be between 25 and 500 V. Additionally, the
     voltage can be 40 to 450 V. These voltages can be across multiple membranes.
     [0008]        In some implementations, the saccharified biomass liquids can be further
     processed with a fermentation step to produce fermentation products, such as an alcohol,
     organic acids. Optionally, the saccharified biomass liquids are liquids wherein a
     fermentation product (e.g., an alcohol such as ethanol, propanol or butanol or an organic
     acid such as acetic acid, propionic acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid, butyric acid and
     lactic acid) has been removed therefrom by electrodialysis or other isolation means (e.g.,
     by distillation).
     [0009]        In some implementations, the ionic strength of the saccharified liquid prior to
     electrodialysis is between about 500 and about 50,000 pS/cm (microSiemens/cm), and
     wherein an ionic strength of the saccharified biomass liquids after utilizing the
     electrodialysis system (e.g., the processed solution, purified solution, upgraded process
     steam or purified process stream) is between 1 and 100 pS/cm. Optionally the salts,
     partially ionized acids or fully ionized acids removed during electrodialysis include at
     least one element selected from P, K, Mg, Na, Ca, S, Mn, Al, Zn, Si, Cl and Fe. For
     example, the ions can be phosphates, sulfates, chlorides, silicates, aluminates, K', Na',
         2+     3+     2+     2+    3+      2+
     Mg     , Al+, Zn     , Mn , Fe    , Fe    , and mixtures of these ions.
     [0010]        Alternatively or additionally, the saccharified biomass liquids include
     saccharification residues (e.g., cells, proteinaceous, lignin derived material and/or
     colored bodies). In a similar manner the saccharified biomass is fermented to obtain a
     fermentation product stream which had fermentation residues (e.g., cells, proteinaceous,
     lignin derived material and/or colored bodies). In some implementations, the method can
     further include purifying the saccharified biomass liquids or fermentation product stream
     before, during and/or after utilizing the electrodialysis system. For example, purifying by
     a method selected from any one of the following methods: chromatography, filtration,
     centrifugation, precipitation, distillation, complexation and combinations thereof. When
     precipitation is utilized in purifying, one or more solvents or non-solvents (e.g.,
     methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, acetone, ethyl ether and tetrahydrofuran, and mixtures of
     these) can be used to precipitate one or more undesired components, such as an impurity.
     Some implementations include decolorizing the saccharified biomass liquids or
     fermentation product streams with a decolorizing agent before, during and/or after
                                                         3

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     utilizing the electrodialysis system. For example, decolorizing utilizing any one of
     powdered carbon, granular carbon, extruded carbon, bone char carbon, bead activated
     carbon, styrenic resins, acrylic resins, magnetic resins, decolorizing clays, bentonite,
     attapulgite, montmorillonite, hormite and combinations of these. For example mixing the
     saccharified biomass liquids or fermentation product stream and filtering away the
     solids, or flowing (e.g., filtering) the saccharified biomass liquids these solids. The
     solution after decolorization can be less than about 100 color units (e.g., less than 50, less
     than about 40, less than about 30, less than about 20, less than about 10, less than about 5
     and even less than about 1).
     [0011]       In some implementations, the saccharified biomass liquids include one or
     more saccharides, e.g., a monodisaccharide, an oligosaccharides and/or a polysaccharide.
     Optionally the saccharified biomass liquids include a sugar selected from xylose,
     glucose, arabinose, fructose and mixtures of these. Optionally, the sugar is xylose and the
     purity of the processed solution (e.g., purified solution, upgraded process steam, purified
     process stream) after utilizing the electrodialysis system is at least about 80 wt.% xylose
     (e.g., the wt.% of the xylose to the total solids/dissolved solids in solution as determined
     analytically by HPLC). For example, after electrodialysis the xylose purity is at least 85
     wt.%, at least 90 wt.%, at least 95 wt.%, at least 96 wt.%, at least 97 wt.% or even at
     least 98 wt.%). Optionally, the sugar includes arabinose, and the purity of the solution
     after utilizing the electrodialysis system is about 0.5 wt.% arabinose (e.g., about 1 to 0
     wt.%, about I to 0.1 wt.%, about 0.8 to 0.1 wt.%, about 0.8 to 0.2 wt.%, about 0.5 to 1.0
     wt.%, about 0.1 to 0.5 wt.%).
     [0012]       These saccharified biomass liquids with sugars present can be fermented to
     produce additional biomass liquids. Examples of the fermentation include adding
     microorganisms that selectively convert one sugar in preference to another. For instance,
     in a saccharified biomass liquid with glucose and xylose present a microorganism can be
     chosen which can selectively convert glucose to ethanol while leaving the xylose
     basically unreacted. In a similar manner glucose can be selectively converted to D- or L
     lactic acid.
     [0013]       Removing the ions (e.g., salts, fully or partially dissociated acids) from the
     sugar solutions derived from cellulosic and lignocellulosic biomass liquids is
     advantageous because it increases the purity of the processed solution (e.g., purified
     solution, upgraded process steam, purified process stream) and assists in subsequent
     separation of the various product steams such as sugars. This ultimately can aid in further
     transformations of these process streams into high value produces such as sugars, sugar
                                                     4

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     alcohols (e.g., xylose, arabinose, xylitol and sorbitol). For example, it can be easier to
     crystalize sugars and other products without salts present. Other features and advantages
     of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description, and from the
     claims.
     [0014]       Implementations of the embodiments can optionally include one or more of
     the following summarized features. In some implementations, the selected features can
     be applied or utilized in any order while in other implementations a specific selected
     sequence is applied or utilized. Individual features can be applied or utilized more than
     once in any sequence and even continuously. In addition, an entire sequence, or a portion
     of a sequence, of applied or utilized features can be applied or utilized once, repeatedly
     or continuously in any order. In some optional implementations, the features can be
     applied or utilized with different, or where applicable, the same set or varied,
     quantitative or qualitative parameters as determined by a person skilled in the art. For
     example, parameters of the features such as size, individual dimensions (e.g., length,
     width, height), location of, degree (e.g., to what extent such as the degree of
     recalcitrance), duration, frequency of use, density, concentration, intensity and speed can
     be varied or set, where applicable, as determined by a person of skill in the art.
     [0015]       Features, for example, include: a method for removing salts, partially ionized
     acids or fully ionized acids, from saccharified biomass liquids utilizing an electrodialysis
     system; a method that utilizes electrodialysis; electrodialysis reversal; a method that
     utilizes bipolar membrane electrodialysis treating a liquid, where the liquid includes a
     reduced recalcitrance, cellulosic or lignocellulosic material that has been saccharified;
     treating a liquid, where the liquid includes a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material that has
     had its recalcitrance reduced by treatment with ionizing radiation; treating a liquid,
     where the liquid includes a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material that has had its
     recalcitrance reduced by treatment with accelerated electrons; treating a liquid, where the
     liquid includes a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material that has been saccharified utilizing
     one or more enzymes; treating a liquid, where the liquid includes a cellulosic or
     lignocellulosic material that has been saccharified utilizing one or more acids; treating a
     liquid, where the liquid includes a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material that has been
     saccharified utilizing sulfuric acid; an ionic strength of the saccharified biomass liquids
     prior to electrodialysis is between about 500 and about 50,000 pS/cm, and an ionic
     strength of the saccharified biomass liquids after electrodialysis is between 1 and 100
     pS/cm; salts, partially ionized acids or fully ionized acids that include the element
     phosphorous are removed utilizing an electrodialysis system; salts, partially ionized acids
                                                    5

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     or fully ionized acids that include the element potassium are removed utilizing an
     electrodialysis system; salts, partially ionized acids or fully ionized acids that include the
     element magnesium are removed utilizing an electrodialysis system; salts, partially
     ionized acids or fully ionized acids that include the element sodium are removed
     utilizing an electrodialysis system; salts, partially ionized acids or fully ionized acids
     including the element calcium are removed utilizing an electrodialysis system; salts,
     partially ionized acids or fully ionized acids that include the element S are removed
     utilizing an electrodialysis system; salts, partially ionized acids or fully ionized acids that
     include the element oxygen are removed utilizing an electrodialysis system; salts,
     partially ionized acids or fully ionized acids that include the element manganese are
     removed utilizing an electrodialysis system; salts, partially ionized acids or fully ionized
     acids that include the element aluminum are removed utilizing an electrodialysis system;
     salts, partially ionized acids or fully ionized acids that include the element zinc are
     removed utilizing an electrodialysis system; salts, partially ionized acids or fully ionized
     acids that include the element silicon are removed utilizing an electrodialysis system;
     salts, partially ionized acids or fully ionized acids that include the element chloride are
     removed utilizing an electrodialysis system; salts, partially ionized acids or fully ionized
     acids that include the element Fe are removed utilizing an electrodialysis system;
     purifying a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing chromatography; purifying a
     saccharified biomass liquids utilizing filtration; purifying a saccharified biomass liquids
     utilizing centrifugation; purifying a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing precipitation;
     purifying a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing distillation; purifying a saccharified
     biomass liquids utilizing complexation; purifying a saccharified biomass liquids by the
     addition of one or more solvents or non-solvents to precipitate one or more undesired
     components; purifying a saccharified biomass liquids by the addition of methanol to
     precipitate one or more undesired component; purifying a saccharified biomass liquids
     by the addition of ethanol to precipitate one or more undesired components; purifying a
     saccharified biomass liquids by the addition of isopropanol to precipitate one or more
     undesired components; purifying a saccharified biomass liquids by the addition of
     acetone to precipitate one or more undesired components; purifying a saccharified
     biomass liquids by the addition of ethyl ether to precipitate one or more undesired
     components; purifying a saccharified biomass liquids by the addition of tetrahydrofuran
     to precipitate one or more undesired components; treating a saccharified biomass liquids
     that includes one or more fermentation products; treating a saccharified biomass liquids
     that includes liquids that have had a fermentation product and the fermentation product
                                                     6

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     has been distilled therefrom; treating a saccharified biomass liquids that includes liquids
     that have had an alcohol fermentation product and the alcohol has been distilled
     therefrom; treating a saccharified biomass liquids that includes liquids that have had an
     ethanol fermentation product and the ethanol has been distilled therefrom; decolorizing a
     saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent; decolorizing a saccharified
     biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent including powdered carbon; decolorizing a
     saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent including granular carbon;
     decolorizing a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent including
     extruded carbon; decolorizing a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing
     agent including bone char carbon; decolorizing a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a
     decolorizing agent including bead activated carbon; decolorizing a saccharified biomass
     liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent including styrenic resins; decolorizing a
     saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent including acrylic resins;
     decolorizing a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent including
     magnetic resins; decolorizing a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing
     agent including decolorizing clays; a method that includes decolorizing a saccharified
     biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent including bentonite; a method that includes
     decolorizing a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent including
     attapulgite; decolorizing a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent
     including montmorillonite; decolorizing a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a
     decolorizing agent including hormite; decolorizing a saccharified biomass liquids
     utilizing a decolorizing agent and after decolorizing the color of the solution is less than
     about 100 color units; decolorizing a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing
     agent and after decolorizing the color of the solution is less than about 10 color units;
     decolorizing a saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent and after
     decolorizing the color of the solution is less than about 5 color units; treating a
     saccharified biomass liquid utilizing a electrodialysis system and applying a voltage of
     between about 10 and 600V across ion selective membranes of the electrodialysis system
     while flowing the saccharified biomass liquids past the membranes; treating a
     saccharified biomass liquids that includes one or more saccharides; treating a
     saccharified biomass liquids that includes xylose; treating a saccharified biomass liquids
     that includes glucose; treating a saccharified biomass liquids that includes arabinose;
     treating a saccharified biomass liquids that includes fructose; purifying a saccharified
     liquids utilizing an electrodialysis system, wherein the liquids includes xylose and the
     purity of the xylose after utilizing the electrodialysis system is at least about 80 wt.%;
                                                     7

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     purifying a saccharified liquids utilizing an electrodialysis system, wherein the liquids
     includes arabinose and the purity of the arabinose after utilizing the electrodialysis
     system is at least about 0 to 1 wt.%.
     [0016]      Alternately, the saccharified biomass may be fermented and then
     electrodialysis steps applied. An initial electrodialysis step can remove salts especially
     inorganic salts, followed by a second electrodialysis step using a bipolar electrolysis step
     to isolate valuable ionizable organic products from the fermentation system. Subsequent
     purification steps as described above may be used for further purify the ionizable organic
     products.
     [0017]      Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the
     following detailed description, and from the claims.
                                  DESCRIPTION OF DRAWINGS
     [0018]      FIG. 1A is a diagram showing an electrodialysis process.
     [0019]      FIG. 1B is a diagrammatic view of an exemplary electrodialysis system.
     [0020]      FIG. 2 is a flow chart showing the steps of purifying (treating) the biomass
     before subjecting it to electrodialysis.
     [0021]      FIG. 3 is a plot showing conductivity vs time during an electrodialysis
     process.
     [0022]      FIG. 4 is flow chart showing the steps of purifying an ionizable organic
     product after a fermentation step; specifically D- or L-lactic acid.
     [0023]      FIG. 5 is a flow chart showing steps for using two electrodialysis steps for
     isolating an organic acid.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
     [0024]      Using the methods and systems described herein, cellulosic and
     lignocellulosic feedstock materials, for example that can be sourced from biomass (e.g.,
     plant biomass, animal biomass, paper, and municipal waste biomass) and that are often
     readily available but difficult to process, can be converted to solutions containing sugars
     such as xylose and glucose, which can in some cases be further processed to produce
     other useful products (e.g., alcohols such as ethanol and butanol and organic acids such
     as acetic acid, propionic acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid, butyric acid and lactic acid).
     Methods and systems are discussed herein for removing unwanted components, such as
                                                    8

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     salts (e.g. ions), and acids (e.g., organic acids) from these biomass liquids by
     conventional electrodialysis, electrodialysis reversal and/or bipolar membrane
     electrodialysis.
     [0025]       Processes for manufacturing sugar solutions and products derived therefrom
     are described herein. These processes may include, for example, optionally mechanically
     treating a cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic feedstock. Before and/or after this treatment,
     the feedstock can be treated with another treatment, for example, irradiation, steam
     explosion, pyrolysis, sonication, chemical treatment (e.g., with and acid or a base) and/or
     oxidation to reduce, or further reduce its recalcitrance.
     [0026]       A solution rich in sugar can be produced by saccharifying the treated and
     irradiated feedstock by the addition of one or more enzymes. Many other products or
     biomass liquids may be derived from the sugar solution, for example, by fermentation to
     an alcohol such as ethanol, organic acids such as lactic acid or by reduction to a sugar
     alcohol such as xylitol, sorbitol etc. The solution also includes several unwanted ions, the
     bulk of which can be removed by electrodialysis. Before or after electrodialysis, the
     saccharification or fermentation product can be further purified.
     [0027]       Electrodialysis is a membrane separation process wherein the membrane is
     permeable to small species (e.g., ions) but not to larger species (e.g., molecules such as
     sugars). Electrodialysis differs from pressure driven membrane processes by utilizing
     electrical potential as the main driving force in matter separation making it useful for
     charged particles, for example, ions. Since the charged particles are mobile, the
     separation media transfers the electric current with relatively low resistance,
     electrodialysis is generally carried out in aqueous solutions. In the electrodialysis
     process, the liquid is made to flow through a separation cell (e.g., an area, a tube or
     chamber) enclosed by cation and anion selective membranes. In addition, while flowing
     the process liquid through the separation cell, the process liquid is subjected to an
     electrical potential using positively and negatively charged electrodes. The separation
     cell is generally configured so that the cations can migrate through the cation selective
     membrane towards the negatively polarized electrode, and the anions migrate through
     the anion selective membrane towards the positively charged electrode. The
     arrangement of the cell ensures that ions are concentrated outside of the cell, and can be
     flowed away, while the ion depleted fluids can be collected. The process fluid can be
     circulated through the process cell repeatedly, for example, until a solution with the
     desired concentration of ions is be obtained. Multiple separation cells can be used in
     series or in parallel to achieve the optimum process results.
                                                     9

WO 2014/138600                                                             PCT/US2014/021815
     [0028]       A subset of electrodialysis is using bipolar membranes to separate materials.
     Bipolar membranes consist of an anion-permeable membrane and a cation permeable
     membrane laminated together. When this composite structure is oriented such that the
     cation-exchange layer faces the anode it is possible, by imposing a potential field across
     the membrane, to spit water into proton and hydroxyl ions. This results in the production
     of acidic and basic solutions at the surfaces of the bipolar membranes. Multiple bipolar
     membranes along with other ion permeable membranes can be placed between a single
     pair of electrodes in an electrodialysis stack for the production of acid and base from a
     neutral salt. For example, this strategy - - bipolar membrane electrodialysis may be used
     to isolate lactic acid or another organic acid from a fermentation product mixture. The
     lactic acid or other organic acids may be converted to its salt form processed through
     conventional electrodialysis followed by processing with bipolar membrane
     electrodialysis to produce purified lactic acid (and/or organic acids) in its acid form.
     [0029]       FIG. 1A is a diagram showing how electrodialysis operates on a feed stream
     (e.g., containing sugars and salts). Feed stream 10 and makeup water 20 (brine makeup)
     enter the system. A potential 30 (DC voltage) is applied to the feed and makeup water
     which are separated by an ion selective membrane. The potential drives the ions
     preferentially into the makeup water. A demineralized product 40 exits the system,
     where the ions have been reduced as compared to the feed process stream. The ions that
     have been removed from the feed are brought out of the system as the brine blowdown
     50. The process can be repeated, e.g. feeding the demineralized product back into the
     electrodialysis system to further remove ions (e.g., transfer them to brine blowdown).
     The process can be repeated until the desired reduction in ions is achieved, as will be
     further described below.
     [0030]       One possible arrangement of a membrane configuration in an electrodialysis
     system that can be utilized to purify saccharified lignocellulosic material is shown by
     FIG 1B. This system utilizes alternating cation selective membranes 2101 and anion
     selective membranes 2102. Spacers (not shown) are placed between every membrane to
     ensure there is room between membranes for the process liquids to flow. The electrodes,
     2103 and 2104, are not in physical contact with the process fluid but rather are in
     physical contact with a special conductive solution (electrolyte). The conductive solution
     serves the purpose of keeping unwanted reactions from occurring at the electrode. For
     example, a sulfuric solution splits water into hydrogen gas at the cathode and oxygen gas
     at the anode, both of which can be removed without damaging the electrodes or other
                                                    10

WO 2014/138600                                                                  PCT/US2014/021815
     components. The electrodes are therefore in electrical contact with the process fluids
     through the electrolyte.
     [0031]        Therefore, the arrangement as described above creates a series of flow
     channels (2105 and 2106) through which the process fluid (e.g., the sugar solution
     produced from a saccharified lignocellulosic material) is made to flow (e.g., by the
     action of a pump) while an electrical potential is applied to the flowing solution. Under
     operation, for example, the cations in every second flow channel 2105 flow towards the
     cathode 2103 and are able to migrate through the adjacent cation selective membrane
     2101 into the next flow channel 2106. The cations are then trapped in flow channels
     2105, unable to migrate through the anion selective membranes 2102. Conversely, the
     anions in the flow channels 2105 are able to migrate towards the anode 2104 through the
     anion selective membranes 2102 and into alternating flow channels 2106 where they are
     trapped, unable to migrate further, since they encounter the cation selective membranes
     2101. In this arrangement, the cations and anions migrate out of every second flow
     channel 2105, such that the process fluid in the flow channels 2105 ends up substantially
     free of ions, while the process fluid in the remaining channels 2106 contains a high
     concentration of both cations and anions. The result is that by collecting the outlet of the
     flow channels 2105 and 2106 separately, a depleted-ion sugar solution (from flow
     channels 2105) and a separate enriched-ion sugar solution (from flow channels 2106) are
     obtained. Increasing the number of ion exchange membranes and flow channels greatly
     improves the efficiency of the system. For example, 10, 20, 50, 100 or even more
     membranes can be used.
     [0032]        In addition to sugars and products such as alcohols, the solutions derived
     from biomass by the processes such as saccharification and fermentation (described
     herein) can include various materials, for example, suspended or dissolved compounds
     and/or materials. For example, solutions can include enzymes (e.g., parts of enzymes,
     active enzymes, denatured enzymes), amino acids, nutrients, live cells, dead cells,
     cellular debris (e.g., lysed cells, yeast extract), acids, bases, salts (e.g., halides, sulfates,
     and phosphates, alkali, alkali earth, transition metal salts), partial hydrolysis products
     (e.g., cellulose and hemicellulose fragments), lignin, lignin residues, inorganic solids
     (e.g., siliceous materials, clays, carbon black, metals), remnants of saccharified and/or
     fermented biomass, and combinations thereof. The sugar solution may undergo
     purification processes, which may include a simulated bed chromatography, rotary drum
     filtration, filtration and or decolorization prior to being subjected to electrodialysis.
     Optionally, these impurities can be removed or reduced (e.g., decreased in concentration)
                                                     11

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     prior to subjecting the biomass solution to electrodialysis. In particular, it may be
     beneficial to remove impurities (e.g., polymers, proteins, precipitants) that can coat,
     plug, fill or otherwise hinder the function of the electrodialysis membranes. In general,
     electrodialysis is subject to membrane fouling from particles and organic materials, for
     example, the organic impurities that can lead to color as previously discussed. Therefore,
     electrodialysis is preferably done after removing these materials. If fouling does occur,
     the membranes can be regenerated running the process in reverse by reversing the
     direction of constant current driving the separation and switching the dilution and
     concentration chambers.
     [0033]       A possible process for purifying biomass liquids, e. g. product liquids from
     saccharified feedstock or fermentation liquids before introducing it to electrodialysis, to
     avoid this fouling, is shown in FIG. 2. The saccharified feedstock is concentrated 210
     under vacuum to remove solvents. In case of post-fermented feedstock, solvents
     including ethanol could be removed under vacuum or distilled away from the bulk of the
     solution and collected, leaving behind a solution (e.g., distillate bottom) comprising
     sugars where at least about 80 wt.% of the sugars are xylose (e.g., at least 85 wt.%, at
     least 90 wt.%, at least 95 wt.%, at least 96 wt.%, at least 97 wt.% or even at least 98
     wt.%) and about 0.5 wt.% of the sugars are arabinose (e.g., about 1 to 0 wt.%, about 1 to
     0.1 wt.%, about 0.8 to 0.1 wt.%, about 0.8 to 0.2 wt.%, about 0.5 to 1.0 wt.%, about 0.1
     to 0.5 wt.%).
     [0034]       Some impurities (e.g., bi-products) are then precipitated 215 from the
     solution. This can be done by dilution with methanol, which induces precipitation of
     some impurities. The precipitates can be removed 220, for example, by use of a
     centrifuged and/or filtration. The filtered solution may then be decolorized 225 with
     activated carbon. The decolorizing agent is removed by filtration 230. A concentration
     step, 235 includes placing the solution under vacuum which removes methanol. The
     resulting solution can then be diluted with deionized water and subjected to
     electrodialysis 240 to remove the salts.
     [0035]       A possible process for purifying an ionizable organic product (e.g., D- or L
     lactic acid, succinic acid, tartaric acid) starts with saccharifying a biomass before
     fermentation and then introducing it to two steps of electrodialysis, as shown in FIG. 4.
     The saccharified feedstock is concentrated (410) under vacuum to remove solvents.
     Following saccharification the biomass is fermented (415) where the microorganism
     converts one sugar to a desired product while leaving other sugars unconverted. Prior to
     the electrodialysis steps the solids are removed from the fermentation product (420). The
                                                      12

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     first electrodialysis is done to remove salts, especially inorganic salts (425). Then a
     bipolar membrane electrodialysis (430) is done to isolate the ionizable organic product
     (in this case, D- or L-lactic acid) from the unreacted sugars such as xylose. Subsequent
     purification (435) of the ionizable organic product by simulated moving bed
     chromatography or similar isolation processes can lead to an isolated product of
     sufficient purity for its intended use.
     [0036]       Pertaining to FIG 6 two electrodialysis steps are shown as a purification
     strategy. To the fermentation product liquid mixture which has had solids removed from
     it (510), is added a base if needed to convert the organic acid to its salt form (520) and
     electrodialysis processing is done to separate the nonionic sugars from the salts
     (including the organic acid salts). Then the salt is processed in the bipolar membrane
     electrodialysis unit (530) in which the organic acid salt is converted to its neutralized
     form and isolated from the salts.
     [0037]       Also present in the sugar solution, for example, prior to electrodialysis and/or
     some other purification method as described herein is applied, there can be intact or
     denatured enzymes utilized in the processing, or compounds derived from these enzymes
     (e.g., proteinaceous material such as proteins and amino acids). These can be
     dissolved/and or precipitated and suspended solids, can subsequently be removed by
     filtration or centrifugation. In some cases, the enzymes can be present in a functioning
     state and are denatured, e.g., by adding an acid, a base, heating, adding a denaturing
     agent. Denaturing the enzyme can facilitate its removal, e.g., by the methods described
     herein. The sugar solutions can have, for example, up to about 10 wt.% enzymes (e.g., up
     to 9 wt. %,up to 8 wt. %,up to 5 wt. %,up to 2 wt. %,up to 1 wt. %, between about 0.1
     and 5 wt. %, between about 1 wt. % and 5 wt. %,between about 2 wt. % and 5 wt. %,
     between about 0.1 wt. % and 1 wt. %,between about 0.01 wt. % and 1 wt. %, between
     about 0.001 wt.% and 0.1 wt.%). Wherein the wt. % of enzymes is understood as the wt.
     % of proteinaceous material in the aqueous solution.
     [0038]       Some cellulolytic enzymes utilized for saccharification of a biomass operate
     best in the acidic region, e.g., between about pH 2 and 6 (e.g., between about 3 and 6,
     between about, 4 and 6, between about 4 and 5). The sugar solutions can be subjected to
     electrodialysis at these acidic pH, or optionally the pH can be adjusted up or down after
     saccharification and/or saccharification can be done at a higher or lower pH. Adjustment
     of the pH adds to the concentrations of ions in the solution. However, electrodialysis
     works well at pH values selected from a broad range.
                                                    13

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     [0039]       Solid impurities may be removed easily via filtration or centrifugation. Some
     of the dissolved impurities maybe precipitated out by treating the solution with solvents
     such as methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, acetone, ethyl ether and tetrahydrofuran and then
     removing the precipitates via filtration or centrifugation.
     [0040]       The sugar solutions derived from the processes described herein and used in
     the electrodialysis systems can include non-sugar suspended or dissolved solids present
     at concentrations up to about 50 wt.%, for example between about 1 and 50 wt.%, 2 and
     40 wt. %, 3 and 25 wt.%, 5 and 25 wt.%, 40 and 50 wt.%, 30 and 40 wt.%, 10 and 20
     wt.%, 1 and 5 wt.%, 10 and 40 wt.%, less than about 50 wt.%, less than about 40 wt.%,
     less than about 30 wt.%, less than about 20 wt.%, less than about 10 wt.%, less than
     about 5 wt.%, less than about 1 wt.%, less than about 0.5 wt.%, less than about 0.01
     wt.%. These solutions can have high turbidity, for example, at least about 5
     nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) (e.g., at least about 10 NTU, at least about 50 NTU,
     at least about 100 NTU, at least about 100 NTU, at least about 200 NTU, at least about
     300 NTU, at least about 400 NTU and even greater than about 500 NTU). In some cases
     the solids are completely or partially removed prior to the solution being subjected to
     electrodialysis. For example, the solids can be removed by filtration, centrifuging,
     settling, floatation and combinations of these. In some cases the solids are derived from a
     previously soluble material that has been precipitated, for example, an enzyme that has
     been denatured. After removing the solids the turbidity of the solutions can be reduced
     by up to about 500 NTU (e.g., reduced by up to about 100 NTU, reduced by up to about
     50 NTU, reduced by up to about 5 NTU).
     [0041]       In addition to being turbid, the sugar solutions produced from the processes
     described herein can be colored due to colored impurities (e.g., colored bodies) such as
     aromatic chromophores. For example, some metal ions and polyphenols and lignin
     derived products produced or released during the processing of a lignocellulosic biomass
     can be highly colored. The solutions can be used directly in the electrodialysis system
     described herein or can be partially or completely decolorized prior to being used. For
     example, the colored impurities can be filtered out of the solution, destroyed (e.g., by
     chemical decomposition) and/or precipitated out of the solution. Some possible color
     removing agents that can be used are powdered, granular, extruded, bone char or bead
     activated carbon; styrenic, acrylic or magnetic resin; decolorizing clays such as
     bentonite, attapulgite, montmorillonite, hormite and combinations of these. After treating
     the solutions with these color removing agents, the color of the solution is less than about
     200 (e.g., less than 100, less than 50, less than about 40, less than about 30, less than
                                                    14

WO 2014/138600                                                                  PCT/US2014/021815
     about 20, less than about 10, less than about 5 and even less than about 1) as measured
     by the Platinum-Cobalt method (ASTM Test Method D1209).
     [0042]      The ionic strength of the biomass derived sugar solutions can be highly
     dependent on the source of the biomass as well as the processing of the biomass as
     described herein. The solutions can be used directly or selectively or partially de-ionized
     prior to being used in the electrodialysis systems described herein.
     [0043]      An advantage of electrodialysis over, for example, ion exchange
     chromatography, for removing ions in the processes described herein is throughput
     capacity. Ion exchange columns can become saturated quickly, requiring time consuming
     and costly regeneration cycles, while electrodialysis can run continuously without
     requiring regeneration, even with high conductivity process liquids. For example,
     solutions to be processed after the distillation steps described herein can have
     conductivities of greater than about 500 p S/cm (e.g., greater than about 1000 p S/cm,
     greater than about 2000 pS/cm, greater than about 3000 pS/cm, greater than about 4000
     p S/cm, greater than about 5000 p S/cm, greater than about 6000 p S/cm, greater than
     about 7000 pS/cm, greater than about 8000 pS/cm, greater than about 9000 pS/cm,
     greater than about 10,000 pS/cm) or, for example, they can have conductivities between
     about 500 and 100,000 pS/cm (e.g., between about 500 and 50,000 pS/cm, between
     about 1000 and 20,000 pS/cm, between about 1000 and 20,000 pS/cm, between about
     1000 and 15,000 pS/cm, between about 5000 and 20,000 pS/cm, between about 5000
     and 10,000 pS/cm) and can be treated effectively by electrodialysis. For example, the
     conductivities after processing can be reduced by at least 10 fold (e.g., at least 20 fold, at
     least 30 fold, at least 50 fold, at least 100 fold, at least 500 fold, at least 1000 fold). After
     electrodialysis the conductivities can be between about 1-100 p S/cm (e.g., between about
     1-90 pS/cm, between about 1-80 pS/cm, between about 1-50 pS/cm, between about 1-30
     pS/cm, between about 1-20 pS/cm, between about 2-60 pS/cm, between about 2-40
     pS/cm, between about 2-20 pS/cm, between about 5-100 pS/cm, between about 5-50
     pS/cm, between about 5-25 pS/cm, between about 9-90 pS/cm, between about 9-50
     pS/cm, between about 9-25 pS/cm, between about 9-12 pS/cm, between about 15-60
     pS/cm, between about 15-40 pS/cm, between about 15-30 pS/cm, between about 15-20
     pS/cm, between about 27-100 pS/cm, between about 27-50 pS/cm, between about 27-30
     pS/cm). Once the bulk of the ions have been removed by electrodialysis, a cation
     exchange column can be used. This final column is often designated as a "finishing"
     column.
                                                     15

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     [0044]      Electrodialysis and/or cation exchange can be effective to remove a variety of
     ions, for example, from biomass liquids such as saccharified biomass, fermentation
     liquids. In particular, the cations include alkali metals, alkali earths, transition metals,
     lanthanides and actinides, for example, lithium, sodium, potassium, magnesium, calcium,
     strontium, barium, scandium, titanium, chromium, manganese, iron, nickel, copper, zinc,
     aluminum, lanthanum, cerium, uranium. Cationic and anionic sulfides and oxides might
     also be present, and can be removed by the methods described. Anions may include
     fluoride, chloride, bromide, iodide, sulfate, sulfides, phosphate, nitrate, carbonate,
     borates (e.g., B0 3 3-), chlorates, arsinates and aluminates. In particular, Na*, and Cl- are
     present in high concentrations and a high amount, for example about at least 50 %, of
     these ions should be removed (e.g., about at least 80%, about at least 85%, about at least
     90%, about at least 95%, about at least 98%, about at least 99%). For example, chlorine
     can comprise about 1/3 of all ions present and can act as a xylose degradation catalyst.
     Other ions can be fouling to subsequent processes such as hydrogenation.
     [0045]      Electrodialysis and electrodialysis reversal can also be useful for removing
     acids. For example, mineral acids such as HCL, H 2 SO 4 , H 3PO 4 , HNO 3 can be treated.
     Organic acids can also be treated, for example, acetic acid, formic acid, propionic acid,
     butyric acid, lactic acid and the like. The acids can be partially or fully de-ionized.
     Bipolar membrane electrodialysis may be used for isolation of these organic acids
     [0046]      An electrodialysis unit that can be utilized in the methods, with equipment
     and with systems described herein is described in "Electrodialysis Cell Unit PCCell ED
     64 0 02", by PCCell (Germany) Verions Jan 2006 pages 1-12; the entire disclosure of
     which is incorporated by reference and attachment in the appendix. For example, the
     PCCell DE 64 described on pg. 10 of that document can be utilized to deionized
     saccharified materials described herein.
     [0047]      Some description of Electrodialysis Reversal that can be utilized in the
     methods, with equipment and with systems described herein is described in "High Water
     Recovery with Electrodialysis Reversal", by GE Power and Water, Technical paper
     1071EN.doc, March 2010, pages 1-5; the full disclosure of which is incorporated by
     reference and attachment in the appendix. For example, Electrodialysis Reversal as
     described in the figure on page 1 of that document (figure 1:EDR flow diagram)
     describes a system that can be utilized to process saccharified materials and waste
     streams derived from saccharified materials described herein.
     [0048]      Electrodialysis and Electrodialysis Reversal is described in "Electrodiolysis
     (ED) and Electrodialysis Reversal (EDR)", U.S Department of the Interior, Bureau of
                                                      16

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
     Reclamation, pages 1-4; the entire of which is incorporated by reference and attachment
     in the appendix. For example an treatment train using all or parts of this system (e.g.,
     including raw water pumps, debris screens, rapid mix, slow mix flocculator, basin or
     clarifying, gravity filters and EDR membranes) as described on page 3 of that document
     can be utilized to process saccharified biomass and/or saccharified biomass waste
     streams.
     [0049]       Bipolar membrane electrodialysis equipment is available from for instance,
     Ameridia Somerset NJ; USA. The process was described by Ameridia in Membrane and
     Separation Technology News March 2006 the entire of which is incorporated by
     reference and attachment in the appendix.
     [0050]       Some more details and reiterations of processes for treating a feedstock that
     can be utilized, for example, with the embodiments already discussed above, or in other
     embodiments, are described in the following disclosures.
                           SYSTEMS FOR TREATING A FEEDSTOCK
     [0051]       Purification systems, methods and equipment (e.g., electrodialysis) can be
     applied to materials that have been processed as described above and also as described
     anywhere herein.
     [0052]       For example, processes for the conversion of a feedstocks to sugars and other
     products can include, for example, optionally physically pre-treating the feedstock, e.g.,
     to reduce its size, before and/or after this treatment, optionally, treating the feedstock to
     reduce its recalcitrance (e.g., by irradiation), and saccharifying the feedstock to form a
     sugar solution (e.g., as previously described and reiterated and expanded here).
     Saccharification can be performed by mixing a dispersion of the feedstock in a liquid
     medium, e.g., water with an enzyme, as will be discussed in detail below. During or
     after saccharification, the mixture (e.g., if saccharification is to be partially or completely
     performed en route) or solution can be transported, e.g., by pipeline, railcar, truck or
     barge, to a manufacturing plant. At the plant, the solution can be bioprocessed, e.g.,
     fermented, to produce a desired product or intermediate, which can then be processed
     further, e.g., by distillation, electrodialysis. The individual processing steps, materials
     used and examples of products and intermediates that may be formed will be described
     in detail below. Therefore, in addition to these methods, purification systems, methods
     and equipment (e.g., simulated moving bed chromatography) can be applied, for
     example, as an additional processing step.
                                                      17

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
                                     RADIATION TREATMENT
     [0053]       The feedstock can be treated with radiation to modify its structure to reduce
     its recalcitrance. Such treatment can, for example, reduce the average molecular weight
     of the feedstock, change the crystalline structure of the feedstock, and/or increase the
     surface area and/or porosity of the feedstock. Radiation can be by, for example, electron
     beam, ion beam, 100 nm to 280 nm ultraviolet (UV) light, gamma or X-ray radiation.
     Radiation treatments and systems for treatments are discussed in U.S. Patent 8,142,620,
     and U.S. Patent Application Series No. 12/417,73 1, the entire disclosures of which are
     incorporated herein by reference.
     [0054]       Each form of radiation ionizes the biomass via particular interactions, as
     determined by the energy of the radiation. Heavy charged particles primarily ionize
     matter via Coulomb scattering; furthermore, these interactions produce energetic
     electrons that may further ionize matter. Alpha particles are identical to the nucleus of a
     helium atom and are produced by the alpha decay of various radioactive nuclei, such as
     isotopes of bismuth, polonium, astatine, radon, francium, radium, several actinides, such
     as actinium, thorium, uranium, neptunium, curium, californium, americium, and
     plutonium. Electrons interact via Coulomb scattering and bremsstrahlung radiation
     produced by changes in the velocity of electrons.
     [0055]       When particles are utilized, they can be neutral (uncharged), positively
     charged or negatively charged. When charged, the charged particles can bear a single
     positive or negative charge, or multiple charges, e.g., one, two, three or even four or
     more charges. In instances in which chain scission is desired to change the molecular
     structure of the carbohydrate containing material, positively charged particles may be
     desirable, in part, due to their acidic nature. When particles are utilized, the particles can
     have the mass of a resting electron, or greater, e.g., 500, 1000, 1500, or 2000 or more
     times the mass of a resting electron. For example, the particles can have a mass of from
     about 1 atomic unit to about 150 atomic units, e.g., from about 1 atomic unit to about 50
     atomic units, or from about I to about 25, e.g., 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 12 or 15 atomic units.
     [0056]       Gamma radiation has the advantage of a significant penetration depth into a
     variety of material in the sample.
     [0057]       In embodiments in which the irradiating is performed with electromagnetic
     radiation, the electromagnetic radiation can have, e.g., energy per photon (in electron
     volts) of greater than 102 eV, e.g., greater than 103, 104, 105, 106, or even greater than
                                                    18

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
     10 7 eV. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has energy per photon of
     between 104 and 107 , e.g., between 105 and 106 eV. The electromagnetic radiation can
     have a frequency of, e.g., greater than 1016 Hz, greater than 1017 Hz, 1018, 1019, 1020, or
     even greater than 1021 Hz. In some embodiments, the electromagnetic radiation has a
     frequency of between 1018 and      1022 Hz, e.g., between 1019 to 1021 Hz.
     [0058]      Electron bombardment may be performed using an electron beam device that
     has a nominal energy of less than 10 MeV, e.g., less than 7 MeV, less than 5 MeV, or
     less than 2 MeV, e.g., from about 0.5 to 1.5 MeV, from about 0.8 to 1.8 MeV, or from
     about 0.7 to 1 MeV. In some implementations the nominal energy is about 500 to 800
     keV.
     [0059]      The electron beam may have a relatively high total beam power (the
     combined beam power of all accelerating heads, or, if multiple accelerators are used, of
     all accelerators and all heads), e.g., at least 25 kW, e.g., at least 30, 40, 50, 60, 65, 70, 80,
     100, 125, or 150 kW. In some cases, the power is even as high as 500 kW, 750 kW, or
     even 1000 kW or more. In some cases the electron beam has a beam power of 1200 kW
     or more, e.g., 1400, 1600, 1800, or even 3000 kW.
     [0060]      This high total beam power is usually achieved by utilizing multiple
     accelerating heads. For example, the electron beam device may include two, four, or
     more accelerating heads. The use of multiple heads, each of which has a relatively low
     beam power, prevents excessive temperature rise in the material, thereby preventing
     burning of the material, and also increases the uniformity of the dose through the
     thickness of the layer of material.
     [0061]      It is generally preferred that the bed of biomass material has a relatively
     uniform thickness. In some embodiments the thickness is less than about 1 inch (e.g.,
     less than about 0.75 inches, less than about 0.5 inches, less than about 0.25 inches, less
     than about 0.1 inches, between about 0.1 and 1 inch, between about 0.2 and 0.3 inches).
     [0062]      It is desirable to treat the material as quickly as possible. In general, it is
     preferred that treatment be performed at a dose rate of greater than about 0.25 Mrad per
     second, e.g., greater than about 0.5, 0.75, 1, 1.5, 2, 5, 7, 10, 12, 15, or even greater than
     about 20 Mrad per second, e.g., about 0.25 to 2 Mrad per second. Higher dose rates
     allow a higher throughput for a target (e.g., the desired) dose. Higher dose rates generally
     require higher line speeds, to avoid thermal decomposition of the material. In one
     implementation, the accelerator is set for 3 MeV, 50 mA beam current, and the line
     speed is 24 feet/minute, for a sample thickness of about 20 mm (e.g., comminuted corn
     cob material with a bulk density of 0.5 g/cm 3).
                                                      19

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     [0063]       In some embodiments, electron bombardment is performed until the material
     receives a total dose of at least 0.1 Mrad, 0.25 Mrad, 1 Mrad, 5 Mrad, e.g., at least 10,
     20, 30 or at least 40 Mrad. In some embodiments, the treatment is performed until the
     material receives a dose of from about 10 Mrad to about 50 Mrad, e.g., from about 20
     Mrad to about 40 Mrad, or from about 25 Mrad to about 30 Mrad. In some
     implementations, a total dose of 25 to 35 Mrad is preferred, applied ideally over a couple
     of passes, e.g., at 5 Mrad/pass with each pass being applied for about one second.
     Cooling methods, systems and equipment can be used before, during, after and in
     between radiations, for example utilizing a cooling screw conveyor and/or a cooled
     vibratory conveyor.
     [0064]       Using multiple heads as discussed above, the material can be treated in
     multiple passes, for example, two passes at 10 to 20 Mrad/pass, e.g., 12 to 18 Mrad/pass,
     separated by a few seconds of cool-down, or three passes of 7 to 12 Mrad/pass, e.g., 5 to
     20 Mrad/pass, 10 to 40 Mrad/pass, 9 to 11 Mrad/pass. As discussed herein, treating the
     material with several relatively low doses, rather than one high dose, tends to prevent
     overheating of the material and also increases dose uniformity through the thickness of
     the material. In some implementations, the material is stirred or otherwise mixed during
     or after each pass and then smoothed into a uniform layer again before the next pass, to
     further enhance treatment uniformity.
     [0065]       In some embodiments, electrons are accelerated to, for example, a speed of
     greater than 75 percent of the speed of light, e.g., greater than 85, 90, 95, or 99 percent of
     the speed of light.
     [0066]       In some embodiments, any processing described herein occurs on
     lignocellulosic material that remains dry as acquired or that has been dried, e.g., using
     heat and/or reduced pressure. For example, in some embodiments, the cellulosic and/or
     lignocellulosic material has less than about 25 wt. %retained water, measured at 25'C
     and at fifty percent relative humidity (e.g., less than about 20 wt.%, less than about 15
     wt.%, less than about 14 wt.%, less than about 13 wt.%, less than about 12 wt.%, less
     than about 10 wt.%, less than about 9 wt.%, less than about 8 wt.%, less than about 7
     wt.%, less than about 6 wt.%, less than about 5 wt.%, less than about 4 wt.%, less than
     about 3 wt.%, less than about 2 wt.%, less than about 1 wt.%, or less than about 0.5
     wt.%.
     [0067]       In some embodiments, two or more ionizing sources can be used, such as two
     or more electron sources. For example, samples can be treated, in any order, with a
     beam of electrons, followed by gamma radiation and UV light having wavelengths from
                                                    20

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
     about 100 nm to about 280 nm. In some embodiments, samples are treated with three
     ionizing radiation sources, such as a beam of electrons, gamma radiation, and energetic
     UV light. The biomass is conveyed through the treatment zone where it can be
     bombarded with electrons.
     [0068]       It may be advantageous to repeat the treatment to more thoroughly reduce the
     recalcitrance of the biomass and/or further modify the biomass. In particular, the process
     parameters can be adjusted after a first (e.g., second, third, fourth or more) pass
     depending on the recalcitrance of the material. In some embodiments, a conveyor can be
     used which includes a circular system where the biomass is conveyed multiple times
     through the various processes described above. In some other embodiments, multiple
     treatment devices (e.g., electron beam generators) are used to treat the biomass multiple
     (e.g., 2, 3, 4 or more) times. In yet other embodiments, a single electron beam generator
     may be the source of multiple beams (e.g., 2, 3, 4 or more beams) that can be used for
     treatment of the biomass.
     [0069]       The effectiveness in changing the molecular/supermolecular structure and/or
     reducing the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing biomass depends on the
     electron energy used and the dose applied, while exposure time depends on the power
     and dose. In some embodiments, the dose rate and total dose are adjusted so as not to
     destroy (e.g., char or bum) the biomass material. For example, the carbohydrates should
     not be damaged in the processing so that they can be released from the biomass intact,
     e.g. as monomeric sugars.
     [0070]       In some embodiments, the treatment (with any electron source or a
     combination of sources) is performed until the material receives a dose of at least about
     0.05 Mrad, e.g., at least about 0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, 10.0, 15, 20, 25, 30,
     40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 125, 150, 175, or 200 Mrad. In some embodiments, the
     treatment is performed until the material receives a dose of between 0.1-100 Mrad, 1
     200, 5-200, 10-200, 5-150, 50-150 Mrad, 5-100, 5-50, 5-40, 10-50, 10-75, 15-50, 20-35
     Mrad.
     [0071]       In some embodiments, relatively low doses of radiation are utilized, e.g., to
     increase the molecular weight of a cellulosic or lignocellulosic material (with any
     radiation source or a combination of sources described herein). For example, a dose of at
     least about 0.05 Mrad, e.g., at least about 0.1 Mrad or at least about 0.25, 0.5, 0.75. 1.0,
     1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, or at least about 5.0 Mrad. In some embodiments, the
     irradiation is performed until the material receives a dose of between 0.1 Mrad and 2.0
     Mrad, e.g., between 0.5 Mrad and 4.0 Mrad or between 1.0 Mrad and 3.0 Mrad.
                                                      21

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     [0072]      It also can be desirable to irradiate from multiple directions, simultaneously
     or sequentially, in order to achieve a desired degree of penetration of radiation into the
     material. For example, depending on the density and moisture content of the material,
     such as wood, and the type of radiation source used (e.g., gamma or electron beam), the
     maximum penetration of radiation into the material may be only about 0.75 inch. In such
     a case, a thicker section (up to 1.5 inch) can be irradiated by first irradiating the material
     from one side, and then turning the material over and irradiating from the other side.
     Irradiation from multiple directions can be particularly useful with electron beam
     radiation, which irradiates faster than gamma radiation but typically does not achieve as
     great a penetration depth.
                               RADIATION OPAQUE MATERIALS
     [0073]      The radiation step can include processing a material in a vault and/or bunker
     that is constructed using radiation opaque materials. In some implementations, the
     radiation opaque materials are selected to be capable of shielding the components from
     X-rays with high energy (short wavelength), which can penetrate many materials. One
     important factor in designing a radiation shielding enclosure is the attenuation length of
     the materials used, which will determine the required thickness for a particular material,
     blend of materials, or layered structure. The attenuation length is the penetration
     distance at which the radiation is reduced to approximately l/e (e = Euler's number)
     times that of the incident radiation. Although virtually all materials are radiation opaque
     if thick enough, materials containing a high compositional percentage (e.g., density) of
     elements that have a high Z value (atomic number) have a shorter radiation attenuation
     length and thus if such materials are used a thinner, lighter shielding can be provided.
     Examples of high Z value materials that are used in radiation shielding are tantalum and
     lead. Another important parameter in radiation shielding is the halving distance, which
     is the thickness of a particular material that will reduce gamma ray intensity by 50%.
     As an example for X-ray radiation with an energy of 0.1 MeV the halving thickness is
     about 15.1 mm for concrete and about 2.7 mm for lead, while with an X-ray energy of 1
     MeV the halving thickness for concrete is about 44.45 mm and for lead is about 7.9 mm.
     Radiation opaque materials can be materials that are thick or thin so long as they can
     reduce the radiation that passes through to the other side. Thus, if it is desired that a
     particular enclosure have a low wall thickness, e.g., for light weight or due to size
     constraints, the material chosen should have a sufficient Z value and/or attenuation
                                                    22

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
     length so that its halving length is less than or equal to the desired wall thickness of the
     enclosure.
     [0074]      In some cases, the radiation opaque material may be a layered material, for
     example, having a layer of a higher Z value material, to provide good shielding, and a
     layer of a lower Z value material to provide other properties (e.g., structural integrity,
     impact resistance, etc.). In some cases, the layered material may be a "graded-Z"
     laminate, e.g., including a laminate in which the layers provide a gradient from high-Z
     through successively lower-Z elements. As previously described herein, in some cases
     the radiation opaque materials can be interlocking blocks, for example, lead and/or
     concrete blocks can be supplied by NELCO Worldwide (Burlington, MA), and
     reconfigurable vaults can be utilized.
     [0075]      A radiation opaque material can reduce the radiation passing through a
     structure (e.g., a wall, door, ceiling, enclosure, a series of these or combinations of these)
     formed of the material by about at least about 10 %, (e.g., at least about 20%, at least
     about 30%, at least about 40%, at least about 50%, at least about 60%, at least about
     70%, at least about 80%, at least about 90%, at least about 95%, at least about 96%, at
     least about 97%, at least about 98%, at least about 99%, at least about 99.9%, at least
     about 99.99%, at least about 99.999%) as compared to the incident radiation. Therefore,
     an enclosure made of a radiation opaque material can reduce the exposure of
     equipment/system/components by the same amount. Radiation opaque materials can
     include stainless steel, metals with Z values above 25 (e.g., lead, iron), concrete, dirt,
     sand and combinations thereof. Radiation opaque materials can include a barrier in the
     direction of the incident radiation of at least about 1mm (e.g., 5 mm, 10mm, 5 cm, 10
     cm, 100cm, Im, 10 m).
                                       RADIATION SOURCES
     [0076]      The type of radiation determines the kinds of radiation sources used as well as
     the radiation devices and associated equipment. The methods, systems and equipment
     described herein, for example, for treating materials with radiation, can utilize sources as
     described herein as well as any other useful sources.
     [0077]      Sources of gamma rays include radioactive nuclei, such as isotopes of cobalt,
     calcium, technetium, chromium, gallium, indium, iodine, iron, krypton, samarium,
     selenium, sodium, thallium, and xenon.
                                                    23

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     [0078]       Sources of X-rays include electron beam collision with metal targets, such as
     tungsten or molybdenum or alloys, or compact light sources, such as those produced
     commercially by Lyncean.
     [0079]       Alpha particles are identical to the nucleus of a helium atom and are produced
     by the alpha decay of various radioactive nuclei, such as isotopes of bismuth, polonium,
     astatine, radon, francium, radium, several actinides, such as actinium, thorium, uranium,
     neptunium, curium, californium, americium, and plutonium.
     [0080]       Sources for ultraviolet radiation include deuterium or cadmium lamps.
     [0081]       Sources for infrared radiation include sapphire, zinc, or selenide window
     ceramic lamps.
     [0082]       Sources for microwaves include klystrons, Slevin type RF sources, or atom
     beam sources that employ hydrogen, oxygen, or nitrogen gases.
     [0083]       Accelerators used to accelerate the particles (e.g., electrons or ions) can be
     DC (e.g., electrostatic DC or electrodynamic DC), RF linear, magnetic induction linear
     or continuous wave. For example, various irradiating devices may be used in the
     methods disclosed herein, including field ionization sources, electrostatic ion separators,
     field ionization generators, thermionic emission sources, microwave discharge ion
     sources, recirculating or static accelerators, dynamic linear accelerators, van de Graaff
     accelerators, Cockroft Walton accelerators (e.g., PELLETRON@ accelerators), LINACS,
     Dynamitrons (e.g., DYNAMITRON@ accelerators), cyclotrons, synchrotrons, betatrons,
     transformer-type accelerators, microtrons, plasma generators, cascade accelerators, and
     folded tandem accelerators. For example, cyclotron type accelerators are available from
     IBA, Belgium, such as the RHODOTRONTM system, while DC type accelerators are
     available from RDI, now IBA Industrial, such as the DYNAMITRON@. Other suitable
     accelerator systems include, for example: DC insulated core transformer (ICT) type
     systems, available from Nissin High Voltage, Japan; S-band LINACs, available from L3
     PSD (USA), Linac Systems (France), Mevex (Canada), and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
     (Japan); L-band LINACs, available from Jotron Industries (Canada); and ILU-based
     accelerators, available from Budker Laboratories (Russia). Ions and ion accelerators are
     discussed in Introductory Nuclear Physics, Kenneth S. Krane, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
     (1988), Krsto Prelec, FIZIKA B 6 (1997) 4, 177-206, Chu, William T., "Overview of
     Light-Ion Beam Therapy", Columbus-Ohio, ICRU-IAEA Meeting, 18-20 March 2006,
     Iwata, Y. et al., "Alternating-Phase-Focused IH-DTL for Heavy-Ion Medical
     Accelerators", Proceedings of EPAC 2006, Edinburgh, Scotland, and Leitner, C.M. et
     al., "Status of the Superconducting ECR Ion Source Venus", Proceedings of EPAC 2000,
                                                    24

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     Vienna, Austria. Some particle accelerators and their uses are disclosed, for example, in
     U.S. Pat. No. 7,931,784 to Medoff, the complete disclosure of which is incorporated
     herein by reference.
     [0084]       Electrons may be produced by radioactive nuclei that undergo beta decay,
     such as isotopes of iodine, cesium, technetium, and iridium. Alternatively, an electron
     gun can be used as an electron source via thermionic emission and accelerated through
     an accelerating potential. An electron gun generates electrons, which are then
     accelerated through a large potential (e.g., greater than about 500 thousand, greater than
     about 1 million, greater than about 2 million, greater than about 5 million, greater than
     about 6 million, greater than about 7 million, greater than about 8 million, greater than
     about 9 million, or even greater than 10 million volts) and then scanned magnetically in
     the x-y plane, where the electrons are initially accelerated in the z direction down the
     accelerator tube and extracted through a foil window. Scanning the electron beams is
     useful for increasing the irradiation surface when irradiating materials, e.g., a biomass,
     that is conveyed through the scanned beam. Scanning the electron beam also distributes
     the thermal load homogenously on the window and helps reduce the foil window rupture
     due to local heating by the electron beam. Window foil rupture is a cause of significant
     down-time due to subsequent necessary repairs and re-starting the electron gun.
     [0085]       Various other irradiating devices may be used in the methods disclosed
     herein, including field ionization sources, electrostatic ion separators, field ionization
     generators, thermionic emission sources, microwave discharge ion sources, recirculating
     or static accelerators, dynamic linear accelerators, van de Graaff accelerators, and folded
     tandem accelerators. Such devices are disclosed, for example, in U.S. Pat. No. 7,931,784
     to Medoff, the complete disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [0086]       A beam of electrons can be used as the radiation source. A beam of electrons
     has the advantages of high dose rates (e.g., 1, 5, or even 10 Mrad per second), high
     throughput, less containment, and less confinement equipment. Electron beams can also
     have high electrical efficiency (e.g., 80%), allowing for lower energy usage relative to
     other radiation methods, which can translate into a lower cost of operation and lower
     greenhouse gas emissions corresponding to the smaller amount of energy used. Electron
     beams can be generated, e.g., by electrostatic generators, cascade generators, transformer
     generators, low energy accelerators with a scanning system, low energy accelerators with
     a linear cathode, linear accelerators, and pulsed accelerators.
     [0087]       Electrons can also be more efficient at causing changes in the molecular
     structure of carbohydrate-containing materials, for example, by the mechanism of chain
                                                   25

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     scission. In addition, electrons having energies of 0.5-10 MeV can penetrate low density
     materials, such as the biomass materials described herein, e.g., materials having a bulk
     density of less than 0.5 g/cm 3 , and a depth of 0.3-10 cm. Electrons as an ionizing
     radiation source can be useful, e.g., for relatively thin piles, layers or beds of materials,
     e.g., less than about 0.5 inch, e.g., less than about 0.4 inch, 0.3 inch, 0.25 inch, or less
     than about 0.1 inch. In some embodiments, the energy of each electron of the electron
     beam is from about 0.3 MeV to about 2.0 MeV (million electron volts), e.g., from about
     0.5 MeV to about 1.5 MeV, or from about 0.7 MeV to about 1.25 MeV. Methods of
     irradiating materials are discussed in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 AL, filed
     October 18, 2011, the entire disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.
     [0088]       Electron beam irradiation devices may be procured commercially or built. For
     example elements or components such inductors, capacitors, casings, power sources,
     cables, wiring, voltage control systems, current control elements, insulating material,
     microcontrollers and cooling equipment can be purchased and assembled into a device.
     Optionally, a commercial device can be modified and/or adapted. For example, devices
     and components can be purchased from any of the commercial sources described herein
     including Ion Beam Applications (Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium), NHV Corporation
     (Japan), the Titan Corporation (San Diego, CA), Vivirad High Voltage Corp (Billerica,
     MA) and/or Budker Laboratories (Russia). Typical electron energies can be 0.5 MeV, 1
     MeV, 2 MeV, 4.5 MeV, 7.5 MeV, or 10 MeV. Typical electron beam irradiation device
     power can be 1 kW, 5 kW, 10 kW, 20 kW, 50 kW, 60 kW, 70 kW, 80 kW, 90 kW, 100
     kW, 125 kW, 150 kW, 175 kW, 200 kW, 250 kW, 300 kW, 350 kW, 400 kW, 450 kW,
     500 kW, 600 kW, 700 kW, 800 kW, 900 kW or even 1000 kW. Accelerators that can be
     used include NHV irradiators medium energy series EPS-500 (e.g., 500 kV accelerator
     voltage and 65, 100 or 150 mA beam current), EPS-800 (e.g., 800 kV accelerator voltage
     and 65 or 100 mA beam current), or EPS-1000 (e.g., 1000 kV accelerator voltage and 65
     or 100 mA beam current). Also, accelerators from NHV's high energy series can be
     used such as EPS-1500 (e.g., 1500 kV accelerator voltage and 65 mA beam current),
     EPS-2000 (e.g., 2000 kV accelerator voltage and 50 mA beam current), EPS-3000 (e.g.,
     3000 kV accelerator voltage and 50 mA beam current) and EPS-5000 (e.g., 5000 and 30
     mA beam current).
     [0089]       Tradeoffs in considering electron beam irradiation device power
     specifications include cost to operate, capital costs, depreciation, and device footprint.
     Tradeoffs in considering exposure dose levels of electron beam irradiation would be
     energy costs and environment, safety, and health (ESH) concerns. Typically, generators
                                                     26

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     are housed in a vault, e.g., of lead or concrete, especially for production from X-rays that
     are generated in the process. Tradeoffs in considering electron energies include energy
     costs.
     [0090]      The electron beam irradiation device can produce either a fixed beam or a
     scanning beam. A scanning beam may be advantageous with large scan sweep length
     and high scan speeds, as this would effectively replace a large, fixed beam width.
     Further, available sweep widths of 0.5 m, 1 m, 2 m or more are available. The scanning
     beam is preferred in most embodiments describe herein because of the larger scan width
     and reduced possibility of local heating and failure of the windows.
                                  ELECTRON GUNS - WINDOWS
     [0091]      The extraction system for an electron accelerator can include two window
     foils. The cooling gas in the two foil window extraction system can be a purge gas or a
     mixture, for example, air, or a pure gas. In one embodiment the gas is an inert gas such
     as nitrogen, argon, helium and or carbon dioxide. It is preferred to use a gas rather than a
     liquid since energy losses to the electron beam are minimized. Mixtures of pure gas can
     also be used, either pre-mixed or mixed in line prior to impinging on the windows or in
     the space between the windows. The cooling gas can be cooled, for example, by using a
     heat exchange system (e.g., a chiller) and/or by using boil off from a condensed gas (e.g.,
     liquid nitrogen, liquid helium). Window foils are described in PCT/US2013/64332 filed
     October 10, 2013 the full disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.
           HEATING AND THROUGHPUT DURING RADIATION TREATMENT
     [0092]      Several processes can occur in biomass when electrons from an electron beam
     interact with matter in inelastic collisions. For example, ionization of the material, chain
     scission of polymers in the material, cross linking of polymers in the material, oxidation
     of the material, generation of X-rays ("Bremsstrahlung") and vibrational excitation of
     molecules (e.g. phonon generation). Without being bound to a particular mechanism, the
     reduction in recalcitrance can be due to several of these inelastic collision effects, for
     example, ionization, chain scission of polymers, oxidation and phonon generation. Some
     of the effects (e.g., especially X-ray generation), necessitate shielding and engineering
     barriers, for example, enclosing the irradiation processes in a concrete (or other radiation
     opaque material) vault. Another effect of irradiation, vibrational excitation, is equivalent
                                                    27

WO 2014/138600                                                             PCT/US2014/021815
     to heating up the sample. Heating the sample by irradiation can help in recalcitrance
     reduction, but excessive heating can destroy the material, as will be explained below.
     [0093]      The adiabatic temperature rise (AT) from adsorption of ionizing radiation is
     given by the equation: AT = D/Cp : where D is the average dose in kGy, Cp is the heat
     capacity in J/g 0C, and AT is the change in temperature in 0 C. A typical dry biomass
     material will have a heat capacity close to 2. Wet biomass will have a higher heat
     capacity dependent on the amount of water since the heat capacity of water is very high
     (4.19 J/g 0 C). Metals have much lower heat capacities, for example, 304 stainless steel
     has a heat capacity of 0.5 J/g 0C. The temperature change due to the instant adsorption of
     radiation in a biomass and stainless steel for various doses of radiation is shown below.
     Calculated Temperature increase for biomass and stainless steel.
     Dose (Mrad)          Estimated Biomass AT ("C)            Steel AT ("C)
     10                    50                                  200
     50                   250, Decomposition                   1000
     100                   500, Decomposition                  2000
     150                  750, Decomposition                   3000
     200                   1000, Decomposition                 4000
     [0094]      High temperatures can destroy and or modify the biopolymers in biomass so
     that the polymers (e.g., cellulose) are unsuitable for further processing. A biomass
     subjected to high temperatures can become dark, sticky and give off odors indicating
     decomposition. The stickiness can even make the material hard to convey. The odors can
     be unpleasant and be a safety issue. In fact, keeping the biomass below about 200 0 C has
     been found to be beneficial in the processes described herein (e.g., below about 190 0 C,
     below about 180 0 C, below about 170 0 C, below about 160 0 C, below about 150 0 C, below
     about 140 0 C, below about 130 0 C, below about 120 0 C, below about 1 100 C, between
     about 60 0 C and 180 0 C, between about 60 0 C and 160 0 C, between about 60 0 C and 150 0 C,
     between about 60 0 C and 140 0C, between about 60 0 C and 130 0 C, between about 60 0 C
     and 120 0 C, between about 80 0 C and 180 0 C, between about 1000 C and 180 0 C, between
     about 120 0 C and 180 0 C, between about 140 0 C and 180 0 C, between about 160 0 C and
     180 0 C, between about 100 0C and 140 0 C, between about 80 0 C and 120 0 C).
     [0095]      It has been found that irradiation above about 10 Mrad is desirable for the
     processes described herein (e.g., reduction of recalcitrance). A high throughput is also
     desirable so that the irradiation does not become a bottle neck in processing the biomass.
                                                   28

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     The treatment is governed by a Dose rate equation: M = FP/D-time, where M is the mass
     of irradiated material (kg), F is the fraction of power that is adsorbed (unit less), P is the
     emitted power (kW=Voltage in MeV x Current in mA), time is the treatment time (see)
     and D is the adsorbed dose (kGy). In an exemplary process where the fraction of
     adsorbed power is fixed, the Power emitted is constant and a set dosage is desired, the
     throughput (e.g., M, the biomass processed) can be increased by increasing the
     irradiation time. However, increasing the irradiation time without allowing the material
     to cool, can excessively heat the material as exemplified by the calculations shown
     above. Since biomass has a low thermal conductivity (less than about 0.1 Wm-'K-1), heat
     dissipation is slow, unlike, for example, metals (greater than about 10 Wm-K-1 ) which
     can dissipate energy quickly as long as there is a heat sink to transfer the energy to.
                               ELECTRON GUNS - BEAM STOPS
     [0096]       In some embodiments the systems and methods include a beam stop (e.g., a
     shutter). For example, the beam stop can be used to quickly stop or reduce the
     irradiation of material without powering down the electron beam device. Alternatively
     the beam stop can be used while powering up the electron beam, e.g., the beam stop can
     stop the electron beam until a beam current of a desired level is achieved. The beam stop
     can be placed between the primary foil window and a secondary foil window. For
     example, the beam stop can be mounted so that it is movable, that is, so that it can be
     moved into and out of the beam path. Even partial coverage of the beam can be used, for
     example, to control the dose of irradiation. The beam stop can be mounted to the floor,
     to a conveyor for the biomass, to a wall, to the radiation device (e.g., at the scan horn), or
     to any structural support. Preferably the beam stop is fixed in relation to the scan horn so
     that the beam can be effectively controlled by the beam stop. The beam stop can
     incorporate a hinge, a rail, wheels, slots, or other means allowing for its operation in
     moving into and out of the beam. The beam stop can be made of any material that will
     stop at least 5% of the electrons, e.g., at least 10%, 20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, at
     least 80%, 85%, 90%, 91%, 92%, 93%, 94%, 95%, 96%, 97%, 98%, 99% or even about
     100% of the electrons.
     [0097]       The beam stop can be made of a metal including, but not limited to, stainless
     steel, lead, iron, molybdenum, silver, gold, titanium, aluminum, tin, or alloys of these, or
     laminates (layered materials) made with such metals (e.g., metal-coated ceramic, metal
     coated polymer, metal-coated composite, multilayered metal materials).
                                                     29

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     [0098]       The beam stop can be cooled, for example, with a cooling fluid such as an
     aqueous solution or a gas. The beam stop can be partially or completely hollow, for
     example with cavities. Interior spaces of the beam stop can be used for cooling fluids
     and gases. The beam stop can be of any shape, including flat, curved, round, oval,
     square, rectangular, beveled and wedged shapes.
     [0099]       The beam stop can have perforations so as to allow some electrons through,
     thus controlling (e.g., reducing) the levels of radiation across the whole area of the
     window, or in specific regions of the window. The beam stop can be a mesh formed, for
     example, from fibers or wires. Multiple beam stops can be used, together or
     independently, to control the irradiation. The beam stop can be remotely controlled, e.g.,
     by radio signal or hard wired to a motor for moving the beam into or out of position.
                                            BEAM DUMPS
     [00100]      The embodiments disclosed herein can also include a beam dump when
     utilizing a radiation treatment. A beam dump's purpose is to safely absorb a beam of
     charged particles. Like a beam stop, a beam dump can be used to block the beam of
     charged particles. However, a beam dump is much more robust than a beam stop, and is
     intended to block the full power of the electron beam for an extended period of time.
     They are often used to block the beam as the accelerator is powering up.
     [00101]      Beam dumps are also designed to accommodate the heat generated by such
     beams, and are usually made from materials such as copper, aluminum, carbon,
     beryllium, tungsten, or mercury. Beam dumps can be cooled, for example, using a
     cooling fluid that can be in thermal contact with the beam dump.
                                      BIOMASS MATERIALS
     [00102]      Lignocellulosic materials include, but are not limited to, wood, particle board,
     forestry wastes (e.g., sawdust, aspen wood, wood chips), grasses, (e.g., switchgrass,
     miscanthus, cord grass, reed canary grass), grain residues, (e.g., rice hulls, oat hulls,
     wheat chaff, barley hulls), agricultural waste (e.g., silage, canola straw, wheat straw,
     barley straw, oat straw, rice straw, jute, hemp, flax, bamboo, sisal, abaca, corn cobs, corn
     stover, soybean stover, corn fiber, alfalfa, hay, coconut hair), sugar processing residues
     (e.g., bagasse, beet pulp, agave bagasse), algae, seaweed, manure, sewage, and mixtures
     of any of these.
                                                   30

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     [00103]      In some cases, the lignocellulosic material includes corncobs. Ground or
     hammermilled corncobs can be spread in a layer of relatively uniform thickness for
     irradiation, and after irradiation are easy to disperse in the medium for further
     processing. To facilitate harvest and collection, in some cases the entire corn plant is
     used, including the corn stalk, corn kernels, and in some cases even the root system of
     the plant.
     [00104]      Advantageously, no additional nutrients (other than a nitrogen source, e.g.,
     urea or ammonia) are required during fermentation of corncobs or cellulosic or
     lignocellulosic materials containing significant amounts of corncobs.
     [00105]      Corncobs, before and after comminution, are also easier to convey and
     disperse, and have a lesser tendency to form explosive mixtures in air than other
     cellulosic or lignocellulosic materials such as hay and grasses.
     [00106]      Cellulosic materials include, for example, paper, paper products, paper waste,
     paper pulp, pigmented papers, loaded papers, coated papers, filled papers, magazines,
     printed matter (e.g., books, catalogs, manuals, labels, calendars, greeting cards,
     brochures, prospectuses, newsprint), printer paper, polycoated paper, card stock,
     cardboard, paperboard, materials having a high a-cellulose content such as cotton, and
     mixtures of any of these. For example paper products as described in U.S. App. No.
     13/396,365 ("Magazine Feedstocks" by Medoff et al., filed February 14, 2012), the full
     disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
     [00107]      Cellulosic materials can also include lignocellulosic materials which have
     been partially or fully de-lignified.
     [00108]      In some instances other biomass materials can be utilized, for example
     starchy materials. Starchy materials include starch itself, e.g., corn starch, wheat starch,
     potato starch or rice starch, a derivative of starch, or a material that includes starch, such
     as an edible food product or a crop. For example, the starchy material can be arracacha,
     buckwheat, banana, barley, cassava, kudzu, oca, sago, sorghum, regular household
     potatoes, sweet potato, taro, yams, or one or more beans, such as favas, lentils or peas.
     Blends of any two or more starchy materials are also starchy materials. Mixtures of
     starchy, cellulosic and or lignocellulosic materials can also be used. For example, a
     biomass can be an entire plant, a part of a plant or different parts of a plant, e.g., a wheat
     plant, cotton plant, a corn plant, rice plant or a tree. The starchy materials can be treated
     by any of the methods described herein.
     [00109]      Microbial materials that can be used as feedstock can include, but are not
     limited to, any naturally occurring or genetically modified microorganism or organism
                                                    31

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     that contains or is capable of providing a source of carbohydrates (e.g., cellulose), for
     example, protists, e.g., animal protists (e.g., protozoa such as flagellates, amoeboids,
     ciliates, and sporozoa) and plant protists (e.g., algae such alveolates,
     chlorarachniophytes, cryptomonads, euglenids, glaucophytes, haptophytes, red algae,
     stramenopiles, and viridaeplantae). Other examples include seaweed, plankton (e.g.,
     macroplankton, mesoplankton, microplankton, nanoplankton, picoplankton, and
     femptoplankton), phytoplankton, bacteria (e.g., gram positive bacteria, gram negative
     bacteria, and extremophiles), yeast and/or mixtures of these. In some instances,
     microbial biomass can be obtained from natural sources, e.g., the ocean, lakes, bodies of
     water, e.g., salt water or fresh water, or on land. Alternatively or in addition, microbial
     biomass can be obtained from culture systems, e.g., large scale dry and wet culture and
     fermentation systems.
     [00110]      In other embodiments, the biomass materials, such as cellulosic, starchy and
     lignocellulosic feedstock materials, can be obtained from transgenic microorganisms and
     plants that have been modified with respect to a wild type variety. Such modifications
     may be, for example, through the iterative steps of selection and breeding to obtain
     desired traits in a plant. Furthermore, the plants can have had genetic material removed,
     modified, silenced and/or added with respect to the wild type variety. For example,
     genetically modified plants can be produced by recombinant DNA methods, where
     genetic modifications include introducing or modifying specific genes from parental
     varieties, or, for example, by using transgenic breeding wherein a specific gene or genes
     are introduced to a plant from a different species of plant and/or bacteria. Another way
     to create genetic variation is through mutation breeding wherein new alleles are
     artificially created from endogenous genes. The artificial genes can be created by a
     variety of ways including treating the plant or seeds with, for example, chemical
     mutagens (e.g., using alkylating agents, epoxides, alkaloids, peroxides, formaldehyde),
     irradiation (e.g., X-rays, gamma rays, neutrons, beta particles, alpha particles, protons,
     deuterons, UV radiation) and temperature shocking or other external stressing and
     subsequent selection techniques. Other methods of providing modified genes is through
     error prone PCR and DNA shuffling followed by insertion of the desired modified DNA
     into the desired plant or seed. Methods of introducing the desired genetic variation in the
     seed or plant include, for example, the use of a bacterial carrier, biolistics, calcium
     phosphate precipitation, electroporation, gene splicing, gene silencing, lipofection,
     microinjection and viral carriers. Additional genetically modified materials have been
     described in U.S. Application Serial No 13/396,369 filed February 14, 2012 the full
                                                    32

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference. Any of the methods described
     herein can be practiced with mixtures of any biomass materials described herein.
         BIOMASS MATERIAL PREPARATION - MECHANICAL TREATMENTS
     [00111]     The biomass can be in a dry form, for example with less than about 35%
     moisture content (e.g., less than about 20 %, less than about 15 %, less than about 10 %
     less than about 5 %, less than about 4%, less than about 3 %, less than about 2 % or
     even less than about 1 %). The biomass can also be delivered in a wet state, for example
     as a wet solid, a slurry or a suspension with at least about 10 wt.% solids (e.g., at least
     about 20 wt.%, at least about 30 wt. %, at least about 40 wt.%, at least about 50 wt.%, at
     least about 60 wt.%, at least about 70 wt.%).
     [00112]     The processes disclosed herein can utilize low bulk density materials, for
     example cellulosic or lignocellulosic feedstocks that have been physically pretreated to
     have a bulk density of less than about 0.75 g/cm3 , e.g., less than about 0.7, 0.65, 0.60,
     0.50, 0.35, 0.25, 0.20, 0.15, 0.10, 0.05 or less, e.g., less than about 0.025 g/cm3 . Bulk
     density is determined using ASTM D1895B. Briefly, the method involves filling a
     measuring cylinder of known volume with a sample and obtaining a weight of the
     sample. The bulk density is calculated by dividing the weight of the sample in grams by
     the known volume of the cylinder in cubic centimeters. If desired, low bulk density
     materials can be densified, for example, by methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 7,971,809
     to Medoff, the full disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.
     [00113]     In some cases, the pre-treatment processing includes screening of the biomass
     material. Screening can be through a mesh or perforated plate with a desired opening
     size, for example, less than about 6.35 mm (1/4 inch, 0.25 inch), (e.g., less than about
     3.18 mm (1/8 inch, 0.125 inch), less than about 1.59 mm (1/16 inch, 0.0625 inch), is less
     than about 0.79 mm (1/32 inch, 0.03125 inch), e.g., less than about 0.51 mm (1/50 inch,
     0.02000 inch), less than about 0.40 mm (1/64 inch, 0.015625 inch), less than about 0.23
     mm (0.009 inch), less than about 0.20 mm (1/128 inch, 0.0078125 inch), less than about
     0.18 mm (0.007 inch), less than about 0.13 mm (0.005 inch), or even less than about 0.10
     mm (1/256 inch, 0.00390625 inch)). In one configuration the desired biomass falls
     through the perforations or screen and thus biomass larger than the perforations or screen
     are not irradiated. These larger materials can be re-processed, for example, by
     comminuting, or they can simply be removed from processing. In another configuration
     material that is larger than the perforations is irradiated and the smaller material is
                                                    33

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     removed by the screening process or recycled. In this kind of a configuration, the
     conveyor itself (for example a part of the conveyor) can be perforated or made with a
     mesh. For example, in one particular embodiment the biomass material may be wet and
     the perforations or mesh allow water to drain away from the biomass before irradiation.
     [00114]      Screening of material can also be by a manual method, for example, by an
     operator or mechanoid (e.g., a robot equipped with a color, reflectivity or other sensor)
     that removes unwanted material. Screening can also be by magnetic screening wherein a
     magnet is disposed near the conveyed material and the magnetic material is removed
     magnetically.
     [00115]      Optional pre-treatment processing can include heating the material. For
     example a portion of a conveyor conveying the material or other material can be sent
     through a heated zone. The heated zone can be created, for example, by IR radiation,
     microwaves, combustion (e.g., gas, coal, oil, biomass), resistive heating and/or inductive
     coils. The heat can be applied from at least one side or more than one side, can be
     continuous or periodic and can be for only a portion of the material or all the material.
     For example, a portion of the conveying trough can be heated by use of a heating jacket.
     Heating can be, for example, for the purpose of drying the material. In the case of drying
     the material, this can also be facilitated, with or without heating, by the movement of a
     gas (e.g., air, oxygen, nitrogen, He, C0 2 , Argon) over and/or through the biomass as it is
     being conveyed.
     [00116]      Optionally, pre-treatment processing can include cooling the material.
     Cooling material is described in US Pat. No. 7,900,857 to Medoff, the disclosure of
     which in incorporated herein by reference. For example, cooling can be by supplying a
     cooling fluid, for example water (e.g., with glycerol), or nitrogen (e.g., liquid nitrogen) to
     the bottom of the conveying trough. Alternatively, a cooling gas, for example, chilled
     nitrogen can be blown over the biomass materials or under the conveying system.
     [00117]      Another optional pre-treatment processing method can include adding a
     material to the biomass or other feedstocks. The additional material can be added by, for
     example, by showering, sprinkling and or pouring the material onto the biomass as it is
     conveyed. Materials that can be added include, for example, metals, ceramics and/or
     ions as described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0105119 Al (filed October 26, 2009) and
     U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0159569 Al (filed December 16, 2009), the entire disclosures
     of which are incorporated herein by reference. Optional materials that can be added
     include acids and bases. Other materials that can be added are oxidants (e.g., peroxides,
     chlorates), polymers, polymerizable monomers (e.g., containing unsaturated bonds),
                                                    34

WO 2014/138600                                                                   PCT/US2014/021815
     water, catalysts, enzymes and/or organisms. Materials can be added, for example, in
     pure form, as a solution in a solvent (e.g., water or an organic solvent) and/or as a
     solution. In some cases the solvent is volatile and can be made to evaporate e.g., by
     heating and/or blowing gas as previously described. The added material may form a
     uniform coating on the biomass or be a homogeneous mixture of different components
     (e.g., biomass and additional material). The added material can modulate the subsequent
     irradiation step by increasing the efficiency of the irradiation, damping the irradiation or
     changing the effect of the irradiation (e.g., from electron beams to X-rays or heat). The
     method may have no impact on the irradiation but may be useful for further downstream
     processing. The added material may help in conveying the material, for example, by
     lowering dust levels.
     [00118]      Biomass can be delivered to a conveyor (e.g., vibratory conveyors used in the
     vaults herein described) by a belt conveyor, a pneumatic conveyor, a screw conveyor, a
     hopper, a pipe, manually or by a combination of these. The biomass can, for example, be
     dropped, poured and/or placed onto the conveyor by any of these methods. In some
     embodiments, the material is delivered to the conveyor using an enclosed material
     distribution system to help maintain a low oxygen atmosphere and/or control dust and
     fines. Lofted or air suspended biomass fines and dust are undesirable because these can
     form an explosion hazard or damage the window foils of an electron gun (if such a
     device is used for treating the material).
     [00119]      The material can be leveled to form a uniform thickness between about
     0.0312 and 5 inches (e.g., between about 0.0625 and 2.000 inches, between about 0.125
     and 1 inches, between about 0.125 and 0.5 inches, between about 0.3 and 0.9 inches,
     between about 0.2 and 0.5 inches between about 0.25 and 1.0 inches, between about 0.25
     and 0.5 inches, 0.100 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.150 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.200 +/- 0.025 inches,
     0.250 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.300 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.350 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.400 +/- 0.025
     inches, 0.450 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.500 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.550 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.600 +/
     0.025 inches, 0.700 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.750 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.800 +/- 0.025 inches,
     0.850 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.900 +/- 0.025 inches, 0.900 +/- 0.025 inches.
     [00120]      Generally, it is preferred to convey the material as quickly as possible through
     the electron beam to maximize throughput. For example, the material can be conveyed
     at rates of at least 1 ft/min, e.g., at least 2 ft/min, at least 3 ft/min, at least 4 ft/min, at
     least 5 ft/min, at least 10 ft/min, at least 15 ft/min, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 ft/min. The
     rate of conveying is related to the beam current, for example, for a           inch thick biomass
     and 100 mA, the conveyor can move at about 20 ft/min to provide a useful irradiation
                                                        35

WO 2014/138600                                                                  PCT/US2014/021815
     dosage, at 50 mA the conveyor can move at about 10 ft/min to provide approximately the
     same irradiation dosage.
     [00121]         After the biomass material has been conveyed through the radiation zone,
     optional post-treatment processing can be done. The optional post-treatment processing
     can, for example, be a process described with respect to the pre-irradiation processing.
     For example, the biomass can be screened, heated, cooled, and/or combined with
     additives. Uniquely to post-irradiation, quenching of the radicals can occur, for example,
     quenching of radicals by the addition of fluids or gases (e.g., oxygen, nitrous oxide,
     ammonia, liquids), using pressure, heat, and/or the addition of radical scavengers. For
     example, the biomass can be conveyed out of the enclosed conveyor and exposed to a
     gas (e.g., oxygen) where it is quenched, forming caboxylated groups. In one
     embodiment the biomass is exposed during irradiation to the reactive gas or fluid.
     Quenching of biomass that has been irradiated is described in U.S. Pat. No. 8,083,906 to
     Medoff, the entire disclosure of which is incorporate herein by reference.
     [00122]         If desired, one or more mechanical treatments can be used in addition to
     irradiation to further reduce the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing material.
     These processes can be applied before, during and or after irradiation.
     [00123]         In some cases, the mechanical treatment may include an initial preparation of
     the feedstock as received, e.g., size reduction of materials, such as by comminution, e.g.,
     cutting, grinding, shearing, pulverizing or chopping. For example, in some cases, loose
     feedstock (e.g., recycled paper, starchy materials, or switchgrass) is prepared by shearing
     or shredding. Mechanical treatment may reduce the bulk density of the carbohydrate
     containing material, increase the surface area of the carbohydrate-containing material
     and/or decrease one or more dimensions of the carbohydrate-containing material.
     [00124]         Alternatively, or in addition, the feedstock material can be treated with
     another treatment, for example, chemical treatments, such as one with an acid (HCl,
     H 2 SO 4 , H 3 PO4), a base (e.g., KOH and NaOH), a chemical oxidant (e.g., peroxides,
     chlorates, ozone), irradiation, steam explosion, pyrolysis, sonication, oxidation, chemical
     treatment. The treatments can be in any order and in any sequence and combinations. For
     example, the feedstock material can first be physically treated by one or more treatment
     methods, e.g., chemical treatment including and in combination with acid hydrolysis
     (e.g., utilizing HCl, H 2 SO 4 , H 3 PO4), radiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis or steam
     explosion, and then mechanically treated. This sequence can be advantageous since
     materials treated by one or more of the other treatments, e.g., irradiation or pyrolysis,
     tend to be more brittle and, therefore, it may be easier to further change the structure of
                                                        36

WO 2014/138600                                                             PCT/US2014/021815
     the material by mechanical treatment. As another example, a feedstock material can be
     conveyed through ionizing radiation using a conveyor as described herein and then
     mechanically treated. Chemical treatment can remove some or all of the lignin (for
     example, chemical pulping) and can partially or completely hydrolyze the material. The
     methods also can be used with pre-hydrolyzed material. The methods also can be used
     with material that has not been pre hydrolyzed. The methods can be used with mixtures
     of hydrolyzed and non-hydrolyzed materials, for example, with about 50% or more non
     hydrolyzed material, with about 60% or more non- hydrolyzed material, with about 70%
     or more non-hydrolyzed material, with about 80% or more non-hydrolyzed material or
     even with 90% or more non-hydrolyzed material.
     [00125]      In addition to size reduction, which can be performed initially and/or later in
     processing, mechanical treatment can also be advantageous for "opening up,"
     "stressing," breaking or shattering the carbohydrate-containing materials, making the
     cellulose of the materials more susceptible to chain scission and/or disruption of
     crystalline structure during the physical treatment.
     [00126]      Methods of mechanically treating the carbohydrate-containing material
     include, for example, milling or grinding. Milling may be performed using, for example,
     a hammer mill, ball mill, colloid mill, conical or cone mill, disk mill, edge mill, Wiley
     mill, grist mill or other mill. Grinding may be performed using, for example, a
     cutting/impact type grinder. Some exemplary grinders include stone grinders, pin
     grinders, coffee grinders, and burr grinders. Grinding or milling may be provided, for
     example, by a reciprocating pin or other element, as is the case in a pin mill. Other
     mechanical treatment methods include mechanical ripping or tearing, other methods that
     apply pressure to the fibers, and air attrition milling. Suitable mechanical treatments
     further include any other technique that continues the disruption of the internal structure
     of the material that was initiated by the previous processing steps.
     [00127]      Mechanical feed preparation systems can be configured to produce streams
     with specific characteristics such as, for example, specific maximum sizes, specific
     length-to-width, or specific surface areas ratios. Physical preparation can increase the
     rate of reactions, improve the movement of material on a conveyor, improve the
     irradiation profile of the material, improve the radiation uniformity of the material, or
     reduce the processing time required by opening up the materials and making them more
     accessible to processes and/or reagents, such as reagents in a solution.
     [00128]      The bulk density of feedstocks can be controlled (e.g., increased). In some
     situations, it can be desirable to prepare a low bulk density material, e.g., by densifying
                                                    37

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
     the material (e.g., densification can make it easier and less costly to transport to another
     site) and then reverting the material to a lower bulk density state (e.g., after transport).
     The material can be densified, for example, from less than about 0.2 g/cc to more than
     about 0.9 g/cc (e.g., less than about 0.3 to more than about 0.5 g/cc, less than about 0.3 to
     more than about 0.9 g/cc, less than about 0.5 to more than about 0.9 g/cc, less than about
     0.3 to more than about 0.8 g/cc, less than about 0.2 to more than about 0.5 g/cc). For
     example, the material can be densified by the methods and equipment disclosed in U.S.
     Pat. No. 7,932,065 to Medoff and International Publication No. WO 2008/073186
     (which was filed October 26, 2007, was published in English, and which designated the
     United States), the full disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference.
     Densified materials can be processed by any of the methods described herein, or any
     material processed by any of the methods described herein can be subsequently
     densified.
     [00129]      In some embodiments, the material to be processed is in the form of a fibrous
     material that includes fibers provided by shearing a fiber source. For example, the
     shearing can be performed with a rotary knife cutter.
     [00130]      For example, a fiber source, e.g., that is recalcitrant or that has had its
     recalcitrance level reduced, can be sheared, e.g., in a rotary knife cutter, to provide a first
     fibrous material. The first fibrous material is passed through a first screen, e.g., having
     an average opening size of 1.59 mm or less (1/16 inch, 0.0625 inch), provide a second
     fibrous material. If desired, the fiber source can be cut prior to the shearing, e.g., with a
     shredder. For example, when a paper is used as the fiber source, the paper can be first
     cut into strips that are, e.g., 1/4- to 1/2-inch wide, using a shredder, e.g., a counter
     rotating screw shredder, such as those manufactured by Munson (Utica, N.Y.). As an
     alternative to shredding, the paper can be reduced in size by cutting to a desired size
     using a guillotine cutter. For example, the guillotine cutter can be used to cut the paper
     into sheets that are, e.g., 10 inches wide by 12 inches long.
     [00131]      In some embodiments, the shearing of the fiber source and the passing of the
     resulting first fibrous material through a first screen are performed concurrently. The
     shearing and the passing can also be performed in a batch-type process.
     [00132]      For example, a rotary knife cutter can be used to concurrently shear the fiber
     source and screen the first fibrous material. A rotary knife cutter includes a hopper that
     can be loaded with a shredded fiber source prepared by shredding a fiber source.
     [00133]      In some implementations, the feedstock is physically treated prior to
     saccharification and/or fermentation. Physical treatment processes can include one or
                                                      38

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     more of any of those described herein, such as mechanical treatment, chemical treatment,
     irradiation, sonication, oxidation, pyrolysis or steam explosion. Treatment methods can
     be used in combinations of two, three, four, or even all of these technologies (in any
     order). When more than one treatment method is used, the methods can be applied at the
     same time or at different times. Other processes that change a molecular structure of a
     biomass feedstock may also be used, alone or in combination with the processes
     disclosed herein.
     [00134]      Mechanical treatments that may be used, and the characteristics of the
     mechanically treated carbohydrate-containing materials, are described in further detail in
     U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 A1, filed October 18, 2011, the full disclosure of
     which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
              SONICATION, PYROLYSIS, OXIDATION, STEAM EXPLOSION
     [00135]      If desired, one or more sonication, pyrolysis, oxidative, or steam explosion
     processes can be used instead of or in addition to irradiation to reduce or further reduce
     the recalcitrance of the carbohydrate-containing material. For example, these processes
     can be applied before, during and or after irradiation. These processes are described in
     detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7,932,065 to Medoff, the full disclosure of which is incorporated
     herein by reference.
                                INTERMEDIATES AND PRODUCTS
     [00136]      Using the processes described herein, the biomass material can be converted
     to one or more products, such as energy, fuels, foods and materials. For example,
     intermediates and products such as organic acids, salts of organic acids, anhydrides,
     esters of organic acids and fuels, e.g., fuels for internal combustion engines or feedstocks
     for fuel cells. Systems and processes are described herein that can use as feedstock
     cellulosic and/or lignocellulosic materials that are readily available, but often can be
     difficult to process, e.g., municipal waste streams and waste paper streams, such as
     streams that include newspaper, Kraft paper, corrugated paper or mixtures of these.
     [00137]      Specific examples of products include, but are not limited to, hydrogen,
     sugars (e.g., glucose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose, fructose, disaccharides,
     oligosaccharides and polysaccharides), alcohols (e.g., monohydric alcohols or dihydric
     alcohols, such as ethanol, n-propanol, isobutanol, sec-butanol, tert-butanol or n-butanol),
                                                    39

WO 2014/138600                                                                 PCT/US2014/021815
     hydrated or hydrous alcohols (e.g., containing greater than 10%, 20%, 30% or even
     greater than 40% water), biodiesel, organic acids, hydrocarbons (e.g., methane, ethane,
     propane, isobutene, pentane, n-hexane, biodiesel, bio-gasoline and mixtures thereof), co
     products (e.g., proteins, such as cellulolytic proteins (enzymes) or single cell proteins),
     and mixtures of any of these in any combination or relative concentration, and optionally
     in combination with any additives (e.g., fuel additives). Other examples include
     carboxylic acids, salts of a carboxylic acid, a mixture of carboxylic acids and salts of
     carboxylic acids and esters of carboxylic acids (e.g., methyl, ethyl and n-propyl esters),
     ketones (e.g., acetone), aldehydes (e.g., acetaldehyde), alpha and beta unsaturated acids
     (e.g., acrylic acid) and olefins (e.g., ethylene). Other alcohols and alcohol derivatives
     include propanol, propylene glycol, 1,4-butanediol, 1,3-propanediol, sugar alcohols (e.g.,
     erythritol, glycol, glycerol, sorbitol threitol, arabitol, ribitol, mannitol, dulcitol, fucitol,
     iditol, isomalt, maltitol, lactitol, xylitol and other polyols), and methyl or ethyl esters of
     any of these alcohols. Other products include methyl acrylate, methyl methacrylate, D
     lactic acid, L-lactic acid pyruvic acid, polylactic acid, citric acid, formic acid, acetic acid,
     propionic acid, lactic acid, tartaric acid, butyric acid, succinic acid, valeric acid, caproic
     acid, 3-hydroxypropionic acid, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oxalic acid, malonic acid,
     glutaric acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid, glycolic acid, gamma-hydroxybutyric acid, and
     mixtures thereof, salts of any of these acids, mixtures of any of the acids and their
     respective salts.
     [00138]      Any combination of the above products with each other, and/or of the above
     products with other products, which other products may be made by the processes
     described herein or otherwise, may be packaged together and sold as products. The
     products may be combined, e.g., mixed, blended or co-dissolved, or may simply be
     packaged or sold together.
     [00139]      Any of the products or combinations of products described herein may be
     sanitized or sterilized prior to selling the products, e.g., after purification or isolation or
     even after packaging, to neutralize one or more potentially undesirable contaminants that
     could be present in the product(s). Such sanitation can be done with electron
     bombardment, for example, be at a dosage of less than about 20 Mrad, e.g., from about
     0.1 to 15 Mrad, from about 0.5 to 7 Mrad, or from about 1 to 3 Mrad.
     [00140]      The processes described herein can produce various by-product streams
     useful for generating steam and electricity to be used in other parts of the plant (co
     generation) or sold on the open market. For example, steam generated from burning by
     product streams can be used in a distillation process. As another example, electricity
                                                      40

WO 2014/138600                                                             PCT/US2014/021815
     generated from burning by-product streams can be used to power electron beam
     generators used in pretreatment.
     [00141]      The by-products used to generate steam and electricity are derived from a
     number of sources throughout the process. For example, anaerobic digestion of
     wastewater can produce a biogas high in methane and a small amount of waste biomass
     (sludge). As another example, post-saccharification and/or post-distillate solids (e.g.,
     unconverted lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose remaining from the pretreatment and
     primary processes) can be used, e.g., burned, as a fuel.
     [00142]      Other intermediates and products, including food and pharmaceutical
     products, are described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2010/0124583 Al, published May 20,
     2010, to Medoff, the full disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.
                                   LIGNIN DERIVED PRODUCTS
     [00143]      The spent biomass (e.g., spent lignocellulosic material) from lignocellulosic
     processing by the methods described are expected to have a high lignin content and in
     addition to being useful for producing energy through combustion in a Co-Generation
     plant, may have uses as other valuable products. For example, the lignin can be used as
     captured as a plastic, or it can be synthetically upgraded to other plastics. In some
     instances, it can also be converted to lignosulfonates, which can be utilized as binders,
     dispersants, emulsifiers or as sequestrants.
     [00144]      When used as a binder, the lignin or a lignosulfonate can, e.g., be utilized in
     coal briquettes, in ceramics, for binding carbon black, for binding fertilizers and
     herbicides, as a dust suppressant, in the making of plywood and particle board, for
     binding animal feeds, as a binder for fiberglass, as a binder in linoleum paste and as a
     soil stabilizer.
     [00145]      When used as a dispersant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, for
     example in, concrete mixes, clay and ceramics, dyes and pigments, leather tanning and in
     gypsum board.
     [00146]      When used as an emulsifier, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in
     asphalt, pigments and dyes, pesticides and wax emulsions.
     [00147]      As a sequestrant, the lignin or lignosulfonates can be used, e.g., in micro
     nutrient systems, cleaning compounds and water treatment systems, e.g., for boiler and
     cooling systems.
                                                    41

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     [00148]      For energy production, lignin generally has a higher energy content than
     holocellulose (cellulose and hemicellulose) since it contains more carbon than
     homocellulose. For example, dry lignin can have an energy content of between about
     11,000 and 12,500 BTU per pound, compared to 7,000 an 8,000 BTU per pound of
     holocellulose. As such, lignin can be densified and converted into briquettes and pellets
     for burning. For example, the lignin can be converted into pellets by any method
     described herein. For a slower burning pellet or briquette, the lignin can be crosslinked,
     such as applying a radiation dose of between about 0.5 Mrad and 5 Mrad. Crosslinking
     can make a slower burning form factor. The form factor, such as a pellet or briquette,
     can be converted to a "synthetic coal" or charcoal by pyrolyzing in the absence of air,
     e.g., at between 400 and 950 'C. Prior to pyrolyzing, it can be desirable to crosslink the
     lignin to maintain structural integrity.
                                        SACCHARIFICATION
     [00149]      In order to convert the feedstock to a form that can be readily processed, the
     glucan- or xylan-containing cellulose in the feedstock can be hydrolyzed to low
     molecular weight carbohydrates, such as sugars, by a saccharifying agent, e.g., an
     enzyme or acid, a process referred to as saccharification. The low molecular weight
     carbohydrates can then be used, for example, in an existing manufacturing plant, such as
     a single cell protein plant, an enzyme manufacturing plant, or a fuel plant, e.g., an
     ethanol manufacturing facility.
     [00150]      The feedstock can be hydrolyzed using an enzyme, e.g., by combining the
     materials and the enzyme in a solvent, e.g., in an aqueous solution.
     [00151]      Alternatively, the enzymes can be supplied by organisms that break down
     biomass, such as the cellulose and/or the lignin portions of the biomass, contain or
     manufacture various cellulolytic enzymes (cellulases), ligninases or various small
     molecule biomass-degrading metabolites. These enzymes may be a complex of enzymes
     that act synergistically to degrade crystalline cellulose or the lignin portions of biomass.
     Examples of cellulolytic enzymes include: endoglucanases, cellobiohydrolases, and
     cellobiases (beta-glucosidases).
     [00152]      During saccharification a cellulosic substrate can be initially hydrolyzed by
     endoglucanases at random locations producing oligomeric intermediates. These
     intermediates are then substrates for exo-splitting glucanases such as cellobiohydrolase
     to produce cellobiose from the ends of the cellulose polymer. Cellobiose is a water
                                                   42

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     soluble 1,4-linked dimer of glucose. Finally, cellobiase cleaves cellobiose to yield
     glucose. The efficiency (e.g., time to hydrolyze and/or completeness of hydrolysis) of
     this process depends on the recalcitrance of the cellulosic material.
     [00153]      Therefore, the treated biomass materials can be saccharified, generally by
     combining the material and a cellulase enzyme in a fluid medium, e.g., an aqueous
     solution. In some cases, the material is boiled, steeped, or cooked in hot water prior to
     saccharification, as described in U.S. Pat. App. Pub. 2012/0100577 Al by Medoff and
     Masterman, published on April 26, 2012, the entire contents of which are incorporated
     herein.
     [00154]      The saccharification process can be partially or completely performed in a
     tank (e.g., a tank having a volume of at least 4000, 40,000, or 500,000 L) in a
     manufacturing plant, and/or can be partially or completely performed in transit, e.g., in a
     rail car, tanker truck, or in a supertanker or the hold of a ship. The time required for
     complete saccharification will depend on the process conditions and the carbohydrate
     containing material and enzyme used. If saccharification is performed in a
     manufacturing plant under controlled conditions, the cellulose may be substantially
     entirely converted to sugar, e.g., glucose in about 12-96 hours. If saccharification is
     performed partially or completely in transit, saccharification may take longer.
     [00155]      It is generally preferred that the tank contents be mixed during
     saccharification, e.g., using jet mixing as described in International App. No.
     PCT/US2010/035331, filed May 18, 2010, which was published in English as WO
     2010/135380 and designated the United States, the full disclosure of which is
     incorporated by reference herein.
     [00156]      The addition of surfactants can enhance the rate of saccharification.
     Examples of surfactants include non-ionic surfactants, such as a Tween@ 20 or Tween
     80 polyethylene glycol surfactants, ionic surfactants, or amphoteric surfactants.
     [00157]      It is generally preferred that the concentration of the sugar solution resulting
     from saccharification be relatively high, e.g., greater than 40%, or greater than 50, 60,
     70, 80, 90 or even greater than 95% by weight. Water may be removed, e.g., by
     evaporation, to increase the concentration of the sugar solution. This reduces the volume
     to be shipped, and also inhibits microbial growth in the solution.
     [00158]      Alternatively, sugar solutions of lower concentrations may be used, in which
     case it may be desirable to add an antimicrobial additive, e.g., a broad spectrum
     antibiotic, in a low concentration, e.g., 50 to 150 ppm. Other suitable antibiotics include
     amphotericin B, ampicillin, chloramphenicol, ciprofloxacin, gentamicin, hygromycin B,
                                                     43

WO 2014/138600                                                            PCT/US2014/021815
     kanamycin, neomycin, penicillin, puromycin, streptomycin. Antibiotics will inhibit
     growth of microorganisms during transport and storage, and can be used at appropriate
     concentrations, e.g., between 15 and 1000 ppm by weight, e.g., between 25 and 500 ppm,
     or between 50 and 150 ppm. If desired, an antibiotic can be included even if the sugar
     concentration is relatively high. Alternatively, other additives with anti-microbial of
     preservative properties may be used. Preferably the antimicrobial additive(s) are food
     grade.
     [00159]     A relatively high concentration solution can be obtained by limiting the
     amount of water added to the carbohydrate-containing material with the enzyme. The
     concentration can be controlled, e.g., by controlling how much saccharification takes
     place. For example, concentration can be increased by adding more carbohydrate
     containing material to the solution. In order to keep the sugar that is being produced in
     solution, a surfactant can be added, e.g., one of those discussed above. Solubility can
     also be increased by increasing the temperature of the solution. For example, the
     solution can be maintained at a temperature of 40-50'C, 60-80'C, or even higher.
                                   SACCHARIFYING AGENTS
     [00160]     Suitable cellulolytic enzymes include cellulases from species in the genera
     Bacillus, Coprinus, Myceliophthora, Cephalosporium,Scytalidium, Penicillium,
     Aspergillus, Pseudomonas,Humicola, Fusarium, Thielavia,Acremonium,
     Chrysosporium and Trichoderma, especially those produced by a strain selected from the
     species Aspergillus (see, e.g., EP Pub. No. 0 458 162), Humicola insolens (reclassified as
     Scytalidium thermophilum, see, e.g., U.S. Pat. No. 4,435,307), Coprinus cinereus,
     Fusariumoxysporum, Myceliophthora thermophila, Meripilus giganteus, Thielavia
     terrestris,Acremonium sp. (including, but not limited to, A. persicinum,A. acremonium,
     A. brachypenium,A. dichromosporum,A. obclavatum, A. pinkertoniae, A. roseogriseum,
     A. incoloratum, and A. furatum). Preferred strains include Humicola insolens DSM
     1800, Fusariumoxysporum DSM 2672, Myceliophthora thermophila CBS 117.65,
     Cephalosporiumsp. RYM-202, Acremonium sp. CBS 478.94, Acremonium sp. CBS
     265.95, Acremoniumpersicinum CBS 169.65, Acremonium acremonium AHU 9519,
     Cephalosporiumsp. CBS 535.71, Acremonium brachypenium CBS 866.73, Acremonium
     dichromosporum CBS 683.73, Acremonium obclavatum CBS 311.74, Acremonium
     pinkertoniae CBS 157.70, Acremonium roseogriseum CBS 134.56, Acremonium
     incoloratum CBS 146.62, and Acremoniumfuratum CBS 299.70H. Cellulolytic
                                                  44

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     enzymes may also be obtained from Chrysosporium, preferably a strain of
     Chrysosporium lucknowense. Additional strains that can be used include, but are not
     limited to, Trichoderma (particularly T. viride, T. reesei, and T. koningii), alkalophilic
     Bacillus (see, for example, U.S. Pat. No. 3,844,890 and EP Pub. No. 0 458 162), and
     Streptomyces (see, e.g., EP Pub. No. 0 458 162).
     [00161]         In addition to or in combination to enzymes, acids, bases and other chemicals
     (e.g., oxidants) can be utilized to saccharify lignocellulosic and cellulosic materials.
     These can be used in any combination or sequence (e.g., before, after and/or during
     addition of an enzyme). For example strong mineral acids can be utilized (e.g. HCl,
     H 2 SO 4 , H 3 PO 4 ) and strong bases (e.g., NaOH, KOH).
                                                    SUGARS
     [00162]         In the processes described herein, for example after saccharification, sugars
     (e.g., glucose and xylose) can be isolated. For example sugars can be isolated by
     precipitation, crystallization, chromatography (e.g., simulated moving bed
     chromatography as described herein, high pressure chromatography), centrifugation,
     extraction, any other isolation method known in the art, and combinations thereof.
           HYDROGENATION AND OTHER CHEMICAL TRANSFORMATIONS
     [00163]         The processes described herein can include hydrogenation. For example
     glucose and xylose can be hydrogenated to sorbitol and xylitol respectively.
     Hydrogenation can be accomplished by use of a catalyst (e.g., Pt/gamma-A12 0 3 , Ru/C,
     Raney Nickel, or other catalysts know in the art) in combination with H 2 under high
     pressure (e.g., 10 to 12000 psi). Other types of chemical transformation of the products
     from the processes described herein can be used, for example production of organic
     sugar derived products (e.g., furfural and furfural-derived products). Chemical
     transformations of sugar derived products are described in USSN 13/934,704 filed July
     3, 2013, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                              FERMENTATION
     [00164]         Yeast and Zymomonas bacteria, for example, can be used for fermentation or
     conversion of sugar(s) to alcohol(s). Other microorganisms are discussed below. The
                                                      45

WO 2014/138600                                                            PCT/US2014/021815
     optimum pH for fermentations is about pH 4 to 7. For example, the optimum pH for
     yeast is from about pH 4 to 5, while the optimum pH for Zymomonas is from about pH 5
     to 6. Typical fermentation times are about 24 to 168 hours (e.g., 24 to 96 hrs) with
     temperatures in the range of 20'C to 40'C (e.g., 260 C to 40'C), however thermophilic
     microorganisms prefer higher temperatures.
     [00165]     In some embodiments, e.g., when anaerobic organisms are used, at least a
     portion of the fermentation is conducted in the absence of oxygen, e.g., under a blanket
     of an inert gas such as N2, Ar, He, CO 2 or mixtures thereof. Additionally, the mixture
     may have a constant purge of an inert gas flowing through the tank during part of or all
     of the fermentation. In some cases, anaerobic condition, can be achieved or maintained
     by carbon dioxide production during the fermentation and no additional inert gas is
     needed.
     [00166]     In some embodiments, all or a portion of the fermentation process can be
     interrupted before the low molecular weight sugar is completely converted to a product
     (e.g., ethanol). The intermediate fermentation products include sugar and carbohydrates
     in high concentrations. The sugars and carbohydrates can be isolated via any means
     known in the art. These intermediate fermentation products can be used in preparation of
     food for human or animal consumption. Additionally or alternatively, the intermediate
     fermentation products can be ground to a fine particle size in a stainless-steel laboratory
     mill to produce a flour-like substance. Jet mixing may be used during fermentation, and
     in some cases saccharification and fermentation are performed in the same tank.
     [00167]     Nutrients for the microorganisms may be added during saccharification
     and/or fermentation, for example the food-based nutrient packages described in U.S. Pat.
     App. Pub. 2012/0052536, filed July 15, 2011, the complete disclosure of which is
     incorporated herein by reference.
     [00168]     "Fermentation" includes the methods and products that are disclosed in
     application Nos. PCT/US2012/71093 published June 27, 2013, PCT/US2012/71907
     published June 27, 2012, and PCT/US2012/71083 published June 27, 2012 the contents
     of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
     [00169]     Mobile fermenters can be utilized, as described in International App. No.
     PCT/US2007/074028 (which was filed July 20, 2007, was published in English as WO
     2008/011598 and designated the United States) and has a US issued Patent No.
     8,318,453, the contents of which are incorporated herein in its entirety. Similarly, the
     saccharification equipment can be mobile. Further, saccharification and/or fermentation
     may be performed in part or entirely during transit.
                                                  46

WO 2014/138600                                                                  PCT/US2014/021815
                                     FERMENTATION AGENTS
     [00170]       The microorganism(s) used in fermentation can be naturally-occurring
     microorganisms and/or engineered microorganisms. For example, the microorganism
     can be a bacterium (including, but not limited to, e.g., a cellulolytic bacterium), a fungus,
     (including, but not limited to, e.g., a yeast), a plant, a protist, e.g., a protozoa or a fungus
     like protest (including, but not limited to, e.g., a slime mold), or an alga. When the
     organisms are compatible, mixtures of organisms can be utilized.
     [00171]       Suitable fermenting microorganisms have the ability to convert
     carbohydrates, such as glucose, fructose, xylose, arabinose, mannose, galactose,
     oligosaccharides or polysaccharides into fermentation products. Fermenting
     microorganisms include strains of the genus Sacchromyces spp. (including, but not
     limited to, S. cerevisiae (baker's yeast), S. distaticus, S. uvarum), the genus
     Kluyveromyces, (including, but not limited to, K. marxianus, K.fragilis), the genus
     Candida (including, but not limited to, C. pseudotropicalis,and C. brassicae),Pichia
     stipitis (a relative of Candida shehatae), the genus Clavispora (including, but not limited
     to, C. lusitaniae and C. opuntiae), the genus Pachysolen (including, but not limited to, P.
     tannophilus), the genus Bretannomyces (including, but not limited to, e.g., B. clausenii
     (Philippidis, G. P., 1996, Cellulose bioconversion technology, in Handbook on
     Bioethanol: Production and Utilization, Wyman, C.E., ed., Taylor & Francis,
     Washington, DC, 179-212)). Other suitable microorganisms include, for example,
     Zymomonas mobilis, Clostridiumspp. (including, but not limited to, C. thermocellum
     (Philippidis, 1996, supra), C. saccharobutylacetonicum,C. tyrobutyricum C.
     saccharobutylicum,C. Puniceum, C. beijernckii, and C. acetobutylicum), Moniliella spp.
     (includingbut not limited to M. pollinis,M. tomentosa, M. madida,M. nigrescens, M.
     oedocephali, M. megachiliensis), Yarrowia lipolytica, Aureobasidium sp.,
     Trichosporonoidessp., Trigonopsis variabilis, Trichosporon sp., Moniliellaacetoabutans
     sp., Typhula variabilis,Candida magnoliae, Ustilaginomycetes sp., Pseudozyma
     tsukubaensis, yeast species of genera Zygosaccharomyces, Debaryomyces, Hansenula
     and Pichia,and fungi of the dematioid genus Torula (e.g., T.corallina).
     [00172]       Additional microorganisms include the Lactobacillus group. Examples
     include Lactobacillus casei, Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillusdelbrueckii,
     Lactobacillusplantarum, Lactobacilluscoryniformis, e.g., Lactobacillus coryniformis
     subspecies torquens, Lactobacilluspentosus, Lactobacillusbrevis. Other
     microorganisms include Pediococuspenosaceus, Rhizopus oryzae.
                                                     47

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
     [00173]       Many such microbial strains are publicly available, either commercially or
     through depositories such as the ATCC (American Type Culture Collection, Manassas,
     Virginia, USA), the NRRL (Agricultural Research Service Culture Collection, Peoria,
     Illinois, USA), or the DSMZ (Deutsche Sammlung von Mikroorganismen und
     Zellkulturen GmbH, Braunschweig, Germany), to name a few.
     [00174]       Commercially available yeasts include, for example, RED STAR@/Lesaffre
     Ethanol Red (available from Red Star/Lesaffre, USA), FALI* (available from
     Fleischmann's Yeast, a division of Bums Philip Food Inc., USA), SUPERSTART*
     (available from Alltech, now Lalemand), GERT STRAND (available from Gert Strand
     AB, Sweden) and FERMOL (available from DSM Specialties).
                                             DISTILLATION
     [00175]       After fermentation, the resulting fluids can be distilled using, for example, a
     "beer column" to separate ethanol and other alcohols from the majority of water and
     residual solids. The vapor exiting the beer column can be, e.g., 35% by weight ethanol
     and can be fed to a rectification column. A mixture of nearly azeotropic (92.5%) ethanol
     and water from the rectification column can be purified to pure (99.5%) ethanol using
     vapor-phase molecular sieves. The beer column bottoms can be sent to the first effect of
     a three-effect evaporator. The rectification column reflux condenser can provide heat for
     this first effect. After the first effect, solids can be separated using a centrifuge and dried
     in a rotary dryer. A portion (25%) of the centrifuge effluent can be recycled to
     fermentation and the rest sent to the second and third evaporator effects. Most of the
     evaporator condensate can be returned to the process as fairly clean condensate with a
     small portion split off to waste water treatment to prevent build-up of low-boiling
     compounds.
                          HYDROCARBON-CONTAINING MATERIALS
     [00176]       In other embodiments utilizing the methods and systems described herein,
     hydrocarbon-containing materials, for example that are mixed with biomass can be
     processed. Any process described herein can be used to treat any hydrocarbon-containing
     material herein described. "Hydrocarbon-containing materials," as used herein, is meant
     to include oil sands, oil shale, tar sands, coal dust, coal slurry, bitumen, various types of
     coal, and other naturally-occurring and synthetic materials that include both hydrocarbon
                                                       48

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
     components and solid matter. The solid matter can include wood, rock, sand, clay, stone,
     silt, drilling slurry, or other solid organic and/or inorganic matter. The term can also
     include waste products such as drilling waste and by-products, refining waste and by
     products, or other waste products containing hydrocarbon components, such as asphalt
     shingling and covering, asphalt pavement, etc.
                                         CONVEYING SYSTEMS
     [00177]       Various conveying systems can be used to convey the biomass material, for
     example, as previously discussed, to a vault, and under an electron beam in a vault.
     Exemplary conveyors are belt conveyors, pneumatic conveyors, screw conveyors, carts,
     trains, trains or carts on rails, elevators, front loaders, backhoes, cranes, various scrapers
     and shovels, trucks, and throwing devices can be used. For example, vibratory conveyors
     can be used in various processes described herein. Vibratory conveyors are described in
     PCT/US2013/64289 filed October 10, 2013 the full disclosure of which is incorporated
     by reference herein.
     [00178]       Vibratory conveyors are particularly useful for spreading the material and
     producing a uniform layer on the conveyor trough surface. For example the initial
     feedstock can form a pile of material that can be at least four feet high (e.g., at least
     about 3 feet, at least about 2 feet, at least about 1 foot, at least about 6 inches, at least
     about 5 inches, at least about, 4 inches, at least about 3 inches, at least about 2 inches, at
     least about 1 inch, at least about      inch) and spans less than the width of the conveyor
     (e.g., less than about 10%, less than about 20%, less than about 30%, less than about
     40%, less than about 50%, less than about 60%, less than about 70%, less than about
     80%, less than about 90%, less than about 95%, less than about 99%). The vibratory
     conveyor can spread the material to span the entire width of the conveyor trough and
     have a uniform thickness, preferably as discussed above. In some cases, an additional
     spreading method can be useful. For example, a spreader such as a broadcast spreader, a
     drop spreader (e.g., a CHRISTY SPREADERTM) or combinations thereof can be used to
     drop (e.g., place, pour, spill and/or sprinkle) the feedstock over a wide area. Optionally,
     the spreader can deliver the biomass as a wide shower or curtain onto the vibratory
     conveyor. Additionally, a second conveyor, upstream from the first conveyor (e.g., the
     first conveyor is used in the irradiation of the feedstock), can drop biomass onto the first
     conveyor, where the second conveyor can have a width transverse to the direction of
     conveying smaller than the first conveyor. In particular, when the second conveyor is a
                                                      49

WO 2014/138600                                                                   PCT/US2014/021815
     vibratory conveyor, the feedstock is spread by the action of the second and first
     conveyor. In some optional embodiments, the second conveyor ends in a bias cross cut
     discharge (e.g., a bias cut with a ratio of 4:1) so that the material can be dropped as a
     wide curtain (e.g., wider than the width of the second conveyor) onto the first conveyor.
     The initial drop area of the biomass by the spreader (e.g., broadcast spreader, drop
     spreader, conveyor, or cross cut vibratory conveyor) can span the entire width of the first
     vibratory conveyor, or it can span part of this width. Once dropped onto the conveyor,
     the material is spread even more uniformly by the vibrations of the conveyor so that,
     preferably, the entire width of the conveyor is covered with a uniform layer of biomass.
     In some embodiments combinations of spreaders can be used. Some methods of
     spreading a feed stock are described in U.S. Patent No. 7,153,533, filed July 23, 2002
     and published December 26, 2006, the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein
     by reference.
     [00179]      Generally, it is preferred to convey the material as quickly as possible through
     an electron beam to maximize throughput. For example, the material can be conveyed at
     rates of at least 1 ft/min, e.g., at least 2 ft/min, at least 3 ft/min, at least 4 ft/min, at least 5
     ft/min, at least 10 ft/min, at least 15 ft/min, at least 20 ft/min, at least 25 ft/min, at least
     30 ft/min, at least 40 ft/min, at least 50 ft/min, at least 60 ft/min, at least 70 ft/min, at
     least 80 ft/min, at least 90 ft/min. The rate of conveying is related to the beam current
     and targeted irradiation dose, for example, for a         inch thick biomass spread over a 5.5
     foot wide conveyor and 100 mA, the conveyor can move at about 20 ft/min to provide a
     useful irradiation dosage (e.g. about 10 Mrad for a single pass), at 50 mA the conveyor
     can move at about 10 ft/min to provide approximately the same irradiation dosage.
     [00180]      The rate at which material can be conveyed depends on the shape and mass of
     the material being conveyed, and the desired treatment. Flowing materials e.g.,
     particulate materials, are particularly amenable to conveying with vibratory conveyors.
     Conveying speeds can, for example be, at least 100 lb/hr (e.g., at least 500 lb/hr, at least
     1000 lb/hr, at least 2000 lb/hr, at least 3000 lb/hr, at least 4000 lb/hr, at least 5000 lb/hr,
     at least 10,000 lb/hr, at least 15, 000 lb/hr, or even at least 25,000 lb/hr). Some typical
     conveying speeds can be between about 1000 and 10,000 lb/hr, (e.g., between about
     1000 lb/hr and 8000 lb/hr, between about 2000 and 7000 lb/hr, between about 2000 and
     6000 lb/hr, between about 2000 and 5000lb/hr, between about 2000 and 4500 lb/hr,
     between about 1500 and 5000 lb/hr, between about 3000 and 7000 lb/hr, between about
     3000 and 6000 lb/hr, between about 4000 and 6000 lb/hr and between about 4000 and
     5000 lb/hr). Typical conveying speeds depend on the density of the material. For
                                                      50

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
     example, for a biomass with a density of about 35 lb/ft3, and a conveying speed of about
     5000 lb/hr, the material is conveyed at a rate of about 143 ft3/hr, if the material is     "
     thick and is in a trough 5.5 ft wide, the material is conveyed at a rate of about 1250 ft/hr
     (about 21 ft/min). Rates of conveying the material can therefore vary greatly. Preferably,
     for example, a     " thick layer of biomass, is conveyed at speeds of between about 5 and
     100 ft/min (e.g. between about 5 and 100 ft/min, between about 6 and 100 ft/min,
     between about 7 and 100 ft/min, between about 8 and 100 ft/min, between about 9 and
     100 ft/min, between about 10 and 100 ft/min, between about 11 and 100 ft/min, between
     about 12 and 100 ft/min, between about 13 and 100 ft/min, between about 14 and 100
     ft/min, between about 15 and 100 ft/min, between about 20 and 100 ft/min, between
     about 30 and 100 ft/min, between about 40 and 100 ft/min, between about 2 and 60
     ft/min, between about 3 and 60 ft/min, between about 5 and 60 ft/min, between about 6
     and 60 ft/min, between about 7 and 60 ft/min, between about 8 and 60 ft/min, between
     about 9 and 60 ft/min, between about 10 and 60 ft/min, between about 15 and 60 ft/min,
     between about 20 and 60 ft/min, between about 30 and 60 ft/min, between about 40 and
     60 ft/min, between about 2 and 50 ft/min, between about 3 and 50 ft/min, between about
     5 and 50 ft/min, between about 6 and 50 ft/min, between about 7 and 50 ft/min, between
     about 8 and 50 ft/min, between about 9 and 50 ft/min, between about 10 and 50 ft/min,
     between about 15 and 50 ft/min, between about 20 and 50 ft/min, between about 30 and
     50 ft/min, between about 40 and 50 ft/min). It is preferable that the material be conveyed
     at a constant rate, for example, to help maintain a constant irradiation of the material as it
     passes under the electron beam (e.g., shower, field).
     [00181]      The vibratory conveyors described can include screens used for sieving and
     sorting materials. Port openings on the side or bottom of the troughs can be used for
     sorting, selecting or removing specific materials, for example, by size or shape. Some
     conveyors have counterbalances to reduce the dynamic forces on the support structure.
     Some vibratory conveyors are configured as spiral elevators, are designed to curve
     around surfaces and/or are designed to drop material from one conveyor to another (e.g.,
     in a step, cascade or as a series of steps or a stair). Along with conveying materials
     conveyors can be used, by themselves or coupled with other equipment or systems, for
     screening, separating, sorting, classifying, distributing, sizing, inspection, picking, metal
     removing, freezing, blending, mixing, orienting, heating, cooking, drying, dewatering,
     cleaning, washing, leaching, quenching, coating, de-dusting and/or feeding. The
     conveyors can also include covers (e.g., dust-tight covers), side discharge gates, bottom
     discharge gates, special liners (e.g., anti-stick, stainless steel, rubber, custom steal, and or
                                                     51

WO 2014/138600                                                            PCT/US2014/021815
     grooved), divided troughs, quench pools, screens, perforated plates, detectors (e.g., metal
     detectors), high temperature designs, food grade designs, heaters, dryers and or coolers.
     In addition, the trough can be of various shapes, for example, flat bottomed, vee shaped
     bottom, flanged at the top, curved bottom, flat with ridges in any direction, tubular, half
     pipe, covered or any combinations of these. In particular, the conveyors can be coupled
     with an irradiation systems and/or equipment.
     [00182]     The conveyors (e.g., vibratory conveyor) can be made of corrosion resistant
     materials. The conveyors can utilize structural materials that include stainless steel (e.g.,
     304, 316 stainless steel, HASTELLOY@ ALLOYS and INCONEL@ Alloys). For
     example, HASTELLOY@ Corrosion-Resistant alloys from Hynes (Kokomo, Indiana,
     USA) such as HASTELLOY@ B-3@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ HYBRID-BC1@
     ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-4 ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-22@ ALLOY,
     HASTELLOY@ C-22HS@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ C-276 ALLOY, HASTELLOY@
     C-2000@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ G-30@ ALLOY, HASTELLOY@ G-35@ ALLOY,
     HASTELLOY@ N ALLOY and HASTELLOY@ ULTIMET@ alloy.
     [00183]     The vibratory conveyors can include non-stick release coatings, for example,
     TUFFLONTM (Dupont, Delaware, USA). The vibratory conveyors can also include
     corrosion resistant coatings. For example, coatings that can be supplied from Metal
     Coatings Corp (Houston, Texas, USA) and others such as Fluoropolymer, XYLAN@,
     Molybdenum Disulfide, Epoxy Phenolic, Phosphate- ferrous metal coating,
     Polyurethane- high gloss topcoat for epoxy, inorganic zinc, Poly Tetrafluoro ethylene,
     PPS/RYTON@, fluorinated ethylene propylene, PVDF/DYKOR@, ECTFE/HALAR@
     and Ceramic Epoxy Coating. The coatings can improve resistance to process gases (e.g.,
     ozone), chemical corrosion, pitting corrosion, galling corrosion and oxidation.
     [00184]     Optionally, in addition to the conveying systems described herein, one or
     more other conveying systems can be enclosed. When using an enclosure, the enclosed
     conveyor can also be purged with an inert gas so as to maintain an atmosphere at a
     reduced oxygen level. Keeping oxygen levels low avoids the formation of ozone which
     in some instances is undesirable due to its reactive and toxic nature. For example, the
     oxygen can be less than about 20% (e.g., less than about 10%, less than about 1%, less
     than about 0.1%, less than about 0.01%, or even less than about 0.001% oxygen).
     Purging can be done with an inert gas including, but not limited to, nitrogen, argon,
     helium or carbon dioxide. This can be supplied, for example, from a boil off of a liquid
     source (e.g., liquid nitrogen or helium), generated or separated from air in situ, or
     supplied from tanks. The inert gas can be recirculated and any residual oxygen can be
                                                  52

WO 2014/138600                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
     removed using a catalyst, such as a copper catalyst bed. Alternatively, combinations of
     purging, recirculating and oxygen removal can be done to keep the oxygen levels low.
     [00185]      The enclosed conveyor can also be purged with a reactive gas that can react
     with the biomass. This can be done before, during or after the irradiation process. The
     reactive gas can be, but is not limited to, nitrous oxide, ammonia, oxygen, ozone,
     hydrocarbons, aromatic compounds, amides, peroxides, azides, halides, oxyhalides,
     phosphides, phosphines, arsines, sulfides, thiols, boranes and/or hydrides. The reactive
     gas can be activated in the enclosure, e.g., by irradiation (e.g., electron beam, UV
     irradiation, microwave irradiation, heating, IR radiation), so that it reacts with the
     biomass. The biomass itself can be activated, for example by irradiation. Preferably the
     biomass is activated by the electron beam, to produce radicals which then react with the
     activated or unactivated reactive gas, e.g., by radical coupling or quenching.
     [00186]      Purging gases supplied to an enclosed conveyor can also be cooled, for
     example below about 25'C, below about 00 C, below about -40'C, below about -80'C,
     below about -120'C. For example, the gas can be boiled off from a compressed gas such
     as liquid nitrogen or sublimed from solid carbon dioxide. As an alternative example, the
     gas can be cooled by a chiller or part of or the entire conveyor can be cooled.
                                     OTHER EMBODIMENTS
     [00187]      Any material, processes or processed materials discussed herein can be used
     to make products and/or intermediates such as composites, fillers, binders, plastic
     additives, adsorbents and controlled release agents. The methods can include
     densification, for example, by applying pressure and heat to the materials. For example
     composites can be made by combining fibrous materials with a resin or polymer. For
     example, radiation cross-linkable resin, e.g., a thermoplastic resin can be combined with
     a fibrous material to provide a fibrous material/cross-linkable resin combination. Such
     materials can be, for example, useful as building materials, protective sheets, containers
     and other structural materials (e.g., molded and/or extruded products). Absorbents can
     be, for example, in the form of pellets, chips, fibers and/or sheets. Adsorbents can be
     used, for example, as pet bedding, packaging material or in pollution control systems.
     Controlled release matrices can also be the form of, for example, pellets, chips, fibers
     and or sheets. The controlled release matrices can, for example, be used to release drugs,
     biocides, fragrances. For example, composites, absorbents and control release agents
     and their uses are described in International Serial No. PCT/US2006/010648, filed
                                                    53

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
     March 23, 2006, and U.S. Patent No. 8,074,910 filed November 22, 2011, the entire
     disclosures of which are herein incorporated by reference.
     [00188]      In some instances the biomass material is treated at a first level to reduce
     recalcitrance, e.g., utilizing accelerated electrons, to selectively release one or more
     sugars (e.g., xylose). The biomass can then be treated to a second level to release one or
     more other sugars (e.g., glucose). Optionally, the biomass can be dried between
     treatments. The treatments can include applying chemical and biochemical treatments to
     release the sugars. For example, a biomass material can be treated to a level of less than
     about 20 Mrad (e.g., less than about 15 Mrad, less than about 10 Mrad, less than about 5
     Mrad, less than about 2 Mrad) and then treated with a solution of sulfuric acid,
     containing less than 10% sulfuric acid (e.g., less than about 9%, less than about 8%, less
     than about 7%, less than about 6%, less than about 5%, less than about 4%, less than
     about 3%, less than about 2%, less than about 1%, less than about 0.75%, less than about
     0.50 %, less than about 0.25%) to release xylose. Xylose, for example, that is released
     into solution, can be separated from solids and optionally the solids washed with a
     solvent/solution (e.g., with water and/or acidified water). Optionally, the solids can be
     dried, for example in air and/or under vacuum optionally with heating (e.g., below about
     150 deg C, below about 120 deg C) to a water content below about 25 wt.% (below
     about 20 wt.%, below about 15 wt.%, below about 10 wt.%, below about 5 wt.%). The
     solids can then be treated with a level of less than about 30 Mrad (e.g., less than about 25
     Mrad, less than about 20 Mrad, less than about 15 Mrad, less than about 10 Mrad, less
     than about 5 Mrad, less than about 1 Mrad or even not at all) and then treated with an
     enzyme (e.g., a cellulase) to release glucose. The glucose (e.g., glucose in solution) can
     be separated from the remaining solids. The solids can then be further processed, for
     example, utilized to make energy or other products (e.g., lignin derived products).
                            FLAVORS, FRAGRANCES AND COLORS
     [00189]      Any of the products and/or intermediates described herein, for example,
     produced by the processes, systems and/or equipment described herein, can be combined
     with flavors, fragrances, colorants and/or mixtures of these. For example, any one or
     more of (optionally along with flavors, fragrances and/or colorants) sugars, organic
     acids, fuels, polyols, such as sugar alcohols, biomass, fibers and composites can be
     combined with (e.g., formulated, mixed or reacted) or used to make other products. For
     example, one or more such product can be used to make soaps, detergents, candies,
                                                    54

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
     drinks (e.g., cola, wine, beer, liquors such as gin or vodka, sports drinks, coffees, teas),
     syrups, pharmaceuticals, adhesives, sheets (e.g., woven, none woven, filters, tissues)
     and/or composites (e.g., boards). For example, one or more such product can be
     combined with herbs, flowers, petals, spices, vitamins, potpourri, or candles. For
     example, the formulated, mixed or reacted combinations can have flavors/fragrances of
     grapefruit, orange, apple, raspberry, banana, lettuce, celery, cinnamon, chocolate, vanilla,
     peppermint, mint, onion, garlic, pepper, saffron, ginger, milk, wine, beer, tea, lean beef,
     fish, clams, olive oil, coconut fat, pork fat, butter fat, beef bouillon, legume, potatoes,
     marmalade, ham, coffee and cheeses.
     [00190]      Flavors, fragrances and colorants can be added in any amount, such as
     between about 0.001 wt.% to about 30 wt.%, e.g., between about 0.01 to about 20,
     between about 0.05 to about 10, or between about 0.1 wt.% to about 5 wt.%. These can
     be formulated, mixed and/or reacted (e.g., with any one of more product or intermediate
     described herein) by any means and in any order or sequence (e.g., agitated, mixed,
     emulsified, gelled, infused, heated, sonicated, and/or suspended). Fillers, binders,
     emulsifier, antioxidants can also be utilized, for example, protein gels, starches and
     silica.
     [00191]       In one embodiment the flavors, fragrances and colorants can be added to the
     biomass immediately after the biomass is irradiated such that the reactive sites created by
     the irradiation may react with reactive compatible sites of the flavors, fragrances, and
     colorants.
     [00192]      The flavors, fragrances and colorants can be natural and/or synthetic
     materials. These materials can be one or more of a compound, a composition or mixtures
     of these (e.g., a formulated or natural composition of several compounds). Optionally,
     the flavors, fragrances, antioxidants and colorants can be derived biologically, for
     example, from a fermentation process (e.g., fermentation of saccharified materials as
     described herein). Alternatively, or additionally these flavors, fragrances and colorants
     can be harvested from a whole organism (e.g., plant, fungus, animal, bacteria or yeast) or
     a part of an organism. The organism can be collected and/or extracted to provide color,
     flavors, fragrances and/or antioxidant by any means including utilizing the methods,
     systems and equipment described herein, hot water extraction, supercritical fluid
     extraction, chemical extraction (e.g., solvent or reactive extraction including acids and
     bases), mechanical extraction (e.g., pressing, comminuting, filtering), utilizing an
     enzyme, utilizing a bacteria such as to break down a starting material, and combinations
     of these methods. The compounds can be derived by a chemical reaction, for example,
                                                    55

WO 2014/138600                                                             PCT/US2014/021815
     the combination of a sugar (e.g., as produced as described herein) with an amino acid
     (Maillard reaction). The flavor, fragrance, antioxidant and/or colorant can be an
     intermediate and/or product produced by the methods, equipment or systems described
     herein, for example, and ester and a lignin derived product.
     [00193]     Some examples of flavor, fragrances or colorants are polyphenols.
     Polyphenols are pigments responsible for the red, purple and blue colorants of many
     fruits, vegetables, cereal grains, and flowers. Polyphenols also can have antioxidant
     properties and often have a bitter taste. The antioxidant properties make these important
     preservatives. On class of polyphenols are the flavonoids, such as Anthocyanidines,
     flavanonols, flavan-3-ols, flavanones and flavanonols. Other phenolic compounds that
     can be used include phenolic acids and their esters, such as chlorogenic acid and
     polymeric tannins.
     [00194]     Among the colorants inorganic compounds, minerals or organic compounds
     can be used, for example titanium dioxide, zinc oxide, aluminum oxide, cadmium yellow
     (E.g., CdS), cadmium orange (e.g., CdS with some Se), alizarin crimson (e.g., synthetic
     or non-synthetic rose madder), ultramarine (e.g., synthetic ultramarine, natural
     ultramarine, synthetic ultramarine violet ), cobalt blue, cobalt yellow, cobalt green,
     viridian (e.g., hydrated chromium(III)oxide), chalcophylite, conichalcite, cornubite,
     cornwallite and liroconite. Black pigments such as carbon black and self-dispersed
     blacks may be used.
     [00195]     Some flavors and fragrances that can be utilized include ACALEA TBHQ,
     ACET C-6, ALLYL AMYL GLYCOLATE, ALPHA TERPINEOL, AMBRETTOLIDE,
     AMBRINOL 95, ANDRANE, APHERMATE, APPLELIDE, BACDANOL@,
     BERGAMAL, BETA IONONE EPOXIDE, BETA NAPHTHYL ISO-BUTYL ETHER,
     BICYCLONONALACTONE, BORNAFIX@, CANTHOXAL, CASHMERAN@,
     CASHMERAN@ VELVET, CASSIFFIX@, CEDRAFIX, CEDRAMBER@, CEDRYL
     ACETATE, CELESTOLIDE, CINNAMALVA, CITRAL DIMETHYL ACETATE,
     CITROLATETM, CITRONELLOL 700, CITRONELLOL 950, CITRONELLOL
     COEUR, CITRONELLYL ACETATE, CITRONELLYL ACETATE PURE,
     CITRONELLYL FORMATE, CLARYCET, CLONAL, CONIFERAN, CONIFERAN
     PURE, CORTEX ALDEHYDE 50% PEOMOSA, CYCLABUTE, CYCLACET@,
     CYCLAPROP@, CYCLEMAXTM, CYCLOHEXYL ETHYL ACETATE, DAMASCOL,
     DELTA DAMASCONE, DIHYDRO CYCLACET, DIHYDRO MYRCENOL,
     DIHYDRO TERPINEOL, DIHYDRO TERPINYL ACETATE, DIMETHYL
     CYCLORMOL, DIMETHYL OCTANOL PQ, DIMYRCETOL, DIOLA, DIPENTENE,
                                                   56

WO 2014/138600                                          PCT/US2014/021815
     DULCINYL@ RECRYSTALLIZED, ETHYL-3-PHENYL GLYCIDATE,
     FLEURAMONE, FLEURANIL, FLORAL SUPER, FLORALOZONE, FLORIFFOL,
     FRAISTONE, FRUCTONE, GALAXOLIDE@ 50, GALAXOLIDE@ 50 BB,
     GALAXOLIDE@ 50 IPM, GALAXOLIDE@ UNDILUTED, GALBASCONE,
     GERALDEHYDE, GERANIOL 5020, GERANIOL 600 TYPE, GERANIOL 950,
     GERANIOL 980 (PURE), GERANIOL CFT COEUR, GERANIOL COEUR,
     GERANYL ACETATE COEUR, GERANYL ACETATE, PURE, GERANYL
     FORMATE, GRISALVA, GUAIYL ACETATE, HELIONALTM, HERBAC,
     HERBALIMETM, HEXADECANOLIDE, HEXALON, HEXENYL SALICYLATE CIS
     3-, HYACINTH BODY, HYACINTH BODY NO. 3, HYDRATROPIC
     ALDEHYDE.DMA, HYDROXYOL, INDOLAROME, INTRELEVEN ALDEHYDE,
     INTRELEVEN ALDEHYDE SPECIAL, IONONE ALPHA, IONONE BETA, ISO
     CYCLO CITRAL, ISO CYCLO GERANIOL, ISO E SUPER@, ISOBUTYL
     QUINOLINE, JASMAL, JESSEMAL@, KHARISMAL@, KHARISMAL@ SUPER,
     KHUSINIL, KOAVONE@, KOHINOOL@, LIFFAROMETM, LIMOXAL,
     LINDENOLTM, LYRAL@, LYRAME SUPER, MANDARIN ALD 10% TRI ETH,
     CITR, MARITIMA, MCK CHINESE, MEIJIFFTM, MELAFLEUR, MELOZONE,
     METHYL ANTHRANILATE, METHYL IONONE ALPHA EXTRA, METHYL
     IONONE GAMMA A, METHYL IONONE GAMMA COEUR, METHYL IONONE
     GAMMA PURE, METHYL LAVENDER KETONE, MONTAVERDI@, MUGUESIA,
     MUGUET ALDEHYDE 50, MUSK Z4, MYRAC ALDEHYDE, MYRCENYL
     ACETATE, NECTARATETM, NEROL 900, NERYL ACETATE, OCIMENE,
     OCTACETAL, ORANGE FLOWER ETHER, ORIVONE, ORRINIFF 25%,
     OXASPIRANE, OZOFLEUR, PAMPLEFLEUR@, PEOMOSA, PHENOXANOL@,
     PICONIA, PRECYCLEMONE B, PRENYL ACETATE, PRISMANTOL, RESEDA
     BODY, ROSALVA, ROSAMUSK, SANJINOL, SANTALIFFTM, SYVERTAL,
     TERPINEOL,TERPINOLENE 20, TERPINOLENE 90 PQ, TERPINOLENE RECT.,
     TERPINYL ACETATE, TERPINYL ACETATE JAX, TETRAHYDRO, MUGUOL@,
     TETRAHYDRO MYRCENOL, TETRAMERAN, TIMBERSILKTM, TOBACAROL,
     TRIMOFIX@ 0 TT, TRIPLAL@, TRISAMBER@, VANORIS, VERDOXTM
     VERDOXTM HC, VERTENEX@, VERTENEX@ HC, VERTOFIX@ COEUR,
     VERTOLIFF, VERTOLIFF ISO, VIOLIFF, VIVALDIE, ZENOLIDE, ABS INDIA 75
     PCT MIGLYOL, ABS MOROCCO 50 PCT DPG, ABS MOROCCO 50 PCT TEC,
     ABSOLUTE FRENCH, ABSOLUTE INDIA, ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB,
     ABSOLUTE MOROCCO, CONCENTRATE PG, TINCTURE 20 PCT, AMBERGRIS,
                                      57

WO 2014/138600                                           PCT/US2014/021815
     AMBRETTE ABSOLUTE, AMBRETTE SEED OIL, ARMOISE OIL 70 PCT
     THUYONE, BASIL ABSOLUTE GRAND VERT, BASIL GRAND VERT ABS MD,
     BASIL OIL GRAND VERT, BASIL OIL VERVEINA, BASIL OIL VIETNAM, BAY
     OIL TERPENELESS, BEESWAX ABS N G, BEESWAX ABSOLUTE, BENZOIN
     RESINOID SIAM, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM 50 PCT DPG, BENZOIN RESINOID
     SIAM 50 PCT PG, BENZOIN RESINOID SIAM 70.5 PCT TEC, BLACKCURRANT
     BUD ABS 65 PCT PG, BLACKCURRANT BUD ABS MD 37 PCT TEC,
     BLACKCURRANT BUD ABS MIGLYOL, BLACKCURRANT BUD ABSOLUTE
     BURGUNDY, BOIS DE ROSE OIL, BRAN ABSOLUTE, BRAN RESINOID,
     BROOM ABSOLUTE ITALY, CARDAMOM GUATEMALA C02 EXTRACT,
     CARDAMOM OIL GUATEMALA, CARDAMOM OIL INDIA, CARROT HEART,
     CASSIE ABSOLUTE EGYPT, CASSIE ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT IPM, CASTOREUM
     ABS 90 PCT TEC, CASTOREUM ABS C 50 PCT MIGLYOL, CASTOREUM
     ABSOLUTE, CASTOREUM RESINOID, CASTOREUM RESINOID 50 PCT DPG,
     CEDROL CEDRENE, CEDRUS ATLANTICA OIL REDIST, CHAMOMILE OIL
     ROMAN, CHAMOMILE OIL WILD, CHAMOMILE OIL WILD LOW LIMONENE,
     CINNAMON BARK OIL CEYLAN, CISTE ABSOLUTE, CISTE ABSOLUTE
     COLORLESS, CITRONELLA OIL ASIA IRON FREE, CIVET ABS 75 PCT PG,
     CIVET ABSOLUTE, CIVET TINCTURE 10 PCT, CLARY SAGE ABS FRENCH
     DECOL, CLARY SAGE ABSOLUTE FRENCH, CLARY SAGE C'LESS 50 PCT PG,
     CLARY SAGE OIL FRENCH, COPAIBA BALSAM, COPAIBA BALSAM OIL,
     CORIANDER SEED OIL, CYPRESS OIL, CYPRESS OIL ORGANIC, DAVANA OIL,
     GALBANOL, GALBANUM ABSOLUTE COLORLESS, GALBANUM OIL,
     GALBANUM RESINOID, GALBANUM RESINOID 50 PCT DPG, GALBANUM
     RESINOID HERCOLYN BHT, GALBANUM RESINOID TEC BHT, GENTIANE
     ABSOLUTE MD 20 PCT BB, GENTIANE CONCRETE, GERANIUM ABS EGYPT
     MD, GERANIUM ABSOLUTE EGYPT, GERANIUM OIL CHINA, GERANIUM OIL
     EGYPT, GINGER OIL 624, GINGER OIL RECTIFIED SOLUBLE, GUAIACWOOD
     HEART, HAY ABS MD 50 PCT BB, HAY ABSOLUTE, HAY ABSOLUTE MD 50
     PCT TEC, HEALINGWOOD, HYSSOP OIL ORGANIC, IMMORTELLE ABS YUGO
     MD 50 PCT TEC, IMMORTELLE ABSOLUTE SPAIN, IMMORTELLE ABSOLUTE
     YUGO, JASMIN ABS INDIA MD, JASMIN ABSOLUTE EGYPT, JASMIN
     ABSOLUTE INDIA, ASMIN ABSOLUTE MOROCCO, JASMIN ABSOLUTE
     SAMBAC, JONQUILLE ABS MD 20 PCT BB, JONQUILLE ABSOLUTE France,
     JUNIPER BERRY OIL FLG, JUNIPER BERRY OIL RECTIFIED SOLUBLE,
                                      58

WO 2014/138600                                         PCT/US2014/021815
     LABDANUM RESINOID 50 PCT TEC, LABDANUM RESINOID BB, LABDANUM
     RESINOID MD, LABDANUM RESINOID MD 50 PCT BB, LAVANDIN ABSOLUTE
     H, LAVANDIN ABSOLUTE MD, LAVANDIN OIL ABRIAL ORGANIC,
     LAVANDIN OIL GROSSO ORGANIC, LAVANDIN OIL SUPER, LAVENDER
     ABSOLUTE H, LAVENDER ABSOLUTE MD, LAVENDER OIL COUMARIN
     FREE, LAVENDER OIL COUMARIN FREE ORGANIC, LAVENDER OIL
     MAILLETTE ORGANIC, LAVENDER OIL MT, MACE ABSOLUTE BB,
     MAGNOLIA FLOWER OIL LOW METHYL EUGENOL, MAGNOLIA FLOWER
     OIL, MAGNOLIA FLOWER OIL MD, MAGNOLIA LEAF OIL, MANDARIN OIL
     MD, MANDARIN OIL MD BHT, MATE ABSOLUTE BB, MOSS TREE ABSOLUTE
     MD TEX IFRA 43, MOSS-OAK ABS MD TEC IFRA 43, MOSS-OAK ABSOLUTE
     IFRA 43, MOSS-TREE ABSOLUTE MD IPM IFRA 43, MYRRH RESINOID BB,
     MYRRH RESINOID MD, MYRRH RESINOID TEC, MYRTLE OIL IRON FREE,
     MYRTLE OIL TUNISIA RECTIFIED, NARCISSE ABS MD 20 PCT BB, NARCISSE
     ABSOLUTE FRENCH, NEROLI OIL TUNISIA, NUTMEG OIL TERPENELESS,
     OEILLET ABSOLUTE, OLIBANUM RESINOID, OLIBANUM RESINOID BB,
     OLIBANUM RESINOID DPG, OLIBANUM RESINOID EXTRA 50 PCT DPG,
     OLIBANUM RESINOID MD, OLIBANUM RESINOID MD 50 PCT DPG,
     OLIBANUM RESINOID TEC, OPOPONAX RESINOID TEC, ORANGE BIGARADE
     OIL MD BHT, ORANGE BIGARADE OIL MD SCFC, ORANGE FLOWER
     ABSOLUTE TUNISIA, ORANGE FLOWER WATER ABSOLUTE TUNISIA,
     ORANGE LEAF ABSOLUTE, ORANGE LEAF WATER ABSOLUTE TUNISIA,
     ORRIS ABSOLUTE ITALY, ORRIS CONCRETE 15 PCT IRONE, ORRIS
     CONCRETE 8 PCT IRONE, ORRIS NATURAL 15 PCT IRONE 4095C, ORRIS
     NATURAL 8 PCT IRONE 2942C, ORRIS RESINOID, OSMANTHUS ABSOLUTE,
     OSMANTHUS ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB, PATCHOULI HEART N-3,
     PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA, PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA IRON FREE,
     PATCHOULI OIL INDONESIA MD, PATCHOULI OIL REDIST, PENNYROYAL
     HEART, PEPPERMINT ABSOLUTE MD, PETITGRAIN BIGARADE OIL TUNISIA,
     PETITGRAIN CITRONNIER OIL, PETITGRAIN OIL PARAGUAY TERPENELESS,
     PETITGRAIN OIL TERPENELESS STAB, PIMENTO BERRY OIL, PIMENTO LEAF
     OIL, RHODINOL EX GERANIUM CHINA, ROSE ABS BULGARIAN LOW
     METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE ABS MOROCCO LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE
     ABS TURKISH LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE ABSOLUTE, ROSE ABSOLUTE
     BULGARIAN, ROSE ABSOLUTE DAMASCENA, ROSE ABSOLUTE MD, ROSE
                                      59

WO 2014/138600                                                             PCT/US2014/021815
     ABSOLUTE MOROCCO, ROSE ABSOLUTE TURKISH, ROSE OIL BULGARIAN,
     ROSE OIL DAMASCENA LOW METHYL EUGENOL, ROSE OIL TURKISH,
     ROSEMARY OIL CAMPHOR ORGANIC, ROSEMARY OIL TUNISIA,
     SANDALWOOD OIL INDIA, SANDALWOOD OIL INDIA RECTIFIED,
     SANTALOL, SCHINUS MOLLE OIL, ST JOHN BREAD TINCTURE 10 PCT,
     STYRAX RESINOID, STYRAX RESINOID, TAGETE OIL, TEA TREE HEART,
     TONKA BEAN ABS 50 PCT SOLVENTS, TONKA BEAN ABSOLUTE, TUBEROSE
     ABSOLUTE INDIA, VETIVER HEART EXTRA, VETIVER OIL HAITI, VETIVER
     OIL HAITI MD, VETIVER OIL JAVA, VETIVER OIL JAVA MD, VIOLET LEAF
     ABSOLUTE EGYPT, VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE EGYPT DECOL, VIOLET LEAF
     ABSOLUTE FRENCH, VIOLET LEAF ABSOLUTE MD 50 PCT BB, WORMWOOD
     OIL TERPENELESS, YLANG EXTRA OIL, YLANG III OIL and combinations of
     these.
     [00196]     The colorants can be among those listed in the Color Index International by
     the Society of Dyers and Colourists. Colorants include dyes and pigments and include
     those commonly used for coloring textiles, paints, inks and inkjet inks. Some colorants
     that can be utilized include carotenoids, arylide yellows, diarylide yellows, B-naphthols,
     naphthols, benzimidazolones, disazo condensation pigments, pyrazolones, nickel azo
     yellow, phthalocyanines, quinacridones, perylenes and perinones, isoindolinone and
     isoindoline pigments, triarylcarbonium pigments, diketopyrrolo-pyrrole pigments,
     thioindigoids. Cartenoids include, e.g., alpha-carotene, beta-carotene, gamma-carotene,
     lycopene, lutein and astaxanthinAnnatto extract, Dehydrated beets (beet powder),
     Canthaxanthin, Caramel, P-Apo-8'-carotenal, Cochineal extract, Carmine, Sodium
     copper chlorophyllin, Toasted partially defatted cooked cottonseed flour, Ferrous
     gluconate, Ferrous lactate, Grape color extract, Grape skin extract (enocianina), Carrot
     oil, Paprika, Paprika oleoresin, Mica-based pearlescent pigments, Riboflavin, Saffron,
     Titanium dioxide, Tomato lycopene extract; tomato lycopene concentrate, Turmeric,
     Turmeric oleoresin, FD&C Blue No. 1, FD&C Blue No. 2, FD&C Green No. 3, Orange
     B, Citrus Red No. 2, FD&C Red No. 3, FD&C Red No. 40, FD&C Yellow No. 5, FD&C
     Yellow No. 6, Alumina (dried aluminum hydroxide), Calcium carbonate, Potassium
     sodium copper chlorophyllin (chlorophyllin-copper complex), Dihydroxyacetone,
     Bismuth oxychloride, Ferric ammonium ferrocyanide, Ferric ferrocyanide, Chromium
     hydroxide green, Chromium oxide greens, Guanine, Pyrophyllite, Talc, Aluminum
     powder, Bronze powder, Copper powder, Zinc oxide, D&C Blue No. 4, D&C Green No.
     5, D&C Green No. 6, D&C Green No. 8, D&C Orange No. 4, D&C Orange No. 5, D&C
                                                  60

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     Orange No. 10, D&C Orange No. 11, D&C Red No. 4, D&C Red No. 6, D&C Red No.
     7, D&C Red No. 17, D&C Red No. 21, D&C Red No. 22, D&C Red No. 27, D&C Red
     No. 28, D&C Red No. 30, D&C Red No. 31, D&C Red No. 33, D&C Red No. 34, D&C
     Red No. 36, D&C Red No. 39, D&C Violet No. 2, D&C Yellow No. 7, Ext. D&C
     Yellow No. 7, D&C Yellow No. 8, D&C Yellow No. 10, D&C Yellow No. 11, D&C
     Black No. 2, D&C Black No. 3 (3), D&C Brown No. 1, Ext. D&C, Chromium-cobalt
     aluminum oxide, Ferric ammonium citrate, Pyrogallol, Logwood extract, 1,4-Bis[(2
     hydroxy-ethyl)amino]-9,10-anthracenedione bis(2-propenoic)ester copolymers, 1,4-Bis
     [(2-methylphenyl)amino] -9,10-anthracenedione, 1,4-Bis[4- (2-methacryloxyethyl)
     phenylamino] anthraquinone copolymers, Carbazole violet, Chlorophyllin-copper
     complex, Chromium-cobalt-aluminum oxide, C.I. Vat Orange 1, 2-[[2,5-Diethoxy- 4-[(4
     methylphenyl)thiol] phenyl]azo] -1,3,5-benzenetriol, 16,23-Dihydrodinaphtho [2,3
     a:2',3'-i] naphth [2',3':6,7] indolo [2,3-c] carbazole- 5,10,15,17,22,24-hexone, N,N'-(9,10
     Dihydro- 9,10-dioxo- 1,5-anthracenediyl) bisbenzamide, 7,16-Dichloro- 6,15-dihydro
     5,9,14,18-anthrazinetetrone, 16,17-Dimethoxydinaphtho (1,2,3-cd:3',2',1'-lm) perylene
     5,10-dione, Poly(hydroxyethyl methacrylate) -dye copolymers(3), Reactive Black 5,
     Reactive Blue 21, Reactive Orange 78, Reactive Yellow 15, Reactive Blue No. 19,
     Reactive Blue No. 4, C.I. Reactive Red 11, C.I. Reactive Yellow 86, C.I. Reactive Blue
     163, C.I. Reactive Red 180, 4-[(2,4-dimethylphenyl)azo]- 2,4-dihydro- 5-methyl-2
     phenyl- 3H-pyrazol-3-one (solvent Yellow 18), 6-Ethoxy-2- (6-ethoxy-3-oxobenzo[b]
     thien-2(3H)- ylidene) benzo[b]thiophen- 3(2H)-one, Phthalocyanine green, Vinyl
     alcohol/methyl methacrylate-dye reaction products, C.I. Reactive Red 180, C.I. Reactive
     Black 5, C.I. Reactive Orange 78, C.I. Reactive Yellow 15, C.I. Reactive Blue 21,
     Disodium 1-amino-4- [[4- [(2-bromo- 1-oxoallyl)amino] -2-sulphonatophenyl]amino] -9,10
     dihydro-9,10-dioxoanthracene-2-sulphonate (Reactive Blue 69), D&C Blue No. 9,
     [Phthalocyaninato(2-)] copper and mixtures of these.
                                               EXAMPLES
     [00197]      Concentrations were determined by HPLC in aqueous diluted and filtered
     solutions with appropriate standards.
     Saccharification
     [00198]      A cylindrical tank with a diameter of 32 Inches, 64 Inches in height and fit
     with ASME dished heads (top and bottom) was used in the saccharification. The tank
                                                     61

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     was also equipped with a hydrofoil mixing blade 16" wide. Heating was provided by
     flowing hot water through a half pipe jacket surrounding the tank.
     [00199]      The tank was charged with 200 Kg water, 80 Kg of biomass, and 18 Kg of
     Duetm Cellulase enzyme. Biomass was corn cob that had been hammer milled and
     screened to a size of between 40 and 10 mesh. The biomass was irradiated with an
     electron beam to a total dosage of 35 Mrad. The pH of the mixture was adjusted and
     maintained automatically throughout the saccharification at 4.8 using Ca(OH) 2. This
     combination was heated to 53 0C, stirred at 180 rpm (1.8 Amp at 460V) for about 24
     hours after which the saccharification was considered completed.
     A portion of this material was screened through a 20 mesh screen and the solution stored
     in an 8 gal carboy at 4 C.
     Biomass Produced Ethanol and Xylose Stream
     [00200]      About 400 mL of the saccharified material was decanted into a IL New
     Brunswick BioFlow 115 Bioreactor. The Material was aerated and heated to 30 0C prior
     to inoculation. Stirring was set at 50 rpm. The pH was measured at 5.2, which is
     acceptable for fermentation so it was not adjusted. Aeration was discontinued and the
     contents of the bioreactor were inoculated with 5 mg of Thermosacc Dry Yeast
     (Lallemand, Inc.). Fermentation was allowed to proceed for about 24 hours.
     [00201]      After fermentation the glucose concentration was below the detection limit,
     the ethanol concentration was about 25 g/L, and the xylose concentration was 30 g/L.
     Purification of Ethanol and Xylose Stream usin2 Desalination Electrodialysis
     [00202]      Four liters of post fermentation solution was concentrated under vacuo to
     about 1 3L. The concentrated, ethanol free, solution was then diluted back to its original
     volume with methanol. Addition of the methanol caused immediate formation and
     precipitation of solids. It was found that the precipitate can be effectively removed by
     centrifugation or filtration.
     [00203]      The solid free solution was then treated with 5% (by weight/volume)
     activated carbon to decolorize the solution. The carbon was removed by filtration and
     the filtrate was then concentrated in vacuo to remove methanol. The solution was
     subsequently diluted to its original volume with de-ionized water.
     [00204]      Two Liters of the decolorized solution was then subjected to electrodialysis.
     The voltage across a stack of 20 membranes was 40 V. The conductivity, temperature
     and pH were measured. FIG. 3 is a plot of the conductivity vs time in the dilute streams.
     The experiment lasted for 71 min wherein the conductivity decreased from 7830 pS/cm
                                                   62

WO 2014/138600                                                           PCT/US2014/021815
     to 9 p S/cm, the temperature increased from to 25 deg. C to 33 deg. C and the measured
     pH decreased from about 4.8 to 4.0.
     [00205]     Elemental analysis (JCP) showed the improvement in reducing the ions
     throughout the processing. Elemental analysis was done in duplicate or triplicate.
                                                63

WO 2014/138600                                                        PCT/US2014/021815
                            Table 1: Post Fermentation Elemental Analysis.
               Element     Run 1 (PPM) Run 2 (PPM)          Average Conc. (PPM)
                   P         200.487         207.757                204.1
                   K         2575.76         2544.59               2560.2
                   Mg         659.075        646.172                652.6
                   Na         117.657        122.913                120.3
                   Ca         960.487        957.068                958.8
                   S          104.053        100.836                102.4
                        Table 2: Elemental Analysis post Methanol Treatment
               Element     Run 1 (PPM) Run 2 (PPM)          Average Conc. (PPM)
                   P          19.8376        17.6737                 18.8
                   K          926.542        1020.84                973.7
                   Mg        228.527         249.227                238.9
                   Na         53.6198        51.8139                 52.7
                   Ca         175.527        192.593                184.1
                   S          29.342         24.8865                 27.1
                      Table 3: Elemental Analysis Post Electrodialysis Treatment.
                          Run 1         Run 2         Run 3       Average Conc.
            Element       (PPM)         (PPM)         (PPM)            (PPM)
               Mn       0.330925      0.291988      0.276951              0.3
               Al       0.563302       0.52201       0.57087              0.6
               Zn       0.577498      0.608856      0.610446              0.6
                Si       5.65798       5.63068       5.77249              5.7
               Fe       0.601713      0.564221      0.548226              0.6
                P         2.9462       1.98296       2.30069              2.4
                K        2.85595       1.99511      0.614186              1.8
               Mg       0.606541      0.548299      0.564928              0.6
               Na        1.00027       0.82686       1.00563              0.9
               Ca        1.78259      0.894467       2.54184              1.7
                S        7.65224       7.32835       7.04753              7.3
                                                64

WO 2014/138600                                                           PCT/US2014/021815
     [00206]     Throughout the post fermentation processing the Xylose concentration
     remained constant at about 30 g/L with no apparent degradation.
     Biomass Produced L-lactic acid and Xylose Stream with Lactobacillus rhamnosus
     [00207]     Saccharified biomass made utilizing similar steps as described above was
     used as the sugar source to produce an L-lactic acid/xylose stream.
     [00208]     The glucose to L-Lactic acid fermenting organism Lactobacillusrhamnosus
     NRRL B-445 was grown in 25 mL of MRS medium (BD Diagnostic Systems No.:
     288130) from 250 uL freezer stocks. The culture was incubated overnight in a shaker
     incubator at 37 C and 150-200rpm.
     [00209]     Fermentation to produce the lactic acid was conducted in a bioreactor
     equipped with stirring paddle, heating mantel, stirring impellors, pH monitoring probes
     and temperature monitoring thermocouples.
     [00210]     The production medium for an experiment used 11 L of saccharified biomass,
     22g of yeast extract, 1.6 mL of antifoam AFE-0010. The media was heated to 70 C for 1
     hour and then cooled to 37 C. The pH of the media was raised to 6.5 using 12.5N NaOH
     solution. The media was then inoculated with 1% (110 mL) of the Lactobacillus
     rhamnosus. Fermentation was allowed to proceed at 37 C while the solution was stirred
     at 200 rpm and the pH maintained above 6.5. Glucose was completely consumed by 48
     hours. The product is L-lactic acid as the sodium salt. Xylose produced during
     saccharification was not consumed; it was essentially unconverted during this step.
     Biomass Produced D-lactic acid and Xylose Stream with Lactobacillus coryniformis
     [00211]     Saccharified biomass made utilizing similar steps as described above was
     used as the sugar source to produce an L-lactic acid xylose stream.
     [00212]     The glucose to D-Lactic acid fermenting organism Lactobacilluscoryniformis
     subspecies torquens B-4390 was grown in 25 mL of MRS medium (BD Diagnostic
     Systems No.: 288130) from 250 pL freezer stocks. The culture was incubated overnight
     at 37 C without agitation.
     [00213]     The production medium for an experiment used 644 mL of saccharified
     biomass, 5 g/L of tryptone, and 100 pL of antifoam AFE-0010. The media was heated to
     70 C for 1 hour and then cooled to 37 C. The pH was raised to 6.5 using 12.5N NaOH
     solution and maintained thereafter using the same base solution. The media was
     inoculated with 1% of the B-4390 and the fermentation wall allowed to proceed at 37 C
     while the media was stirred at 200 rpm and the pH maintained at about 6.5. Glucose
     consumption was complete in 144 hours. The product is D-lactic acid as the sodium salt.
                                                  65

WO 2014/138600                                                       PCT/US2014/021815
     Xylose produced during saccharification was not consumed; it was essentially
     unconverted during this step.
     [00214]
                                              66

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     Processing of Sodium Lactate solution
     [00215]      Both the D-lactic acid and L-lactic acid derived sodium lactate were
     decolorized as described here. Fermentations were run repeatedly to provide larger
     quantities of material and facilitate the decolorization.
     [00216]      Thirty liters of fermentation medium containing sodium lactate prepared by
     fermentation as described above were centrifuged at 4200 rpm for 60 minutes. The
     supernatant was filtered through a 0.22 micron cartridge filter producing 26.5 L of
     filtrate. Nineteen liters of the filtrate were percolated through a column containing 2.7 L
     of a highly porous styrenic polymeric bead type resin, Mitsubishi Diaion SP-700, at a
     flow rate of 1.5 BV/h. The first 1.5 L of eluate are discarded and the rest of the medium
     and an additional 1.5 L of water are eluted and pooled. The remaining portion of the
     medium was decolorized in a similar manner resulting in 7.5 L of pale colored solution.
     The two batches of decolorized material were pooled and stored in the cold if not used
     immediately.
     Desalination Electrodialysis of decolorized Lactate solution
     [00217]      The decolorized medium prepared as described above was subjected to
     electro dialysis using a desalination membrane.
     [00218]      The a reservoir of the Electrodialysis apparatus was charged with the
     decolorized sodium lactate medium and the Concentrate reservoir of the apparatus was
     charged with 4 L of deionized water. Electrodialysis was continued for 5 hours using a
     voltage of 40 V and a maximum current of 5 A.
     [00219]      This procedure produced a concentrated lactate stream with a typical
     concentration of around 66 g/L (starting at 38 g/L) and a concentrated xylose stream with
     a typical conductivity of 5 pS/cm (starting 34 pS/cm).
     Bipolar Membrane Dielectrodialysis
     [00220]      The liquid in the stream in sodium lactate produced as described above can be
     subjected to a second electro dialysis using a bipolar membrane to produce a lactic acid
     solution and a sodium hydroxide solution. The procedure that can be followed is
     described here.
     [00221]      Sodium lactate (1.6 L) solution prepared by desalination electrodialysis is
     added to the Diluate reservoir. Deionized water (1 L) is added to each reservoir for the
     lactic acid and sodium hydroxide streams. The electrodialysis is carried out using a 4
     chamber electro dialysis cell fitted with a bipolar membrane stack. The voltage is set to
     23 V and the maximum current is set to 6.7 A. The dialysis can be carried out for 5
     hours or until the conductivity of the dilute stream is < 5 % of its starting value.
                                                     67

WO 2014/138600                                                             PCT/US2014/021815
     [00222]      This procedure produced a concentrated lactate stream with a typical
     concentration of around 66 g/L (starting at 38 g/L) and a xylose stream with a typical
     conductivity of 5 pS/cm (starting 34 pS/cm) and concentration of 30g/L . The lactate
     stream is typically 96% lactic acid to 4 %xylose after the bipolar membrane dialysis.
     The xylose stream is typically 93 % xylose to 7 %lactic acid after the bipolar membrane
     dialysis.
     [00223]      Other than in the examples herein, or unless otherwise expressly specified, all
     of the numerical ranges, amounts, values and percentages, such as those for amounts of
     materials, elemental contents, times and temperatures of reaction, ratios of amounts, and
     others, in the following portion of the specification and attached claims may be read as if
     prefaced by the word "about" even though the term "about" may not expressly appear
     with the value, amount, or range. Accordingly, unless indicated to the contrary, the
     numerical parameters set forth in the following specification and attached claims are
     approximations that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be
     obtained by the embodiments. At the very least, and not as an attempt to limit the
     application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims, each numerical
     parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of reported significant
     digits and by applying ordinary rounding techniques.
     [00224]      Notwithstanding that the numerical ranges and parameters setting forth the
     broad scope of the invention are approximations, the numerical values set forth in the
     specific examples are reported as precisely as possible. Any numerical value, however,
     inherently contains error necessarily resulting from the standard deviation found in its
     underlying respective testing measurements. Furthermore, when numerical ranges are
     set forth herein, these ranges are inclusive of the recited range end points (e.g., end
     points may be used). When percentages by weight are used herein, the numerical values
     reported are relative to the total weight.
     [00225]      Also, it should be understood that any numerical range recited herein is
     intended to include all sub-ranges subsumed therein. For example, a range of "1 to 10"
     is intended to include all sub-ranges between (and including) the recited minimum value
     of 1 and the recited maximum value of 10, that is, having a minimum value equal to or
     greater than 1 and a maximum value of equal to or less than 10. The terms "one," "a," or
     "an" as used herein are intended to include "at least one" or "one or more," unless
     otherwise indicated.
                                                   68

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     [00226]      Any patent, publication, or other disclosure material, in whole or in part, that
     is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent
     that the incorporated material does not conflict with existing definitions, statements, or
     other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such, and to the extent
     necessary, the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material
     incorporated herein by reference. Any material, or portion thereof, that is said to be
     incorporated by reference herein, but which conflicts with existing definitions,
     statements, or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the
     extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing
     disclosure material.
     [00227]      While this invention has been particularly shown and described with
     references to preferred embodiments thereof, it will be understood by those skilled in the
     art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from
     the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.
                                                    69

WO 2014/138600          PCT/US2014/021815
               APPENDIX
                  70

WO 2014/138600                                                                       PCT/US2014/021815
                       Electrodialysis Cell Unit
                 PCCeII ED 64 0 02
                                                                      .........
                                            ~'3~                     ..........
                                           Technical.Data
                                                               bH .........
                     .Le..he                                   Str....60
                         .....                      66822.Heu.....e
                               ...
                    ...............                 G.rmany..
                                              .......Ph ne              806.-603..
               ......                                Fax:. + 9..68 ..  6 ...    0373
                                                     E-mail: pccel(3lecrodilyssMd
                    .............................        . pcceltde..
                                                    w ww...
                                    ............................                           V person: Jan.........06...
                                            ..    1
                                              .......
                                                    ....  ....

WO 2014/138600                                                                                       PCT/US2014/021815
                                                                                            EW (JCo
               Table of Contents
               1. General........................................................                                              2
               2. Function.......................................................................................              3
               3. Cell and Parts .. ... ....        .. ............ .....              ........ ............    ............. 5
               4. Technical Data.......................................                                           ............ 8
               5. Application Examples................................................,                                       10
               6. Maintenance and Replacement.........                            ...................................... 11
               7. Application areas.................................................                                          12
               8. General Remarks / Safety..........................................                                          13
               9. W arranty ...........       .....       ...........       ..... ....  ............  .....  .............. 13
               10. Further Information        / Contact Address ............................................                  14
               1. General
               The electrodialysis cell unit PCCel ED 64 is used in laboratory electrodialysis
               processes to remove ions from one solution (diluate). The ions are collected in
               another solution (concentrate). The electrodialysis unit PCCell ED 64-2 allows to
               carry out different types of experiments for a variety of applications, to examine
               the characteristics of ion exchange membranes in use. It is concepted as an easy
               to-manage laboratory cell.
                                                                         2
                                                                 72

WO 2014/138600                                                                 PCT/US2014/021815
               2. Function
               The electrodialysis unit PCCeU ED64-2 consists of an anode chamber, a cathode
               chamber and a membrane stack between them. With this constitution, a variety of
               experiments, like desalination, can be processed.
                                                                                 Concerntrate
               Fig. 1: Functional setup of an ED stack. Salts are removed in ceLls caLled "Diluate"
                        and are colLected in the Concentrate. Beside this, the electrodes need a
                        solution, the Catholyte and the Anolyte.
               To run a standard ED, the membrane stack consists of n (typicanly 5, 10, 50 or even
               100) cell pairs, which are formed by n+1 cation exchange membranes, n anion
               exchange membranes and 2 n spacers.
               At the shown polarity (Fig. 1), one of the cell systems is the diluate and the other
               one is the concentrate. If the poLarity is changed, the function of the cell system
               changes accordingly.
                                                         3
                                                    73

WO 2014/138600                                                                    PCT/US2014/021815
                                                                       lEW,                  il
               A complete ED System is set up by this ED Cell in combination with an ED pump
               unit, e-g. PCCell B-ED 1 and the external solvent tanks build (Fig. 2).
                                                                           -P -11 0 6 4 0 B2
                                                                                    P1
               Fig. 2: A complete ED setup: it consists of the stack (upper dotted rectangle),the
                       ED pump unit (middle) and the external electrolyte containers (below).
               Please remark in this context, that the ED cell is only one part of the complete
               system and will work properly only in combination with the other parts.
                                                         4
                                                   74

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
                                                                          EWW(c&ev
               3. Cell and Parts
               The PCCeII ED 64 consists of several parts. They are described as follows:
                                         RK,                                  ........
                                      ..
                                       ...
                                         .. ... ~
                     PC e..D.4seupad.uctonlpat
                   Fi..
                   3:.....
                                   Desciptin                                 Ar No
                          1,      Eecroe ndplte
                          3, 4,.5Membane.tac
                                ..Screw..set
                                                             5.....
                                        B.-     N  75

WO 2014/138600                                                                  PCT/US2014/021815
                                           -- _____________           _       0
                                         0
                                         C          C>                   rO 0
                                          0.r
                                         C                               r
                                         c
                                       H"I
                                                                           00
                                               S0
               Fig. 5: PCCell ED 64 0 02 Membrane size. Size given is in mm. Dotted square area in
                       the middle of the membrane is the active membrane area of the cell.
                                                            7
                                                       76

WO 2014/138600                                                             PCT/US2014/021815
                                                                   EWECK J
               4. Technical Data
               Stack
                      Membrane size          110 x 110 mm
                      Active membrane area   64 cm2
                      Membrane spacing       electrode - membrane: ca. 1 mm
                                             over cells: 0,5 mm
                      Number of membranes    Maximum 25 cell pairs
                      Current Connectors     4 mm banana plugs
                      Processing length      80 mm
               Medium Contacting Materials End plate materials
                      Cellframe              polypropylene
                      Tubes                  polyethylene
                      Electrodes             Titane, Pt/Ir coating
               Sp acer options
                                                                        (D
                                                                        CL
                                                                       .U
                                                                        4)
                                                                             42)
                                                            V           CL
                                                                        0E
                                                              >.        4)      0 0 L
                                                       S    0    0     U-                V
                                 64 ED
                               Spce                         0    0
                      Spacer ED 64 0021                                         1   1
               1 available
                                                      8
                                                77

WO 2014/138600                                                                   PCT/US2014/021815
               Dimensions and Weight (ca)
                      width                      165 mm
                      depth                      150 mm
                      height                     190 mm
                      weight                     2.5 kg
               Electrical Connecting data
                                                            ED 64
                      Type               only connect the cell with a galvanically DANGER!
                                         isolated DC current circuit.
                      Max Amp.           5 (depend on application, temperature
                                         etc.)
                      Max. Voltage       Max. 2 V / cell pair
               Hydraulical Connecting data
                                                                             ED 64
                Type                                   connectors for 8 mm id tubes
                Flow through electrode circuits:         nominal150 1/ h
                Nominal flow through concentrate       4-8 1/ h
                and diluat per single cell              (10 cell pairs result in 40-80 [ / h Flux
                                                       through concentrate or diluate)
                Max. pressure                          transmembrane pressure has to be kept
                                                       zero:
                                                        Never pump only one of the diluate /
                                                       concentrate circuits alone!
                pressure drop over cell                Max. 0,5 bar
                                                          9
                                                    78

WO 2014/138600                                                                                       PCT/US2014/021815
               5. Application Examples
               The PCCell ED 64 is intended to be driven in a batch process. Process length and
               nominal flowthrough are given above.
               Figure 7 shows an example of a batch desalination (conductivity of diluate against
               time). The effect of a single pass desalination at the start and stop time result in a
               conductivity jump. It depends on the current, flowing and other factors. The plot
               shows, that it is - more ore less - proportional to the current.
                                                               68 mS cm--a64 mScm:
                                                               power-on conductivity drop
                                                               (single pass salt removal)
                                 E                                                      ED 247 d(LFDi)
                                E40
                                 30-                                           0 50 ms cm --> 1.0 mS cm
                                                                               power-off conductivity raise
                                 20                                            (last pass salt removal disabled)
                                     0   Starting current 10OA
                                                                    1.o A
                                         Current at stopping time:
                                   00:00     00:20       00:40         1:00        01:20        0140       02:00
                                                            Experimental Time
               Fig. 6: A batch desalination of aqueous NaCl, about 14 1 / m2.
               Figure 6 shows the salt (calculated as NaCl) removal in dependence of the current
               at theoretical current efficiency (ce) and at 85% ce. With the PCCell ED 200 you
               can expect for sodium chloride ce's in the range between 90 and 95 %. It depends
               on current denity, concentration and other factors. The amount is given per cell
               pair. A 25 cell pair- unit will make 25 times of this.
                                                                     10
                                                            79

WO 2014/138600                                                                PCT/US2014/021815
                               50                                        Current Efficiency
                                                                                      100 %
                                40
                                                                                      85%
                              030                                  7     7
                              S20
                            z                 7<
                                10
                                 0
                                   0         5             10         15            20
                                                         Amperage
               Fig. 7: Transport rate of one ED cell pair in dependence of the Amperage.
               6. Application areas
               Desalination of salt water
               Stabitisation of wine
               Whey demineraisation
               Pharmaceutical application
               Pickling bath recycling
                                                          11
                                                    80

WO 2014/138600                                                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
                                                                                                 N           J(EW,ei
               7. General Remarks / Safety
               By running an electrodialysis with this cell unit, concentrated acids and bases,
               which are corrosive, may be produced. Adequate protective measures have to be
               taken. At the electrodes, explosive gases and aerosol may be produced. Also in this
               case, appropriate protection has to be ensured. The cell has to be run in a tank
               large enough to collect any liquids passing out of the system.
               8. Further Information / Contact Address
               For further information, visit our web site www.etectrodialysis.info. In case of any
               technical questions, please contact
                                                        PCCeU GmbH
                                                        Dr. Patrick Altmeier
                                                        Phone: ++49-(0)6806/603730
                                                        Fax:         ++49-(0)6806/603731
                                                        email: pccell@electrodialysis.de
                Note:
               The information in this handling instructionsispresented in geod faith, and all recommendations or suggestions are
               made without guarantee. The products are intended for use by persons having technical skill, at their own discretion
               and risk. Pcell isnot responsible for any risks or liabilities which may result from the use of its products.
                                                                              12
                                                                     81

WO 2014/138600                                                                                      PCT/US2014/021815
                     . ---,
                ......      ' ~       A.0S      tzt
               High Water Recovery with Electrodialvsis
               Reversal
              Autnor Robert P. Alison                                    water recovery is important for resource conserva
              Reprinted from Proceedings of 1993 AWA'A Mem
              brane Conference, by perrnssion. Baltimore, MD                        e
              August, 1993.                                                                                     ter
              Note: GE Water& Process Technologies purchased             The source water feed to an EDR system 5 d aided
              Ionics in 2005.                                            Into three streams as snown n Figu-e 1. Tne arg
                                                                         est ftow s the diute feed whoi          passes tnro.gni tne
              ktrodUCtion                                                stacks once and exits as deserted product. The
                                                                         second strewn, termed concentrate makeup, is fed
              For many membrane desa oination users, the need            to a concentrate stream be ng rec roulated
              to    liheve maxl-im water recovery is a orine             through tne stacks. At the ext from tie stacks
              prorty. For some, somue wate' [mited a-c-ated              tie-e is an overflow to waste. Tne concentrate
              or othe-w se -egu ated. It *s no -recognized that           macup tow rate controls tie average n-mer of
              withdrowals from iany aqifers exceed tne re-               tines the concentrate- s circulated, and there
              clarge with resulting drops in water tao)es. and           fore is tie mla i manrs of controlling recovery in
              subsistence and salteater itruslon           i coastal     an EDP system. Tne third steam is electrode coi
              areas. Surface supplies can also be 11-i ted as was         parti eot f usn waite          wnich on most systems
              so cearly evident during the recent Calforna                s 1%: of tne dilute tow. iorma ry ths water
              drought For users woo purchase the r feedwater              s directed to waste after t passes thro ign the
              costs are nsing and can represent a siubstanta             stacks, but it can be used as a partch f tne
              portion of their total treated water cost                  concentrate makeup water to further- improve
              Concentrate dlsposa 5 also getting ore expen-              water recovery.
              slow and complicated as regulations tended to                         <ocx
              preserve the quo vtyof water supplies and the
              envro-mnt becoe,r more strict Permits for sir
              face dise narge -n oe diffini t to os ble to get.
              D charge to sewers and deepwe [s-coa substan
              tialy increase costs. 'Zero Lquid Discharge' fc|l
              tles, where all quid wastes are purified for re ise
              can nave very high costs.                                   Figure l EDR Flow Diagram
              Ectrod i sis Reversa         (EDRI is a desalination       A small amount of the dlute stream water flow is
              prorres-wereo tis ore passed -torough tn mem-              transferred to the concentrate stream as it passes
              brakesinstead of water as In everse osmcbs li              tnrougn the stock. First water is transferred
              The p-ccess is fundamentally different f-m RC              through tne membrane wIth tne passage of ions
              and nos ts own dist nt-capab ties an d i mitatiois         This ater-transfer" amounts to 015% t 0-45% of
              on water recovery. Tna capb           itis of tLe EDF      the di ute fow per 1000 ppm 1mg/LI of Las
              process are helpg ma-nay mun ph       ni ad indust-a        removed. Menoranes with toe oest resistance to
              users. a desal Iation applications, were ago                  tema scale formation tend to have water trans
                                                                       Find 4mrnton   obyvisingwww     oncomfword crkirson "Corrnwos
                                                                     ITrudem oo rd    Electio'Iornpany -ybe regstsredin 4n4or0>00CO-ut
                                          4..,                                                 FOOE20-onnem|Electncof-mponyAllrightsm rvedoo
                                                                                                                        TP1071EN doi inr--1
                                                                82

WO 2014/138600                                                                            PCT/US2014/021815
              fer near the higher value. Internal leakage also     Table 1:Suffolk,VA EDRUnitFlowSummary
              occurs between the dilute stream and the concen
              trate stream which is approximately 0 25% to                                      -
              0.50% per stage. The concentrate strearn is nor
              mally operated about 1 psi lower in pressure than
              the dilute stream so that this leakage will be fr om
              the dilute stream to the concentrate stream Water         -p
              transfer and cross leakage do not reduce water
              recovery. These flows are calculated as part of the                -         c
              concentrate makeup flow in the plant design. The                                      -
              actual controlled concentrate makeup flow is                  -                a
              reduced proportionately.
              The periodic reversal of the DC power polarity       A 5mgd ER plant located on Grand Canary Island
              interchanges the solutions in the individual spac-   operates on a 5,000 to 7,000 ppm 1mg/l ffeedwater
              ers. Spacers carrying the dilute flow in negative    at 85% water recovery. Table 2 shows the unit flow
              polarity carry concentrate in the positive polarity  summary The controlled concentrate makeup flow
              Automatic nlet and outlet diversion valves direct    is approximately 1/2 of the total waste. The ulti
              the dilute and concentrate flows to the correct      mate water recovery capability based on flows of
              spacers for each polarity.                           this plant is only 918%. The higher TDS increases
              While the concentrate is being flushed out during    water transfer and the additional stages increase
              reversal, poor quality product is produced. This is  cross leakage.
              diverted to waste by a conductivity-controlled       Table 2: Grand Canary Island EDR Unit Flow Summary
              automatic valve. By tiring the operation of the
              automatic diversion valves and the DC polarity              '
              reversal of each stack to the flow through the sys-
              tem, high conductivity product is produced for only
              36 seconds. This phased polarity reversal occurs
              every 15 to 30 minutes. The high conductivity or
              "off specification" product from the "phased rever
              sal" represents 2% to 4% waste. This waste is high
              TDS concentrate and cannot be recycled to the           1
              feed or concentrate makeup.
              Som~e Examples:
                                                                   The water recovery of this plant is really limited by
              The highest water recovery EDP plant in operation    two additional physical factors. The first is a phe
              is the 3.76 mgd (114233 m/day facility operated by   nomenon called "shorting". Figure 2 shows how
              the City of Suffolk, VA. The plant has three stages  leakage currents can travel sideways through the
              and achieves 94% water recovery. Table 1 shows a     membranes and pass down a concentrate mani
              flow summary for one of the three Ef units bro-      fold hole. If the concentration is sufficiently con
              ken down to show where the waste is generated.       ductive, the current passing through the
              The units have no continuous chemical feeds. A       membrane to the manifold hole can create enough
              149 gprmi(56 Ipm) concentrate makeup flow is         heat to soften the spacer material and cause it to
              used to control calcium carbonate scaling poten-     deform. This limitation can be overcome by a vari
              tial in the concentrate. If the units did not        ety of means which increase costs. The second
              require this controlled concentrate makeup flow,     limit is imposed by membrane current efficiency
              waste could be reduced to 43.1 gpm giving an         properties. Figure 3 shows the DC power consump
              ultimate recovery capability of 95.3%.               tion and membrane current efficiency vs water
                                                                   recovery for an EDP unit desalting 2,000 ppmn1mg/Il
                                                                   NaCl solution to 334 ppm (mg/l) Mernbrane effi
                                                                   ciency is related to the difference in normality be
                                                                   tween the dilute and concentrate streams As
              1age                                                                                                 TP1071EN
                                                               83

WO 2014/138600                                                                                      PCT/US2014/021815
              water recovery is increased, the concentrate nor-            nately exposes membrane surfaces and the water
              mality increases and current efficiency drops rais-          flow paths to concentrate with a tendency to pre
              ing power consumption.                                       cipitote scale and desalted water which tends to
                                                                           dissolve scale. This allows the process to operate
                                        k\       2\Twith                           supersaturated concentrate streams up to
                                                                           specific limits without chemical additions to pre
                  '6..  j                 ~m,~~vent                               scale formation. Ifchemicals are added to the
                           . . ......
                          .......                                          concentrate, higher levels of supersaturation can
                                                                           be achieved.
                                                                           The design limit for CaCO3 without antiscalants is
                                                                           on Langelier Saturation Index (LSI) of 1.8. Actual
              Figure 2; EDR Stack Shortirg                                 scale precipitation starts at an LSI near +2.2. This
                                                                           limit issufficiently high that few EDR units need any
                                                                           chemical additions to prevent CaCO3 scaling from
                                                                           high concentrate LSI. Where chemical addition is
                                                                           used, acid or carbon dioxide addition to the con
                                                                           centrate is employed.
                                                                           Antiscalants can be used as an alternative to acid
                                                                   .. . ti>or  CO2 addition to the concentrate. A 500,000 gpd
                                                                            EDR unit was operated for seven weeks at a con
                                                                           centrate LSI of -3.0 using a polymer antiscalant.
                     2Yr m6        4 3 KQ*pK'K                             Another EDR unit was operated for 5,000 hours at
              Figure 3: Efficiency and Power Consumption vs. Water         an LSI of 2.7 using sodium hexametaphosphate
                          Recovery                                         antiscalant. This approach has not been adopted in
              Suffolk  can   achieve 94% water recovery because            general for three reasons.
              the relatively low TDS of the feedwater results in            1. Antiscalants must be dosed at the correct
              relatively low normality difference between the                    amount. Too little results in scaling and too
              dilute and concentrate streams. The Grand Canary                   much can foul the membranes.
              Island plant has a much greater normality differ-             2. Antiscalant dosages are difficult to monitor.
              ence and power consumption rises sharply above                    There is no easy way to test the concentrate
              86% water recovery. Anion exchange membranes                      for correct dosage. With acid or CO:, pH is eas
              are available that have better current efficiency                 ily monitored.
              which improves water recovery capability. These              3. The concentrate LSI only needs to be reduced
              membranes tend to be subject to more internal                     to + 1.8. The required acid or CC) dosages are
              scale formation which can make their use undesir-                  almost always very small. There is no signifi
              able on many waters. Cation exchange mem-                          cant cost advantage favoring the use of antis
              branes have been substantially improved since the                  calants over acid or C02 ,
              Canary Islands plant was built in 1985. Long term
              testing at this plant show these new membranes               Calium Sufiate
              substantially improve current efficiency and
              reduce power consumption. They are now stan-                 The design limit for CaSO, saturation without an
              dard on all new plants.                                      tiscalant addition is an ion product of 2.25 x Ksp.
                                                                           The real limit where precipitation starts is near 4 x
              CCDentrat Saing Umits                                         Ksp. Dell City, Texas has operated a 150,000 gpd
                                                                           l568 mi/day) EOR system since 1975 with theicon
              The water recovery capability of nearly all EDR              centrate CaSO4 ion product at 3.5 x Ksp without
              plants is limited by the potential for salts of limited      antiscalant addition. The limit cannot be increased
              solubility to precipitate from the concentrate               by acid or CO- addition, as pH adjustment does not
              stream as scale. The polarity reversal of EDR alter
              TP1C71FN8
                                                                 84

WO 2014/138600                                                                                 PCT/US2014/021815
              increase the solubility of CaSO . The only way to        removal. The first user to encounter 8aS0 4 scale
              increase water recovery is to use antiscalants.          has 275,000 gpd (1041 m'Vdayl units The problem
              In 1981 and             the OR limits of sustained       occurs intermittently as the quality of their surface
              operation at high CaFSO, saturations with sodium         water supply varies. This user simply added strain
              hexameta phosphate antiscalant addition were             ers to the piping before the stacks to catch the
              explored under an OWRT contract at Roswell, New          flakes and has operated this way for over 10 yeas
              Meco. The final test in this program was opera-          it is now known that the threshold point for BaSO
              tion of a 50,000 gpd EDR unit with the concentrate       precipitation in EDR is an ion product of 100 x Ksp
              CaSO4 ion product at an average of 12.5 x Ksp for        when no antiscalants are used
              over 5,000 operating hours. Inspection of the            The limit with antiscalant addition is currently
              membranes at the conclusion of the test showed           unknown. Several plants are operating at a BaSO1
              the mkmibranes had only small amounts of scale,          ion product of 150 x Ksp and two plants hav~e
              even though antiscalant addition was lost for four       reached an ion product of 225 x Ksp with a polymer
              days during the test. Analysis of the membranes at
              the conclusion of the test indicated good perform-       antiscalantcdosageof 2to 5mgA to the concentrate.
              dance properties. In fact the membranes were used
              in another plant after the Roswell test for about        Strontium Sulfate
              seven years.                                             SrSO4 scale has not been detected in any EDR
              Since the landmark Roswell study, a number of            plants. Analyses of concentrate samples from
              EDR units have operated at high CaSO4 saturations        many plants show the plants with the highest
              in the concentrate. In 1988 Sarasota County, Flor-       supersaturations are operating at an ion product
              ida installed a mobile 300,000 gpd EFR at its Sor-       of 4 x Ksg The projected limit is an ion product
              rento facility to supplement water produced by an        about 8 x Ksp without antiscalants.
              RO plant operating at SO% water recovery. The wa
              ter recovery of the EDR plant is only 70%, but the       CdCium Fluoride
              CaSO4 ion product of the concentrate is                  CaF 2 precipitation has never occurred in on EDR
              5.75 x Ksp. Scale formation is prevented by the          plant. Plants are operating with ion products
              addition of 4.3 ppm 1mg/I) of a polyacrylate antis-      500 x Ksp and much higher levels have been en
              calant to the concentrate                                countered in two industrial pilot studies with no
              Sarasota County is now constructing a 12 mgd de-         precipitation. There are no projected limits for satu
              salination facility scheduled to start operation in      ration levels.
              1994. Their withdrawals of groundwater are regu
              lated and restricted due to concerns of aquifer          Silica
              overwithdrawal ard quality degradation. The can-         Silica in waters below pH 9. is essentially nonionic
              centrate is to be injected into deepwells due to                 n remved r concerate t all               Tests
              environmental concern an d regulations controlling       show silica le       are equal in the feed, product
                              r get   hhihc tcover             pr ve n
                                                   ORf ra it s plevel,
                                              e Fsatrtin               and brine of pera ti ng FOR      pla nt s. High w at er
              abilit    e dsa
                surf attoI operat tt a-_                               rcveries can be obtained on high silica waters
                                                                       because silica does not lim it EDR recovery.
              Barium iSlfate                                           The 5 mgd plant on Grand Canary island is a per
                                                                       fect example of this capability. The feedwater silica
              BaS04 scales started to be encountered in EDR            varies from 50 to 60 ppm (mg/), yet the water
              plants in the 1980s with the growing trend to            recovery is 85%. RO would have a lower operating
              higher water recoveries. It has now been encoun-         cost on this higher TDS water, but recovery would
              tered in about ten plants. It precipitates on the        have to be much lower. The feedwater is pur
              walls of the concentrate recirculation piping and in     chased at a cost of over US$1 per thousand gal
              the concentrate pump. It adheres strongly to met-        lons (per 3.8 m The RO cost advantage islost with
              als, but breaks off the PVC piping when the scale is     the much larger volume of waste required to pre
              about .020 inches thick. The flakes then pass to the     vent silica scaling.
              EDR stacks. Chemical flushes cannot dissolve the
              scale. The stacks must be disassembled for
                Paq 4                                                                                                   TP1071EN
                                                                  85

WO 2014/138600                                                      PCT/US2014/021815
              Confusion
              The maximum water recovery that can be
              achieved with EDR desalination for any given
              source water depends on a variety of factors. In
              most applications the water recovery is limited by
              the potential for scales to precipitate from the con
              centrate. EDR has the ability to operate at high
              supersaturations of scale-forming salts in the con
              centrate and is unaffected by silica This translates
              to a high water recovery capability These are the
              reasons.EDR is meeting the needs of users in many
              applications where high water recovery isa priority.
              TP1071EN                                                              Page 5
                                                                 86

WO 2014/138600                                                                                    PCT/US2014/021815
               Electrodialysis (ED) and Electrodialysis
               Reversal (EDR)
               Electrodialysis (LD) is an electrochemical process in which ions migrate through ion-selective
               semipenneable membranes as a result of their attraction to two electrically charged electrodes.
               ED is able to remove most charged dissolved ions.
               1.0 Applicable Contaminants
               ED/EDR is an EPA BAT for barium, nitrate and nitrite, selenium, and TDS.
               2.0 Description of Technology
               Pretreatment T ypic al operation requires: the addition of a scale inhibitor to prevent scaling and
               reduce the concenirateSI below 2.1 in the concentrate stream, residual chlorine concentration
               of 0.5 mg/L to prevent biological growth, and a cartridge filter (10-20 pm) prior to the ED/EDR
               system. Air stripping can also be used prior to ED/EDR in order to remove H2 6]. Also, the
               feed waiver must be within the limitations of an ED/EDR systemsee section 2.2.
               Technology Description Electrodialysis is a process that depends on the principal that most
               dissolved salts are positively or negatively charged and they will migrate to electrodes with an
               opposite charge[2]      Selective membranes that are able to allow passage of either anions or
               cations make separation possible [2} ED uses these membranes in an alternating fashion to
               create concentrate and product stream
               Th-1 anions are able to pass through teil anion-selective membrane, but are not able to pass by the
               catilon-sel\ivlemlbrdane, \i                   thir path dand
                                                        blocks01              tips the anionsin thebine strea
               (Figule  1). Si11larly, caionso vre itele opposil direction through             the calion-selectie
               meblll1dane linden a ivelj\ Chglle
               and are trapped by the aion-selective
               memibranT    [2] An EDIuti         able  f
                                                        to
               remove froml 50      o 4o of disolvedT
               solids from111a f     d1 lpTo 12,00>t
               mL TDS .                I.
                                     oltage    11 i and
                                             input,
               pr ocess configuratilonl (nlumlbero
               sacks or stages dictates lthe viabl
               percent removal TDSr removal is
               generly liited by economics. The
               COst of ED illcreases as the feed water                               -     -- ---
               TDUS increase. The      typical  operating
               conditions are 1,200 mg/l Il )S, high               ,            Yo   itt              'Y
               hardness and high silica [4].                   Hgure 1. Electrodialysis Process [1]
                                                            Electrodialysis    1
                                                              87

WO 2014/138600                                                                            PCT/US2014/021815
               A typical ED system includes a membrane stack uwith a number of cell pairs, each consisting of a
               cation transfer membrane a demineralized flow spacer, an anion transfer membrane, and a
               concentrate flow spacer. Compartmenms for the electrodes are at opposite ends ofthe stack. The
               electrodes are continually flushed to reduce fouling or scaling.
               Recyehlng the concentrate stream and discharging concentrate to waste or blowdown, is
               common and called feed-and-bleed mode [2]. This is necessary because ofthe facshat there are
               sharp differences i flow i rates between the product and brine streams. Diluate flow is about 10
               times the flow of the bine senam; this difference in lowsirates pi ensure imbalances -requiring
               concentrate recycle [5].
                Membranes are usually made out of cation- or anion-exchange resins made into sheet form. ED
               spacers  are made out of lPi,      and the electrodes are composed of an inert metal. Membrane
               selection is based on carefl review of raw water characteristics.
               Electrodialysis Rev ersal (EDR) is similar to ED but the polarity of the electrodes is regularly
               reversed, thereby freeing accumulated ions on the membrane surface. This process minimizes
               the elfect of inorganic scaling and fouling by converting product streams into waste streams [6].
               This process requires additional plumbing and electrical controls., but increases membrane life.
               EDR does not require added chemicals, and eases cleaning as well.
               Maintenance ED membranes are durable, can run under a wide range of pH conditions (pH1 2
                I i) and endure high temperatures during cleaning [4]. They can be removed from the unit and
               scrubbed if necessary. If operated properly, membranes have an average life of I2 to 15 years
               [4]. Solids can be flushed out by turning the power olT and letting water circulate through the
               stack The El) stack must be disassembled, mechanically cleaned, and reassembled at regular
               intervals. They can also be cleaned using a 500 hy drochloric acid solution [8].
               Waste Disposal The concentrate waste stream, electrode cleaning flows, and residuals from the
               pretreatment process will be a part of a typical waste stream flow and w ill require disposal.
               Common disposal methods include: surface water discharge, evaporation ponds, etc. Spent
               membranes will also require disposal.
               Benefits
                    " ED and EDR can operate with minimal fouling or scaling, or chemical addition.
                    " Low pressure requirements.
                    * ED and EDR facilities are quieter than RO.
                    * Long membrane life expectancy
                    " Unaffected by non-ionic sealants such as silica
                    * Low chemical usage for pretreatment'.
                    * Ability to treat feed water with higher SDL TOC and silica concentrations, and more
                                          1
                       turbidity than R0 .
                    " Can operate with up to 0.5 ppm of free chlorine in the feed uater to control the biological
                        matter in the feed after.
                                                          Electrodialysis 2
                                                            88

WO 2014/138600                                                                               PCT/US2014/021815
                  Limitations
                      * TDS economical up to 8,000 ppm, but often run at waters of 1,200 ppm [6,9]
                      " pH: 2.0 to 11.0
                      * TOC: up to 15 mg/L
                      " Free Chlorine: 0.5 ppm with spikes up to 15-20 ppm
                      " Turbidity: up to 2 NTU
                      * Iron (Fe 2 ): 0.3 ppm
                      * Mn (: 0.1 ppm
                      * H 2S: upto1 ppm
                      * SDI: 15 (5 min SDI)
                  3.0 Example Treatment Train
                  The conventional EDR treatment train typically includes raw water pumps, debris screens, rapid
                  mix with addition of an antiscalant, slow mix flocculator, basin or clarifier, gravity filters, FDR
                  membranes, chlorine disinfection, and clearweil storage. licrofiltration (MF) could be used in
                  place of flocculation, sedimentation, and filtration.
                                  Coagulation                       Electrodalysis
              Feed Tank           Flocculation        Clarifier          B i       C12   Clearell
                                                                   Waste Discharge
                  4.0 Safety and Health Concerns
                      "   Produces hazardous gasses, such as chlorine, hydrogen, H2S, etc
                      *   Electrical hazardous
                  5.0 References
                       1. Buros, 0. K. (2000) The ABCs of Desalting. Topsfield, International Desalination
                          Association, Saline Water Conversion Corporation.
                      2. American Water Works Association, and American Society of Civil Engineers. Waler
                          Treatment Plant Design. Ed. Edward F. Barutih. Fourth ed. New York: MicGraw-Hill
                          Handbooks, 2005.
                      3. General Electric. (2008). "Electrodialysis Reversal (ED)R)." Retrieved 9/15 08, from
                          http:!/wwwgewtercomproductseq~uipmentled edr edi edrjsp.
                                                             Electrodialysis   3
                                                                89

WO 2014/138600                                                                         PCT/US2014/021815
                   4. Reahl,   . R. (2008). "Half A Century of Desalination with Electrodialysis." from
                      h       'ndv<. aromdtfechnial a~etsusit                  erncsingisWTPO3SEN..df.
                   5. Perry- Robert H., Don W. Green, and James 0. Maloney. Perr's Chemical Encineers
                      Handbook. Seventh ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1997.
                   6. Bureau of Reclamation (2003). Desalting Handbook for Planners. Department of the
                      Interior. Denver.
                   7. Trussel Technologies. "Desalination Technologies". Pasadena, 2008. Trussel
                      Technologies. 6/11/2008. <httP/ww.trusselltech con/tech desalination.asn>.
                   8. Allison, R.P. (2001). "Surface and Wastewater Desalination by Electrodialysis Reversal"
                      from
                      htt ://www eewater comt/pdf/Technical Papers Cust' nericas/Enelish/'TP1l022EN odif
                   9. Kiernan, J. and A. J. M. v. Gottberg (1998). Selection of EDR Desalting Technology
                      Rather than MF/RO for the City of San Diego Water Reclamation Project. North
                      American Biennial at Conference and Exposition. GE Water & Process Technologies.
               Contact Information
               This Fact Sheet was produced by the TSC(s Water Treatment Engineering Team. Please address
               any questions or comments to:
               Contact: Bob Jurenka
               Email: wtprimerQusbr.gov
               Phone: (303) 445-2254
               Web: btt: w usbrcovmtswaterpublications/nrimer.html
                                                                                         Revision Date: 09/20/10
                                                       Electrodialysis 4
                                                         90

    WO 2014/138600                                                                      PCT/US2014/021815
 The Eurodia Industrie bipolar membrane electrodialysis unit for the conversion of
               sodium acetate into reusable acetic acid and caustic soda:
                            More than five years of successful operation
        (Published in Membrane & Separation Technology News - March 2006)
In early 2003, Eurodia Industrie commissioned a new bipolar membrane electrodialysis (EDBM)
unit at the site of a specialty chemical producer in Germany. Its purpose is to convert a by
product stream of Sodium Acetate from the production of vitamins into Acetic Acid that can be
reused in the process and Sodium Hydroxide to be used in the waste water treatment facility. As
a result, the volume of waste (organic load) is significantly reduced and the acid and base
values can be recovered. This article will describe the successful operation of this plant over the
last three years.
EDBM combines in an electrodialysis stack conventional ion exchange membranes with bipolar
membranes to allow the conversion of aqueous salt streams into the acids and bases. Under
the action of a DC current, the bipolar membranes effectively split water molecules into H* and
OH- ions. These ions combine with the anion and cation of the salt to form the acid and the
base. With a three-compartment configuration using anion-exchange, cation-exchange, and
bipolar membranes, three loops are circulating in the stacks: acid, base, and salt such as
Sodium Chloride. As shown in the schematic below, the two-compartment configuration with
bipolar and cation-exchange membranes is used preferably with the salts of weak acids and
strong bases, such as Sodium Acetate. Because organic acids are weakly dissociated it is not
possible/practical to have a separate acid loop and no anion-exchange membranes are
required. In such stacks, the two product streams are an aqueous solution of NaOH (maximum
concentration 8w%) and the organic acid mixed with some remaining organic salt for a sufficient
conductivity: the higher the salt feed concentration, the higher the conversion rate that can be
achieved. More than a dozen EDBM systems are in operation worldwide, mainly for specialty
chemicals applications.
                                                ... ... ...
                                         -------------....              .. ............
                                            N.+     Na:     , N.   Na+,
                K:cation exchange membrane
                   bipolar membrane     KP:
At the German plant, the Sodium Acetate stream is fed at an average concentration of 22-23
w% and the acid is produced at a concentration of 18-19 w% (3.2-3.5 M). The NaOH is
produced at an average concentration of 6-6.5 w%, sufficient for reuse in the water treatment
plant. Since there is also a transport of water from the acid into base loop, the conversion rate is
above 90%. The unit processes 1.1 to 1.3                M 3/hour of feed and converts more than 400 kg/hour
of Sodium Acetate.
Since the feed contains low levels of multivalent cations (Ca, Mg, Fe, Cu, etc.), a pretreatment
step is required to reduce the total concentration below 1 ppm to avoid precipitation as
hydroxides in the stacks: two ion exchange resin columns have been installed for continuous

    WO 2014/138600                                                          PCT/US2014/021815
operation. The salt is then converted in two EUR4OB-bip EDBM stacks (see picture below),
with a total cell area of 255 M2 (510 M2 of membrane area). The EDBM stacks run in an
automatic batch mode with the salt/acid conductivity decreasing from 70 mS/cm to 11 .5 mA/cm:
when the conductivity reaches such minimum, the acid product is pumped to the storage tank.
The overall current efficiency is optimized thanks to proprietary designed spacers.
     ThDB       ni asbe dsgndan ontute                      ccrin
      cutmrsecfctos.Cmisonn                  a en opee wti o.GPprnipe0adt  hottm ndMici
     hae heneso          tecsomradawasbe                i  prtonwe
                              a LC. Th unit hs beeninstaed nasadaoebidn
               operatin isbycntrolle                                       eqie.TeSuoai  hl h
      ovrlotrlro sina daen ulig I diin rmt aer                                oioigFlosta
                            e n te oly
                     an pertormut    bilingforles tan 0 mnues er ay Th elctic abiet
                ar loctedin he sme uildng s th EDM sacks A ilut NaH soutin i
           and ectfier
       used~~~~~asteeetoyeslto       n     lwralwstesf            etncusd       h   uligo h
                                                          ftKt

     WO 2014/138600                                                         PCT/US2014/021815
It is worthwhile to note that the performance of the system have continuously exceeded the
design and guaranteed parameters: especially for the acid concentration and the acid
production rate, as well as the power consumption. While a membrane life of 12,000 hours has
been guaranteed, the membranes have run for more than 8,000 hours so far with no sign of
deterioration. For a similar application at another site, the bipolar membrane life has exceeded
25,000 hours while the life of the cation-exchange membranes is about 15,000 hours. The DC
current is set at 340 A (equivalent to 85 mA/cm 2') and the average voltage remains at 185 V per
half-stack, or less than 1.7 V/cell. Since cell maintenance and power consumption are the main
operating costs, the economic projections show a payback for the customer of less than two
years.
The performance of the EDBM unit demonstrates that, with a good design and the adequate
pretreatment, users will have a very successful and trouble-free operation. Of course, this
equipment requires the same amount of care as any chemical process step and the plant
operators have shown their commitment to the technology. From this experience, it is clear that
bipolar membrane electrodialysis can be reliably used in chemical processing with the potential
of attractive financial returns.

WO 2014/138600                                                             PCT/US2014/021815
     CLAIMS
     1. A method comprising:
     removing salts, partially ionized acids or fully ionized acids, from saccharified biomass
     liquids utilizing an electrodialysis system.
     2. The method of claim 1, wherein the electrodialysis system utilizes electrodialysis or
     electrodialysis reversal.
     3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the saccharified biomass liquids comprises a
     reduced recalcitrance, cellulosic or lignocellulosic material that has been saccharified.
     4. The method of claim 3, wherein the cellulosic or lignocellulosic material has had its
     recalcitrance reduced by treatment with ionizing radiation.
     5. The method of claim 4, wherein the ionizing radiation is in the form of accelerated
     electrons.
              6. The method of any one of claims 3 through 5, wherein the cellulosic or
     lignocellulosic biomass has been saccharified utilizing one or more enzymes.
              7. The method of any one of claims 3 through 6, wherein the cellulosic or
     lignocellulosic biomass has been saccharified utilizing one or more acids.
              8. The method of claim 7, wherein the acid is sulfuric acid.
              9. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein an ionic strength of the
     saccharified biomass liquids prior to electrodialysis is between about 500 and about
     50,000 pS/cm, and wherein an ionic strength of the saccharified biomass liquids after
     electrodialysis is between 1 and 100 pS/cm.
              10. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the salts, partially
     ionized acids or fully ionized acids removed utilizing the electrodialysis system
                                                   94

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     comprise at least one element selected from the group consisting of P, K, Mg, Na, Ca, S,
     0, Mn, Al, Zn, Si, Cl and Fe.
     11. The method of any one of the above claims, further comprising purifying the
     saccharified biomass liquids by a method selected from the group consisting of
     chromatography, filtration, centrifugation, precipitation, distillation, complexation and
     combinations thereof.
     12. The method of claim 11, wherein precipitation comprises addition of one or more
     solvents or non-solvents to precipitate one or more undesired components.
     13. The method of claim 12, wherein the solvent is selected from the group consisting of
     methanol, ethanol, isopropanol, acetone, ethyl ether and tetrahydrofuran.
     14. The method of claim 12, wherein the solvent is methanol.
     15. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the saccharified biomass liquids
     comprise one or more fermentation products.
             16. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the saccharified biomass
     liquids comprises liquids that have had a fermentation product distilled therefrom.
     17. The method of claim 16, wherein the fermentation product is an alcohol.
     18. The method of claim 17, wherein the alcohol is ethanol.
     19. The method of any one of the above claims, further comprising decolorizing the
     saccharified biomass liquids utilizing a decolorizing agent.
     20. The method of claim 19, wherein the decolorizing agent is selected from the group
     consisting of powdered carbon, granular carbon, extruded carbon, bone char carbon,
     bead activated carbon, stryenic resins, acrylic resins, magnetic resins, decolorizing clays,
     bentonite, attapulgite, montmorillonite, hormite and combinations thereof.
                                                  95

WO 2014/138600                                                              PCT/US2014/021815
     21. The method of claim 19 or 20, wherein after decolorizing the color of the solution is
     less than about 100 color units.
     22. The method of claim 19 or 20, wherein after decolorizing the color of the solution is
     less than about 10 color units.
     23. The method of claim 19 or 20, wherein after decolorizing the color of the solution is
     less than about 5 color units.
     24. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein utilizing the electrodialysis
     system comprises applying a voltage of between about 10 and 150V across ion selective
     membranes while flowing the saccharified biomass liquids past the membranes.
     25. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the saccharified biomass liquids
     comprise one or more saccharides.
     26. The method of any one of the above claims, wherein the saccharified biomass liquids
     includes a sugar selected from the group consisting of xylose, glucose, arabinose,
     fructose and mixtures thereof.
     27. The method of claim 26, wherein the sugar includes xylose and the purity of the
     xylose after utilizing the electrodialysis system is at least about 80 wt.%.
     28. The method of claim 27, wherein the sugar includes arabinose and the purity of the
     arabinose after utilizing the electrodialysis system is about 0 to lwt. %.
                                                    96

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
