ABSTRACT
Technology disclosed herein relates to monitoring of effects relevant to head impacts
and/or injuries in humans.         Embodiments of the invention have been particularly
developed for enabling real-time monitoring of head impact data for participants in contact
sports systems.      This finds application, for example, in the context of managing brain
injury risks in the context of sporting activities.

                        5/12
                                        300
         Mouthguard Sensor acquires
         measurements
302     Measurements transmitted to
        body-worn device
303 FBody-worn device transmits
         measurements to sideline
       Laptop, tablet or phone receives
304    measurements, processses them
       and displays results to coach,
       trainer or doctor
                FIG. 3A

                           6/12
                                        310
 311   Mouthguard Sensor acquires
       measurements
312   Measurements transmitted to
      body-worn device
 313   Body-worn device processes
       data
     Body-worn device transmits
314  summarised or compressed data
     to the sideline
     Laptop, tablet or phone receives
 315 data, (optionally) further
     processses it and displays results
     to coach, trainer or doctor
            FIG. 3B

                                                  1
METHODS, DEVICES AND TECHNOLOGY FRAMEWORKS
CONFIGURED TO ENABLE REAL-TIME MONITORING OF
HEAD IMPACT DATA FOR PARTICIPANTS IN CONTACT
SPORTS
FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0001]     The present invention relates to methods, devices and technology frameworks
configured to enable monitoring of effects relevant to head impacts and/or injuries in
humans.     Embodiments of the invention have been particularly developed for enabling
real-time monitoring of head impact data for participants in contact sports systems. While
some embodiments will be described             herein with particular reference      to those
applications, it will be appreciated that inventions disclosed is not limited to such fields of
use, and is applicable in broader contexts.
BACKGROUND
[0002]     Any discussion of the background art throughout the specification should in no
way be considered as an admission that such art is widely known or forms part of
common general knowledge in the field.
[0003]     In the course of various activities (such as sports), participants' heads
experience accelerations and decelerations (negative accelerations), including from head
impacts. These accelerations can lead to brain injury, and even death. A single significant
brain injury can present immediate symptoms and is classified as a concussion.
Potentially more concerning is the cumulative effect of a series of smaller (or sub
concussive) impacts.      This cumulative effect has been recently discovered in American
football players and is called chronic traumatic encephalopahy (CTE).              Initial CTE
symptoms include lack of attention, disorientation, dizziness and headaches. Later stage
CTE symptoms include social instability, erratic behaviour, dementia, impeded speech
and deafness.      Currently, CTE can only be diagnosed by (post-mortem) direct tissue
analysis. Players from boxing, American football, soccer, rugby, wrestling, ice hockey,
mixed martial arts, Australian rules football, baseball, lacrosse and other contact sports
are believed to be at risk of CTE.

                                                2
[0004]      It is becoming increasingly common to monitor participants during sporting
activities via sensor devices. However, sensor systems for use in sport must be compact
and unobtrusive.      This leads to challenges in the contest of data management: for
example, a sensor-enabled device with three accelerometers and three gyroscopes, each
running at 400Hz, may generate over one thousand bytes of data per impact event.
[0005]      For accurate detection of head impacts via a motion-sensitive sensor, the
sensor must be rigidly attached to the head. In this context, attempts have been made to
make use of such sensor devices in the context of monitoring head impacts, including
mouthguard impact sensors (see, for example, US 8,104,324 and US 2012/0143526). In
many ways, mouthguards are ideal for sports sensors.         However, operations within the
space of the mouthguard are particularly challenging.          Space is extremely limited,
requiring small circuit board areas and severely limiting the battery size and power.
Space and battery constraints in turn limit the amount of computation that can be carried
out inside the mouthguard.     For example, performing the complex calculations to rotate
and translate the impact data to the centre of the brain is difficult within the mouthguard.
Thus, for accurate impact detection, the full set of impact data must be communicated to a
bigger and more capable computation device.
[0006]      The present inventors have recognised a further challenge for mouthguard
sensors is that communications from inside the mouth are difficult. When the mouth is
closed, the flesh of the lips, cheeks and head absorbs most of the transmitted radio
power.      In experiments conducted by the present inventors, the radio signal was
attenuated by approximately 50dB with the mouth closed and the range reduced from
10m to 2m.       The physical size of the mouthguard also limits the possible size of in
mouthguard radio antennae, which in turn limits the antenna gain available. As a result, it
is challenging to achieve long-range, reliable communications from a mouthguard sensing
device.    The teachings of US 2100/0181420 propose handling communications for a
mouthguard sensor via a mesh network.          However, a mesh network for mouthguard
sensing devices involved practical challenges, chiefly because of the limited range of in
mouth communication devices. For example, with 11-18 players on a field of between 50
metres to 110 metres wide, the average player-to-player spacing will from 4.5 metres
(assuming players lined up across the field - e.g. American football) to 25 metres
(Australian football players spread evenly over field). Clearly, worst-case spacing will be
much higher. For low power devices, these distances are simply too high and a reliable
mesh network cannot be formed.

                                                  3
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0007]     It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of
the disadvantages of the prior art, or to provide a useful alternative.
[0008]     One embodiment provides a system configured to enable analysis of human
head impacts, the system including: one or more human-worn hardware sets, wherein
each human-worn hardware set includes: (i) a mouthguard having one or more sensors,
wherein the sensors are configured to collectively provide a primary motion data signal, a
processor configured to receive the primary motion data signal, and a communications
module that is configured to wirelessly transmit, via a first wireless communications
protocol, a secondary motion data signal derived from the primary motion data signal; (ii) a
secondary transmitter device, wherein the secondary transmitter device is configured to
receive the secondary motion data signal via the first wireless communications protocol,
and in response communicate, via a second wireless communications protocol, a tertiary
motion data signal derived from the secondary motion data signal; and a computer system
that is configured to receive respective tertiary motion data signals from the or each of the
one or more human-worn hardware sets, wherein the computer system is configured to
process tertiary motion data thereby to determine estimated head impact data for users
associated with the or each of the one or more human-worn hardware sets.
[0009]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the first wireless communications
protocol is Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE).
[0010]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the secondary transmitter device is
provided via one of: a helmet; a garment; and another form of body-worn device.
[0011]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the secondary transmitter device is
configured to receive an input signal via the second wireless communications protocol.
[0012]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the secondary transmitter device is
configured to cause delivery of an alert signal a wearer of the human worn hardware set.
[0013]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the alert signal is delivered by the
secondary transmitter device.

                                                4
[0014]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the alert signal is delivered by the
mouthguard.
[0015]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the signal is delivered via one of:
haptic feedback; bone conduction; or a visible means.
[0016]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the input signal is defined by the
computer system.
[0017]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the computer system is configured
to process the tertiary motion data signal thereby to: (i) perform an impact analysis
process; and (ii) in response to the impact analysis process, selectively cause delivery the
input signal to the secondary transmitter device.
[0018]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the secondary transmitter device
performs compression-based processing of the secondary motion data signal as part of
defining the tertiary motion data signal.
[0019]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the secondary transmitter device
performs is configured to process the primary motion data signal thereby to: (i) perform an
impact analysis process; and (ii) in response to the impact analysis process,, selectively
cause delivery of an alert signal a wearer of the human worn hardware set.
[0020]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the alert signal is delivered by the
secondary transmitter device.
[0021]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the alert signal is delivered by the
mouthguard.
[0022]     One embodiment provides a system wherein the signal is delivered via one of:
haptic feedback; bone conduction; or a visible means.
[0023]     One embodiment provides a system wherein at least one of the mouthguards
includes at least seven accelerometer sensors mounted on the body; and a processing
device mounted on the body, wherein the processing device is configured to receive
motion data from the at least seven accelerometer sensors.

                                                5
[0024]      One embodiment provides a system wherein determine estimated head impact
data includes: receiving motion data derived from the least seven accelerometer sensors
of a given one of the mouthguards via a tertiary motion data signal; and processing the
motion data via an optimisation method thereby to, based on a combination of data
derived from each of the at least seven accelerometer sensors, determining values
representative of both linear and rotational accelerations of a brain of the human head.
[0025]      One embodiment provides a system wherein at least one of the mouthguards
includes one or more of: an accelerometer; a gyroscope; a temperature sensor; a heart
rate sensor, a step sensor, and a saliva composition sensor.
[0026]      One embodiment provides a system wherein two or more of the primary motion
data signal, secondary motion data signal and tertiary motion data signal include
substantially identical data.
[0027]      One embodiment provides a system wherein two or more of the primary motion
data signal, secondary motion data signal and tertiary motion data signal are substantially
identical.
[0028]      One embodiment provides a system wherein the first wireless communication
protocol and the second wireless communication protocol are defined by a common form
of wireless communications protocol.
[0029]      One embodiment provides a secondary transmitter device configured to operate
in a system as described herein.
[0030]      One embodiment provides a system configured to enable analysis of human
activity, the system including: one or more human-worn hardware sets, wherein each
human-worn hardware set includes: (i)         a mouthguard having one or more sensors,
wherein the sensors are configured to collectively provide a primary data signal, a
processor configured to receive the primary data signal, and a communications module
that is configured to wirelessly transmit, via a first wireless communications protocol, a
secondary data signal derived from the primary data signal; (ii)      a secondary transmitter
device, wherein the secondary transmitter device is configured to receive the secondary
data signal via the first wireless communications protocol, and in response communicate,
via a second wireless communications protocol, a tertiary data signal derived from the

                                                  6
secondary data signal; and a computer system that is configured to receive respective
tertiary data signals from the or each of the one or more human-worn hardware sets,
wherein the computer system is configured to process tertiary data thereby to determine
human activity assessment data for users associated with the or each of the one or more
human-worn hardware sets.
[0031]      One embodiment provides a computer program product for performing a
method as described herein.
[0032]      One embodiment provides a non-transitive carrier medium for carrying computer
executable code that, when executed on a processor, causes the processor to perform a
method as described herein.
[0033]      One embodiment provides a system configured for performing a method as
described herein.
[0034]      Reference     throughout    this  specification to "one   embodiment",     "some
embodiments" or "an embodiment" means that a particular feature, structure or
characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one
embodiment of the present invention.           Thus, appearances of the phrases "in one
embodiment", "in some embodiments" or "in an embodiment" in various places throughout
this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment, but may.
Furthermore, the particular features, structures or characteristics may be combined in any
suitable manner, as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this
disclosure, in one or more embodiments.
[0035]      As used herein, unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives
"first", "second", "third", etc., to describe a common object, merely indicate that different
instances of like objects are being referred to, and are not intended to imply that the
objects so described must be in a given sequence, either temporally, spatially, in ranking,
or in any other manner.
[0036]      In the claims below and the description herein, any one of the terms comprising,
comprised of or which comprises is an open term that means including at least the
elements/features that follow, but not excluding others. Thus, the term comprising, when
used in the claims, should not be interpreted as being limitative to the means or elements

                                                  7
or steps listed thereafter. For example, the scope of the expression a device comprising
A and B should not be limited to devices consisting only of elements A and B. Any one of
the terms including or which includes or that includes as used herein is also an open term
that also means including at least the elements/features that follow the term, but not
excluding others. Thus, including is synonymous with and means comprising.
[0037]     As used herein, the term "exemplary" is used in the sense of providing
examples, as opposed to indicating quality. That is, an "exemplary embodiment" is an
embodiment provided as an example, as opposed to necessarily being an embodiment of
exemplary quality.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
[0038]     Embodiments of the invention will now be described, by way of example only,
with reference to the accompanying drawings in which:
[0039]     FIG. 1 schematically illustrates a system according to one embodiment,
including an example mouthguard device.
[0040]     FIG. 2A illustrates a mouthguard device according to one embodiment.
[0041]     FIG. 2B illustrates components of a mouthguard device according to one
embodiment.
[0042]     FIG. 2C illustrates a mouthguard device according to one embodiment.
[0043]     FIG. 3A illustrates a method according to one embodiment.
[0044]     FIG. 3B illustrates a method according to one embodiment.
[0045]     FIG. 3C illustrates a method according to one embodiment.
[0046]     FIG. 3D illustrates a method according to one embodiment.
[0047]     FIG. 4A illustrates typical impact accelerations.
[0048]     FIG. 4B illustrates an impact activity function according to one embodiment.

                                                  8
[0049]     FIG. 5A illustrates an example secondary transmitter device.
[0050]     FIG. 5B illustrates an example secondary transmitter device.
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0051]     Described herein are methods, devices and technology framework configured to
enable monitoring of effects relevant to head impacts and/or injuries in humans.
Embodiments of the invention have been particularly developed for enabling real-time
monitoring of head impact data for participants in contact sports systems. Also described
is technology related more specifically to sensor-enabled mouthguards. Embodiments of
the invention have been particularly developed to provide sensor-enabled mouthguards
configured to enable monitoring of head impact data via multiple accelerometers, and data
processing methods configured to analyse data derived from multiple accelerometers
carried by a sensor-enabled mouthguard. While some embodiments will be described
herein with particular reference to those applications, it will be appreciated that inventions
disclosed is not limited to such fields of use, and is applicable in broader contexts.
[0052]     The technology is described primarily by reference to applications in the context
of monitoring participants in team sporting activities that occur on a playing field, such as
various codes of football. However, it will be appreciated that the technology is equally
applicable to a range of other environments where head impacts and the like are a
potential concern.
Example Framework
[0053]     FIG. 1 illustrates a framework according to one embodiment, in the form of a
system configured to enable analysis of human head impacts. It should be appreciated
that further embodiments substitute various components shown herein for alternate
components that perform corresponding functionalities.         For example, the mouthguard
device shown is an example only, and various other forms of mouthguard may be used.
Furthermore, the technology is not limited to analysis of human head impacts, and may be
adapted to other forms of activity monitoring (for example mouthgards with sensors
configured to monitor steps, heart rate, and so on).
[0054]     The framework of FIG. 1 has been specifically designed to manage technical
problems associated with monitoring of participants via mouthguard carried sensors. In

                                                 9
particular, there are technical challenges in terms of both communication ranges and data
processing, which are managed by aspects f the technology described below.
[0055]      The framework includes one or more human-worn hardware sets (for example
in one implementation the technology is applied to monitor a single individual participant in
an activity, whereas in other implementations the technology is applied to monitor multiple
participants, such as an entire team in a team-based activity).           Each human-worn
hardware set includes: (i) a mouthguard device (such as device 101) having one or more
sensors; and (ii) a secondary transmitter device (such as 110).
[0056]      Each mouthguard device includes one or more sensors that are configured to
collectively provide a primary motion data signal. These sensors may include any one or
more of accelerometers, gyroscopes, temperature sensors, saliva composition sensors,
and other forms of sensor (for example including heart rate and/or step sensors). FIG. 1
illustrates  an   example     mouthguard   device    100   which   includes  a  plurality  of
accelerometers (101-1 to 101-n). This example is not intended to be limiting, although
various embodiments are described in detail further below in relation to particular
mouthguard and processing technology based on a mouthguard device including seven or
more accelerometer sensors (for example three spaced apart 3-axis accelerometer
devices). Each mouthguard also includes a processor configured to receive the primary
motion data signal, and a communications module that is configured to wirelessly
transmit, via a first wireless communications protocol, a secondary motion data signal
derived from the primary motion data signal. As illustrated, example mouthguard device
 100 includes a processor 104 and a communications module 105. Mouthguard device
 100 additionally includes a power supply 102, and a memory module 103 (which carries
computer-executable software instructions that are executed via processor 104 thereby to
enable the performance of computer-implemented methods).
[0057]      The processing involved in converting the primary motion data signal to the
secondary motion data signal varies between embodiments.              For example, in some
embodiments raw data from sensor components is subjected to minimal processing other
than packetizing for wireless transmission. In further embodiments the mouthguard's on
board processor is configured to perform various forms of compression, pre-processing
and/or buffering.   It will be appreciated that this is a matter of design choice based, at
least in part, on selection of the processing device (for example in terms of processing
power).

                                                   10
[0058]     The first wireless communications protocol is preferably a low-power short
range protocol. For example, preferred embodiments make use of Bluetooth Low Energy
(BLE).    BLE was identified as a particularly useful technology due to the ability to
miniaturise power and transmission components into a form suitable for embedding in a
mouthguard wholly contained in a human mouth (including an antenna device). However,
it has an inherently limited range.
[0059]     To account for the limited range of BLE (and in further embodiments limited
ranges of other primary communications protocols), each secondary transmitter device is
configured    to receive the secondary         motion    data signal via the first wireless
communications protocol, and in response communicate, via a second wireless
communications protocol, a tertiary motion data signal derived from the secondary motion
data signal. The secondary wireless communications protocol is preferably reliable over a
medium-range (for example 20-200m). In some embodiments communications protocols
such as WiFi and Bluetooth are used.         However, in other embodiments other wireless
communications protocols (including custom radio frequency protocols) are used. The
secondary transmitter device is less constrained by size, along for a larger power supply
and antenna given that it is not constrained by the internal space in a participant's mouth.
Preferably, the secondary transmitter device is a body-worn device, such as GPS tracker,
helmet mounted device, heart rate monitor, watch, phone or the like. Substantially any
electronic device having one or more radios for receiving data from the mouthguard and
transmitting via an appropriate form of second wireless communications protocol.
[0060]     The processing involved in converting the secondary motion data signal to the
tertiary motion data signal varies between embodiments. Given potential to incorporate
additional processing power in the body-worn device (for example where a smartphone or
similarly powerful device is used), there are advantages associated with performing a
degree of data simplification, for example data compression. This reduces the amount of
data required to be transferred via the secondary communications protocol. Other forms
of processing include filtering, artefact identification (for example identifying data attributes
potentially representative of an impact event thereby to reduce the need for ongoing
transmission of irrelevant data), so on. In some embodiments the processing includes
classification, for example to classify observed events (e.g. predicted impacts) into one or
more of a plurality of predefined categories. For instance, these may include categories
defined for common forms of head impacts (frontal, side, etc), and optionally include
sport-specific impact types (for example types of impacts associated with particular sports

                                               11
such as boxing, MMA and the like).        In some embodiments processing is performed
thereby to perform either or both (i) a comprehensive impact analysis (for example as
discussed below), and (ii) a basic impact analysis (for example to identify data values
above predefined thresholds for alerts to be generated).
[0061]    An example secondary body-worn transmitter 110 is illustrated in FIG. 1,
showing required hardware components. These are a: a power supply 111, a memory
module 112, a processor 113 and a communications module 114 (which may include
multiple communication components, thereby to allow transmission/receipt via the primary
and secondary wireless communications protocols, for example a BLE module and a WiFi
module). It will be appreciated that a wide range of known body-worn devices (or devices
able to be presented in a wearable configuration) provide these components. The device
may be carried, by way of example, via a helmet (see FIG. 5A) or a back-mounted unit
(see FIG. 5B). Other examples include ear-worn devices and skin attached devices (for
example as provided by X2 Biosystems).
[0062]    In the example of FIG. 1, secondary transmitter 110 and a plurality of further
mouthguard/body worn transmitter hardware sets 130 are in communication with a
computer system via the secondary communications protocol, serves as an impact data
processing system 120.        System 120 may be defined by substantially any form of
computing platform (including an individual terminal or set of networked terminals) having
the threshold necessary components of: a power supply 121, memory module 122,
processor 123 and communications module 124 configured to receive and transmit over
the secondary communications protocol.
[0063]    System 120 is configured to receive respective tertiary motion data signals from
the or each of the one or more human-worn hardware sets, and process the tertiary
motion data thereby to determine estimated head impact data for users associated with
the or each of the one or more human-worn hardware sets. The nature of this processing
varies between embodiments, and depends to a greater extent on the nature of data
being collected by the mouthguard device. Specific examples are provided further below
in the context of a mouthguard device having seven or more accelerometers (and no
gyroscopes).
[0064]    FIG. 1 also illustrates an example client device 140 having a display screen 141
configured to display data defined by system 120 based on processing of data derived

                                                12
from a given one or more of the mouthguard devices (for example data representative of
head impacts, participants who have suffered above threshold head impacts, and so on).
For example, in some embodiments device 140 executes a user interface (for example an
app or web browser) configured to communicate with system 140 thereby to obtain and
present such data. Functions of device 140 are optionally provided by system 130 in
further embodiments.
[0065]      As described above, communications are unidirectional, flowing in a direction
from mouthguard 100 to device 140.          In some embodiments there is functionality to
provide communications in a reverse direction, for example to provide feedback to the
participant and/or feedback via the participant that is identifiable to a further person (for
example an LED on the mouthguard which could then be seen by another participant,
official or coach). In that regard, in some embodiments the secondary transmitter device
is configured to receive an input signal via the second wireless communications protocol,
and in response cause delivery of an alert signal a wearer of the human worn hardware
set. That alert signal may be delivered by the secondary transmitter device, or by the
mouthguard.       The signal is optionally delivered via one of: haptic feedback; bone
conduction (for example using the mouthguard and via teeth); or a visible means.
[0066]      In the context of defining an upstream alert signal, in some embodiments
system 130 is configured to (i) perform a comprehensive impact analysis; and (ii) perform
a basic impact analysis and, in response to the basis impact analysis, selectively cause
delivery the input signal to the secondary transmitter device.       In further embodiments
secondary transmitter device performs is configured to process the primary motion data
signal thereby to: (i) define the secondary motion data signal, which allows for a
comprehensive impact analysis by the computer system; and (ii) perform a basic impact
analysis and, in response to the basis impact analysis, selectively cause delivery of an
alert signal a wearer of the human worn hardware set.
[0067]      FIG. 3A to FIG. 3D illustrate methods according to various embodiments, which
are able to be performed by the framework of FIG. 1 or another similar framework.
[0068]      Method 300 of FIG. 3A includes: measurements              being acquired by a
mouthguard sensor device at 301, those measurements being transmitted to a body-worn
device at 302, the body worn device transmitting those to a sideline computer system at

                                                 13
303, and a computing device processing the measurements thereby to define result data
for transmission to a coach, trainer, doco or the like.
[0069]     Method 310 of FIG.        3B includes: measurements         being acquired by a
mouthguard sensor device at 311, those measurements being transmitted to a body-worn
device at 312, the body worn device processing received data at 313 thereby to define
summary/compressed data, the body worn device transmitting that data to a sideline
computer system at 314, and computing device further processing the data (if necessary)
and presenting result data for transmission to a coach, trainer, doctor or the like.
[0070]     Method 330 of FIG. 3 includes: data being processed by the body-worn device
thereby to determine a "simple" result, for example a determination that observed motion
data includes above-threshold attributes at 331, result data being transmitted to the
mouthguard sensor device at 332, and the mouthguard sensor device delivering feedback
representative of the result data at 333. In some cases the result data is limited to an alert
signal (indicative of a likely concession or the like); in other embodiments a green light/red
light binary notification arrangement is used.
[0071]     Method 340 of FIG. 3D includes: data being processed by a sideline device
thereby to determine a "simple" result, for example a determination that observed motion
data includes above-threshold attributes at 341, result data being transmitted to the body
worn device at 342, result data being transmitted to the mouthguard sensor device at 343,
and the mouthguard sensor device delivering feedback representative of the result data at
344. Again, in some cases the result data is limited to an alert signal (indicative of a likely
concession or the like); in other embodiments a green light/red light binary notification
arrangement is used.
[0072]     It should be appreciated that technology described above enables convenient
collection and processing of activity data, thereby to allow reporting on potentially
problematic head impacts/injuries.
Example Mouthguard Device
[0073]     FIG. 2A to FIG. 2C illustrate example mouthguard devices, any of which are
optionally used in the context of the framework of FIG. 1. It should be appreciated,
however, that the framework of FIG. 1 is not limited in the sense of requiring presence of

                                                  14
those particular example mouthguards, and the illustrated mouthguards are also not
limited in their application to the framework illustrated in FIG. 1.
[0074]      A conventional approach for performing motion activity readings is to use a
combination of accelerometers and gyroscopes. Accelerometers are useful in measuring
linear accelerations; gyroscope readings are differentiated to provide rotational
accelerations. It is known to use compact, micro-electromechanical (MEMS) gyroscopes,
these having internal vibrating elements configured to measure perturbation of those
elements caused by rotation. Unfortunately, these are sensitive to impact, in that impact
forces also cause perturbations of the vibrating elements. Thus MEMS gyroscopes are a
poor choice for mouthguard impact sensors. Further drawbacks of MEMS gyroscopes
include dramatically higher power consumption (compared to accelerometers) and lower
bandwidth.
[0075]      The present inventors have developed technology that allows for accurate
determination of linear and rotational accelerations using accelerometers alone (i.e.
without the use of gyroscopes), which provides significant advantages in the context of
mouthguard sensor devices (for example in terms of size, power efficiency, and
overcoming issues noted above in relation to gyroscopes).
[0076]      As discussed further below, by using particular optimisation methods for sensor
data processing, the present inventors have been able to design and functionally
configure a mouthguard device having seven or more accelerometers. The mouthguard
acts as a device configured to enable analysis of human head motion data. It is defined
by a body, forme of resilient plastics material, which is configured to be worn as a
mouthguard. For most accurate impact data, and for comfort, the mouthguard should be
custom-fitted to the player - not a generic or "boil-and-bite" mouthguard that fits poorly
and can move around on the teeth and, hence, give much less accurate data. At least
seven accelerometer sensors mounted on the body; these are preferably embedded in
cavities within the resilient plastics.   The at least seven accelerometer sensors may
include one or more 3-axis accelerometer devices.           Preferred embodiments described
below make use of three 3-axis accelerometer devices, thereby providing nine
accelerometer sensors. Although examples are described by reference to such a nine
accelerometer implementation, it will be appreciated that the number may be reduced to
seven without affecting the ability to use optimisation methods as presently considered.
The mouthguard additionally includes a processing device mounted on the body (again

                                                15
preferably embedded within the plastics, for example carried on a circuit board having
other components thereon such as a memory module, power supply and the like). The
processing device is configured to receive motion data from the at least seven
accelerometer sensors.
[0077]     The example of FIG. 1 includes a body 200, with accelerometers 210, 202 and
203 internally mounted at the shown spaced apart locations. A processor circuit board
204 is internally mounted on a frontal region,, and this is coupled to an antenna 205 which
wraps around a larger fontal region.        The antenna is configured to allow wireless
communications (for example via BLE as discussed above) for transmission and
optionally receipt of digital communications.    FIG. 2C provides a schematic illustration
having similar reference numerals to those shown in FIG. 2A, additionally separately
showing battery 205 and associated wireless charging receiver 206, along with a memory
module 207.       The example of FIG. 2C illustrates another embodiment of similar
configuration to that shown in FIG. 2A.
[0078]     As described in more detail further below, the received motion data from the at
least seven accelerometer sensors is processed thereby to determine values
representative of both linear and rotational accelerations of a brain of a wearer of the
device. The processing includes applying an optimisation method thereby to, based on a
combination of data derived from each of the at least seven accelerometer sensors,
determine values representative of both linear and rotational accelerations of a brain of
the human head.
Example Processing Method
[0079]     Some    embodiments take the form         of computer implemented       methods
configured for receiving motion data derived from at least seven accelerometer sensors,
being accelerometer sensors are mounted substantially rigidly to a human head, thereby
to determine attributes of head motion. The methods include processing the motion data
via an optimisation method thereby to, based on a combination of data derived from each
of the at least seven accelerometer sensors, determining values representative of both
linear and rotational accelerations of a brain of the human head. Where these methods
are used in the context of the framework and mouthguard devices discussed above, the at
least seven accelerometer sensors are mounted substantially rigidly to a human head by
way of a mouthguard device to which the sensors are mounted.

                                                   16
[0080]     An example processing method is described in the following sections.
Rigid Body Motion
[0081]     As a general principle, each accelerometer measures the linear acceleration at
its centre. Assuming that the accelerometers are rigidly attached to the head/skull, it is
possible to model a rigid body motion. We define a (moving) reference frame attached to
the head at a point of interest (preferably the centre of the brain). For a rigid body motion
of the head, the 3-vector describing the linear acceleration at a point of interest is given
by:
        a,  = ah + ah x r,+ oh x      (G  x r,)
[0082]     where ap is the acceleration at the point of interest, ah is the 3-vector linear
acceleration of the head and moving reference frame, ah is the 3-vector rotational
acceleration of the head and reference frame, r is the 3-vector position of the point of
interest with respect to the moving reference frame and           Ca is the 3-vector rotational
velocity of the head and reference frame. For sports impact detection, we can neglect
gravitational forces - impacts are much larger.
[0083]     For a single-axis sensor oriented in an arbitrary direction, we can determine the
expected measurement by projecting the 3-vector acceleration onto the desired direction:
        a  = 4 . [ah+     ah x ri + Wh x (oh x r)]
[0084]     where ai is the 1-dimensional expected measurement and df is a unit vector
indicating the direction of the sensor.
Single Time Instant Model
[0085]     The     vector      triple  product     Ua X (Wh X ri)   may    be    rewritten   as
6460i, r) - r(      ,- ' ). If we rewrite Whas Oh-Pp +     Os,. where 0"'v-P is the component

                                                           17
perpendicular to rf,             then we can simplify and re-write the vector triple product
as-r1(&)vrz - &r)hy           p.
[0086]     So the acceleration at a point of interest along a particular sensor direction
becomes:
        a t,          a h"+    Cib X ri -  ri (&)kep     .EA
[0087]     If we assume that 'riPerP                 is approximately the same for all the different
accelerometer locations, then for each sensor, the r and t are known and the other
values are common across all sensors. Thus, we can write an optimisation problem to
solve for the unknown linear and rotational head accelerations and            MrkPn' from at least 7
accelerometer measurements.
[0088]     For a 9 accelerometer system we can model measured values from the brain
centred linear and rotational accelerations as follows:
        Ax = B + E                                                                 (1)
        where
                     i t-[r    1  ],  -4-r      1
                 2 '2 - rz ,
                Zf                    -?z r2
              if 3 if 3 .-r],         -? 3 r3
              i 4       P4 - [r4],    -44      r4
        A = f5         is - [rs],     -P, -r
              24       4P.- [r6 ],    -f 6 -r
              if  7     f7 -  [ry],   -f7    - ry
              ?P3      ?to - Ira].    -7ps-    rs
              if9      if 9 - [r,]    -f,    -r.
        and  x   is the 7-vector of head linear and rotational accelerations and orup,
        x=          a
                   rb
                    an

                                               18
        and B is the 9x1 measurement vector, consisting of the readings:
             .a,
              a2
              a3
              a4
        B = as
              a6
              a,
              a9 J
        and E is the measurement error and [s], is the skew-symmetric cross product
        matrix:
                 [0     -s3    S2
        [s], =    sa     0    -Si
                 -S2    S1      0
[0089]     Equation (1) is, in preferred embodiments, solved with the pseudo-inverse:
        S= (ATA)-lATB
[0090]     The derivation above assumes a set of 9 acceleration sensors, because
accelerometers are readily available in sets of 3 (3-axis accelerometers).       A suitably
skilled person will recognise that any number of accelerometers can be supported by
using the same number of rows in the matrices A and B.              Note that the vector of
parameters   x  has 7 elements, so a minimum of 7 accelerometers are required.
 Temporal Model Fitting
[0091]     The single time instant model above incorporates only measurements (and the
sensor noise) from a single time instant. We can improve the estimation by incorporating
data from a series of measurements over a period of time.                  By using many
measurements, the sensor noise can be averaged and reduced.
[0092]     We define a parameterised temporal model for the head linear and rotational
accelerations as ah(tX) and ah(t,X) respectively, where X is a vector of parameters and

                                                 19
t is the discrete time index. We further model the initial rotational velocity eso(X) and
can therefore determine the rotational velocity as a function of time by integration:
         Oh(t,X) =   Oso(X) +      ah(sX)6T
                               S=0
        where 6T is the sampling period.
[0093]     For a 1-axis accelerometer, we can model the error as:
        E1 (t,X) = a(t)-4. -[ah(t,X) +a(t,X) x r1 + e(t,X) x (w(t,X) Xr)]             (2)
[0094]     Then for a series of time steps and a sequence of measurements, we can
compute the total model error as:
        E(X) =        =                                                   (3)
        We can then apply numerical optimisation methods to find the estimated
        parameter vector that minimises the model error:
          X=argmin E(X)
[0095]     Note that this is a non-linear optimisation problem.
[0096]     Again, the derivation above assumes a set of 9 acceleration sensors. However,
a suitably skilled person will recognise that, any number of 7 or more of accelerometers
can be utilised and in the accelerometers can be in any distributed arrangement.
 Temporal Models

                                                20
[0097]      For head impacts, typical curves are as shown FIG. 4A. There is a linear ramp
up phase during which the impact is delivered to the head, followed by a damped second
order response as the head rebounds. We define the parameter vector as:
               - tE
        X  =
        where ti is the impact time, tr is the initial rise time, rna= is the maximum head
        linear acceleration, amax is maximum head rotational acceleration and      Wo is the
        initial head rotational velocity.
[0098]      We model the impact activity function as:
                                    0             if t<tj-t,
                                 1-  tJ.
                       yjI(t-1,X)+Y2I(t-2,X)       otherwise
        where Y1 and Y2 are fixed parameters that describe the second-order dynamics of
        the player's head. The impact activity function is shown in FIG. 4B, showing the
        initial linear rise and the subsequent damped second-order response.
[0099]      We then model the head linear acceleration as:
        ah(t,X) =    a..,1(tX)
        and the rotational acceleration as:
        ah(tX) = a.,1(tX)

                                                 21
[00100]     This model is a good fit for observed head impact data and contains a minimal
number of parameters for fitting head impact data. As such, this model is ideally suited to
estimation with head impact data, providing for good, accurate fitting with minimum
computational effort. Hence, it is particularly suitable for incorporation into a framework
such as that of FIG. 1 above, using mouthguards such as those shown in FIG. 2A to 2C.
[00101]     A suitably skilled person will recognise that a range of temporal models can be
used, with increasing numbers of parameters, up to and including a complete model that
includes all of the linear and rotational accelerations at all time instants. However, the
best model to use is one that is truly representative of the data in question with the
minimum number of parameters.
Initial Estimate
[00102]     The use of pseudo-inverse solving of Equation (1) described above is, in
preferred embodiments, used to generate an initial estimate for the parameter vector X.
This will reduce the time spent performing the numerical optimisation and improve the
resultant estimate accuracy.
Alternate Embodiment #1
[00103]     An alternate embodiment is to just use the pseudo-inverse solving of Equation
(1) described above to determine the estimated head linear and rotational accelerations at
each time step. This approach is much faster and may be suitable for rapid diagnosis or
display (for example to provide real-time alert signals as discussed further above).
However, the lack of integration over time will yield less accurate results that are more
affected by the sensor noise.
Conclusions and Interpretation
[00104]     It will be appreciated that the disclosure above provides various significant
systems and methods for monitoring human activity, including novel and innovative
technologies relating to mouthguards, data processing, and monitoring communications
frameworks.

                                                  22
[00105]    Unless specifically stated otherwise, as apparent from the following discussions,
it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as
"processing," "computing," "calculating," "determining", analyzing" or the like, refer to the
action and/or processes of a computer or computing system, or similar electronic
computing device, that manipulate and/or transform data represented as physical, such as
electronic, quantities into other data similarly represented as physical quantities.
[00106]    In a similar manner, the term "processor" may refer to any device or portion of a
device that processes electronic data, e.g., from registers and/or memory to transform that
electronic data into other electronic data that, e.g., may be stored in registers and/or
memory. A "computer" or a "computing machine" or a "computing platform" may include
one or more processors.
[00107]    The methodologies described herein are, in one embodiment, performable by
one or more processors that accept computer-readable (also called machine-readable)
code containing a set of instructions that when executed by one or more of the processors
carry out at least one of the methods described herein.           Any processor capable of
executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify actions to be taken
are included. Thus, one example is a typical processing system that includes one or more
processors. Each processor may include one or more of a CPU, a graphics processing
unit, and a programmable DSP unit.           The processing system further may include a
memory subsystem including main RAM and/or a static RAM, and/or ROM.                  A bus
subsystem may be included for communicating between the components. The processing
system further may be a distributed processing system with processors coupled by a
network. If the processing system requires a display, such a display may be included,
e.g., a liquid crystal display (LCD) or a cathode ray tube (CRT) display. If manual data
entry is required, the processing system also includes an input device such as one or
more of an alphanumeric input unit such as a keyboard, a pointing control device such as
a mouse, and so forth. The term memory unit as used herein, if clear from the context
and unless explicitly stated otherwise, also encompasses a storage system such as a disk
drive unit. The processing system in some configurations may include a sound output
device, and a network interface device.            The memory subsystem thus includes a
computer-readable carrier medium that carries computer-readable code (e.g., software)
including a set of instructions to cause performing, when executed by one or more
processors, one of more of the methods described herein. Note that when the method
includes several elements, e.g., several steps, no ordering of such elements is implied,

                                                 23
unless specifically stated. The software may reside in the hard disk, or may also reside,
completely or at least partially, within the RAM and/or within the processor during
execution thereof by the computer system. Thus, the memory and the processor also
constitute computer-readable carrier medium carrying computer-readable code.
[00108]     Furthermore, a computer-readable carrier medium may form, or be included in a
computer program product.
[00109]     In alternative embodiments, the one or more processors operate as a
standalone device or may be connected, e.g., networked to other processor(s), in a
networked deployment, the one or more processors may operate in the capacity of a
server or a user machine in server-user network environment, or as a peer machine in a
peer-to-peer or distributed network environment. The one or more processors may form a
personal computer (PC), a tablet PC, a set-top box (STB), a Personal Digital Assistant
(PDA), a cellular telephone, a web appliance, a network router, switch or bridge, or any
machine capable of executing a set of instructions (sequential or otherwise) that specify
actions to be taken by that machine.
[00110]     Note that while diagrams only show a single processor and a single memory
that carries the computer-readable code, those in the art will understand that many of the
components described above are included, but not explicitly shown or described in order
not to obscure the inventive aspect.          For example, while only a single machine is
illustrated, the term "machine" shall also be taken to include any collection of machines
that individually or jointly execute a set (or multiple sets) of instructions to perform any one
or more of the methodologies discussed herein.
[00111]     Thus, one embodiment of each of the methods described herein is in the form of
a computer-readable carrier medium carrying a set of instructions, e.g., a computer
program that is for execution on one or more processors, e.g., one or more processors
that are part of web server arrangement. Thus, as will be appreciated by those skilled in
the art, embodiments of the present invention may be embodied as a method, an
apparatus such as a special purpose apparatus, an apparatus such as a data processing
system, or a computer-readable carrier medium, e.g., a computer program product. The
computer-readable carrier medium carries computer readable code including a set of
instructions that when executed on one or more processors cause the processor or
processors to implement a method. Accordingly, aspects of the present invention may

                                                24
take the form of a method, an entirely hardware embodiment, an entirely software
embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Furthermore,
the present invention may take the form of carrier medium (e.g., a computer program
product on a computer-readable storage medium) carrying computer-readable program
code embodied in the medium.
[00112]    The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via a
network interface device.       While the carrier medium is shown in an exemplary
embodiment to be a single medium, the term "carrier medium" should be taken to include
a single medium or multiple media (e.g., a centralized or distributed database, and/or
associated caches and servers) that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term
"carrier medium" shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing,
encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by one or more of the processors
and that cause the one or more processors to perform any one or more of the
methodologies of the present invention.         A carrier medium may take many forms,
including but not limited to, non-volatile media, volatile media, and transmission media.
Non-volatile media includes, for example, optical, magnetic disks, and magneto-optical
disks. Volatile media includes dynamic memory, such as main memory. Transmission
media includes coaxial cables, copper wire and fiber optics, including the wires that
comprise a bus subsystem. Transmission media also may also take the form of acoustic
or light waves, such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data
communications. For example, the term "carrier medium" shall accordingly be taken to
included, but not be limited to, solid-state memories, a computer product embodied in
optical and magnetic media; a medium bearing a propagated signal detectable by at least
one processor of one or more processors and representing a set of instructions that, when
executed, implement a method; and a transmission medium in a network bearing a
propagated signal detectable by at least one processor of the one or more processors and
representing the set of instructions.
[00113]    It will be understood that the steps of methods discussed are performed in one
embodiment by an appropriate processor (or processors) of a processing (i.e., computer)
system executing instructions (computer-readable code) stored in storage. It will also be
understood that the invention is not limited to any particular implementation           or
programming technique and that the invention may be implemented using any appropriate
techniques for implementing the functionality described herein.      The invention is not
limited to any particular programming language or operating system.

                                                25
[00114]    It should be appreciated        that  in the above description     of exemplary
embodiments of the invention, various features of the invention are sometimes grouped
together in a single embodiment, FIG., or description thereof for the purpose of
streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various
inventive aspects.      This method of disclosure, however, is not to be interpreted as
reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are expressly
recited in each claim. Rather, as the following claims reflect, inventive aspects lie in less
than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus, the claims following
the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description,
with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this invention.
[00115]    Furthermore, while some embodiments described herein include some but not
other features included in other embodiments, combinations of features of different
embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention, and form different
embodiments, as would be understood by those skilled in the art.        For example, in the
following claims, any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination.
[00116]    Furthermore, some of the embodiments are described herein as a method or
combination of elements of a method that can be implemented by a processor of a
computer system or by other means of carrying out the function. Thus, a processor with
the necessary instructions for carrying out such a method or element of a method forms a
means for carrying out the method or element of a method.          Furthermore, an element
described herein of an apparatus embodiment is an example of a means for carrying out
the function performed by the element for the purpose of carrying out the invention.
[00117]    In the description provided herein, numerous specific details are set forth.
However, it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without
these specific details. In other instances, well-known methods, structures and techniques
have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this description.
[00118]    Similarly, it is to be noticed that the term coupled, when used in the claims,
should not be interpreted as being limited to direct connections only. The terms "coupled"
and "connected," along with their derivatives, may be used. It should be understood that
these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Thus, the scope of the
expression a device A coupled to a device B should not be limited to devices or systems
wherein an output of device A is directly connected to an input of device B. It means that

                                                  26
there exists a path between an output of A and an input of B which may be a path
including other devices or means. "Coupled" may mean that two or more elements are
either in direct physical or electrical contact, or that two or more elements are not in direct
contact with each other but yet still co-operate or interact with each other.
[00119]    Thus, while there has been described what are believed to be the preferred
embodiments of the invention, those skilled in the art will recognize that other and further
modifications may be made thereto without departing from the spirit of the invention, and it
is intended to claim all such changes and modifications as falling within the scope of the
invention.    For example, any formulas given above are merely representative of
procedures that may be used.         Functionality may be added or deleted from the block
diagrams and operations may be interchanged among functional blocks. Steps may be
added or deleted to methods described within the scope of the present invention.

                                            27
CLAIMS:
1.  A system configured to enable analysis of human head impacts, the system
     including:
     one or more human-worn hardware sets, wherein each human-worn hardware
     set includes:
     (i)  a mouthguard having one or more sensors, wherein the sensors are
          configured to collectively provide a primary motion data signal, a processor
          configured to receive the primary motion data signal, and a communications
          module that is configured to wirelessly transmit, via a first wireless
          communications protocol, a secondary motion data signal derived from the
          primary motion data signal;
     (ii) a secondary transmitter device, wherein the secondary transmitter device is
          configured to receive the secondary motion data signal via the first wireless
          communications protocol, and in response communicate, via a second
          wireless communications protocol, a tertiary motion data signal derived from
          the secondary motion data signal; and
     a computer system that is configured to receive respective tertiary motion data
     signals from the or each of the one or more human-worn hardware sets, wherein
    the computer system is configured to process tertiary motion data thereby to
    determine estimated head impact data for users associated with the or each of
    the one or more human-worn hardware sets.
2.  A system according to claim 1 wherein the first wireless communications protocol
     is Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE).
3.  A method according to claim 1 or claim 2 wherein the secondary transmitter
    device is provided via one of: a helmet; a garment; and another form of body
    worn device.
4.  A system according to any preceding claim wherein the secondary transmitter
    device is configured to receive an input signal via the second wireless
    communications protocol.

                                            28
5.  A system according to claim 4 wherein the secondary transmitter device is
    configured to cause delivery of an alert signal a wearer of the human worn
    hardware set.
6.  A system according to claim 5 wherein the alert signal is delivered by the
    secondary transmitter device.
7.  A system according to claim 5 wherein the alert signal is delivered by the
    mouthguard.
8.  A system according to claim 6 or claim 7 wherein the signal is delivered via one
    of: haptic feedback; bone conduction; or a visible means.
9.  A system according to any one of claims 4 to claim 8 wherein the input signal is
    defined by the computer system.
10. A system according to claim 9 wherein the computer system is configured to
    process the tertiary motion data signal thereby to: (i) perform an impact analysis
    process; and (ii) in response to the impact analysis process, selectively cause
    delivery the input signal to the secondary transmitter device.
11. A system according to any preceding claim wherein the secondary transmitter
    device performs compression-based processing of the secondary motion data
    signal as part of defining the tertiary motion data signal.
12. A system according to any preceding claim wherein the secondary transmitter
    device performs is configured to process the primary motion data signal thereby
    to: (i) perform an impact analysis process; and (ii) in response to the impact
    analysis process,, selectively cause delivery of an alert signal a wearer of the
    human worn hardware set.
13. A system according to claim 12 wherein the alert signal is delivered by the
    secondary transmitter device.
14. A system according to claim 12 wherein the alert signal is delivered by the
    mouthguard.

                                           29
15. A system according to claim 13 or claim 14 wherein the signal is delivered via
    one of: haptic feedback; bone conduction; or a visible means.
16. A system according to any preceding claim wherein at least one of the
    mouthguards includes at least seven accelerometer sensors mounted on the
    body; and a processing device mounted on the body, wherein the processing
    device is configured to receive motion data from the at least seven accelerometer
    sensors.
17. A system according to claim 16 wherein determine estimated head impact data
    includes: receiving motion data derived from the least seven accelerometer
    sensors of a given one of the mouthguards via a tertiary motion data signal; and
    processing the motion data via an optimisation method thereby to, based on a
    combination of data derived from each of the at least seven accelerometer
    sensors, determining values       representative of both linear and rotational
    accelerations of a brain of the human head.
18. A system according to any one of claim 1 to claim 17 wherein at least one of the
    mouthguards includes one or more of: an accelerometer; a gyroscope; a
    temperature sensor; a heart rate sensor, a step sensor, and a saliva composition
    sensor.
19. A system according to any one of claim 1 to claim 18 wherein two or more of the
    primary motion data signal, secondary motion data signal and tertiary motion
    data signal include substantially identical data.
20. A system according to any one of claim 1 to claim 18 wherein two or more of the
    primary motion data signal, secondary motion data signal and tertiary motion
    data signal are substantially identical.
21. A system according to any one of claim 1 to claim 20 wherein the first wireless
    communication protocol and the second wireless communication protocol are
    defined by a common form of wireless communications protocol.
22. A secondary transmitter device configured to operate in a system according to
    any preceding claim.

                                           30
23. A system configured to enable analysis of human activity, the system including:
    one or more human-worn hardware sets, wherein each human-worn hardware
    set includes:
    (i)  a mouthguard having one or more sensors, wherein the sensors are
         configured to collectively provide a primary data signal, a processor
         configured to receive the primary data signal, and a communications module
         that is configured to wirelessly transmit, via a first wireless communications
         protocol, a secondary data signal derived from the primary data signal;
    (ii) a secondary transmitter device, wherein the secondary transmitter device is
         configured to receive the secondary data signal via the first wireless
         communications protocol, and in response communicate, via a second
         wireless communications protocol, a tertiary data signal derived from the
         secondary data signal; and
    a computer system that is configured to receive respective tertiary data signals
    from the or each of the one or more human-worn hardware sets, wherein the
    computer system is configured to process tertiary data thereby to determine
    human activity assessment data for users associated with the or each of the one
    or more human-worn hardware sets.

                                                                         1/12
<removed-date>
                                     101-1                    101-2                              101-n
                    100
                                        Accelerometer 1            Accelerometer 1     ...           Accelerometer n
                                        Power Supply          Memory               Processor                Comms
                                                 102                103                  104                     105
                                                              Example Mouthguard Device
<removed-apn>
                                                                           111                                         112
                                                                                  Power Supply              Memory           110
                          130
                                       Further Mouthguard/          113
                                      Secondary Transmitter
                                          Hardware Sets                            Processor                Comms
                                                                                 Secondary Body-Worn Transmitter
                                                                                                     140
                            121                                    122                         141
                                  Power Supply            Memory
              120
                                    Processor             Comms
                                  123               124                                                  Display Screen
                                   Impact Data Processing System
                                                                                                 Exemplary Client Device
                                                             FIG. 1

                              2/12
<removed-date>
                                     200
                    201        202
<removed-apn>
                                                 203
                                           204
              205
                          FIG. 2A

                                   3/12
<removed-date>
                                                200
                    205
                          206
              205
<removed-apn>
                            207
                                          201         202   203
                          204
                                FIG. 2B

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/12

                       5/12
<removed-date>
                              300
              301
<removed-apn>
              302
              303
              304
                    FIG. 3A

                         6/12
<removed-date>
                                310
              311
<removed-apn>    312
              313
              314
              315
                    FIG. 3B

                      7/12
<removed-date>
                              320
              321
<removed-apn>
              322
              323
                    FIG. 3C

                       8/12
<removed-date>
                              330
              331
<removed-apn>
              332
              333
              334
                    FIG. 3D

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                     9/12
FIG. 4A

     <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                10/12
FIG. 4B

          <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 5A
                                     11/12
                              500

                <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
FIG. 5B
                                           12/12
          510

