                                            ABSTRACT
         Systems and methods of photoaltering a region of a material using a pulsed laser
beam. The method includes scanning the pulsed laser beam in a first portion of the region
with a first pattern, scanning the pulsed laser beam in a second portion of the region with a
second pattern, and separating a flap of the material at the region. The system includes a
laser, a controller selecting at least first and second patterns, and a scanner operable in
response to the controller. The first pattern has a first maximum acceleration associated
with the second portion, and the second pattern has a second maximum acceleration
associated with the second portion. The second maximum acceleration is less than the first
maximum acceleration. The scanner scans the pulsed laser beam from the laser in the first
portion with the first pattern and in the second portion with the second pattern.
FIG. 4

                                                  4/13
                                           CNJ
                                                                444.,                                              .
                                                                                                                  .44~
                                                                   *     -    : :            ,                    .:
                                                                        :.                 4 .. . - .     . 4     .:
                                                                                                                  ..
                                                                                 4. - 44~.. . -~ * *.       *.    .
       4 .~4 4. ''
      4'4.4..~4;.4 .'.'..
                         .4
          .' - *~. . . *.~ . ,.:
                                             ,'
                                                           :  :  .
                                                                     : .
                                                                           *:   4. .
                                                                               .: .           44 '~'4~    *4,. ~4'4
                                    .4 . .4..4:..                 4. .            4, , .'      4 4,4-.      .       .
                                       4 .    4. 4
                                                     '4                                  4 4           4   . ' 4
:.:Unr4.'::.'p.                                     .~.PJ4
              . 4.    4' . 4
                                                                                                                          * 44 ±44:44
                              44.4'.444
                                                                              P                                     *."~~'~.±":cc
                                                                                                                 .:±.
       44 ~                .'  VA;~~M~yrct'j.'"'t'4.~.'
  *.............,..                     ;y~.I$2~j ;wI4c.4.c%~?'..':.'.~:~~                                             ~fln':.V;;
                                                                                                                         S .444.      II
      V.'.    V.e\tX'.                                  ..   ct *'    ~                    ;.,..:$.7 j.,
                                      4 '~~4*,4                                     4 ,'    4.                 4.
               4                                                                 4
                                         *4~' '.*                                                                *4,    44'444
    4                 4   4                 .4                                                                               4
                4%
                    :~:.
                 4.* '~
                           ~:
                              ' ' ''
                  4, 44 44 4'4 ~'4 ~
                                         :         ~.             * '.'     4 44' 4        ~4        '' , 4,
                                                                                                                  ~   44
                4 ~, 4'
                                .'~. :: *
                                                     . 4                                                       .

                    SYSTEM FOR SCANNING A PULSED LASER BEAM
                   CROSS-REFERENCES TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]          This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 13/792,758, filed
March 11, 2013 entitled "System and Method for Scanning a Pulsed Laser Beam," which is a
continuation-in-part of U.S. Patent Application Serial No. 11/968,589, filed Jan. 2, 2008, entitled
"System and Method for Scanning a Pulsed Laser Beam," the contents of which are
incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. Full Paris Convention priority is hereby
expressly reserved.
                                      FIELD OF THE INVENTION
[0002]          The field of the present invention generally relates to laser scanners and more
particularly, to systems and methods for scanning pulsed laser beams.
                                          BACKGROUND
[0003]          Pulsed laser beams include bursts or pulses of light, as implied by name, and have
been used for photoalteration of materials, both inorganic and organic alike. Pulsed lasers, such
as non-ultraviolet, ultra-short pulsed lasers with pulse durations measured in the nanoseconds to
femtoseconds range, are often used in ophthalmic surgical procedures. Typically, a pulsed laser
beam is focused onto a desired area of the material, such as the cornea, the capsular bag, or the
lens of the eye, to photoalter the material in this area and, in some instances, the associated
peripheral area. Examples of photoalteration of the material include, but are not necessarily
limited to, chemical and physical alterations, chemical and physical breakdown, disintegration,
ablation, photodisruption, vaporization, a the like.
                                                    1

 [0004]           One example of photoalteration using pulsed laser beams is the photodisruption
(e.g., via laser induced optical breakdown) of a material. Localized photodisruptions can be
placed at or below the surface of the material to produce high-precision material processing. For
example, a micro-optics scanning system may be used to scan the pulsed laser beams to produce
an incision in the material and to create a flap therefrom, The term "scan" or "scanning" refers
to the movement of the focal point of a pulsed laser beam along a desired path. To create a flap
of the material, the pulsed laser beam is typically scanned along a pre-determined region (e.g.,
within the material) in either a spiral pattern or a raster pattern. In general, these patterns are
mechanically simple to implement (e.g., continuous) and to control for a given scan rate and for
a desired focal point separation of the pulsed laser beam. These patterns are also generally
efficient.
[0005]           Despite these advantages, the spiral or raster pattern may impose limits on the
creation of a flap (e.g., due to mechanical restrictions on the micro-optic based scanning system
or the like). In general, faster scan rates are desirable, but existing laser scanning equipment may
lag commanded laser positions along one axis or along both axes, thus, shortening or
compressing one or more raster scan lines along another axis. For example, a circular scan area
using a raster pattern may become elliptical with faster scan rates. In addition, faster scan rates
may result in greater accelerations of the mass associated with the scanning system. These
greater accelerations in turn complicate control accuracy. For example, greater accelerations
have been observed while scanning the central region of a spiral pattern (e.g., as the spiral
tightens). Greater accelerations have also been observed while scanning the periphery of a raster
pattern (e.g., as the scanning changes direction with the raster pattern).
[0006]           As such, systems and methods for scanning a pulsed laser beam that improve
scanning control are desirable. More particularly, systems and methods for scanning a pulsed
laser beam that reduce accelerations during scanning are desired. There is also a need for
systems and methods for creating a flap with a pulsed laser beam operating at increased pulse
                                                    2

repetition rates while maintaining or reducing the acceleration associated with scanning the
pulsed laser beam.
[00071          Moreover, during the well-known LASIK (Laser-Assisted in Situ Keratomileusis)
procedure, a pulsed laser is used to create a flap in the cornea to expose the corneal stroma,
which is then photoablated with an excimer laser to correct vision problems such as myopia,
hyperopia, astigmatism, and the like. Scanning an ultra-short wavelength pulsed laser beam over
the cornea of a patient's eye creates contiguous small bubbles that expand to form a resection
plane for the flap. The small gas bubbles are released when the corneal flap is lifted, so they do
not interfere with the excimer laser's photoablation process. But, sometimes the gas bubbles
diffuse through and accumulate, forming an opaque bubble layer ("OBL") in the corneal flap
bed. The OBL does not release when the flap is lifted, and a result, may interfere with flap
creation and/or with the excimer laser's iris recognition capabilities, which are generally used for
proper alignment and positioning of the laser beam. Since the OBL typically remains in the
corneal flap bed for up to ten or more minutes, iris recognition errors may be as high as 10%,
which may consequently affect the precision, accuracy, and effectiveness of the laser procedure
and the surgical outcome. Therefore, it is also desirable to provide systems and methods for
reducing and/or eliminating the formation of opaque bubble layers in the corneal flap bed.
                                SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0008]           Embodiments of the present invention are directed towards photoaltering a
material using a pulsed laser beam. In one embodiment, a method of photoaltering a region of a
material using a pulsed laser beam is provided. The method includes scanning the pulsed laser
beam in a first portion of the region with a first pattern, scanning the pulsed laser beam in a
second portion of the region with a second pattern, and separating a flap of the material at the
region. The first pattern has a first maximum acceleration associated with the region, and the
second pattern has a second maximum acceleration less than the first maximum acceleration.
                                                   3

[00091           In another embodiment, a system for photoaltering a region of the material is
provided. The system includes a laser configured to produce a pulsed laser beam, a controller
configured to select at least a first pattern and a second pattern, and a scanner coupled to the
controller. The first pattern has a first maximum acceleration associated with the second portion,
and the second pattern has a second maximum acceleration associated with the second portion.
The second maximum acceleration is less than the first maximum acceleration. The scanner is
operable to scan the pulsed laser beam in a first portion of the region with the first pattern, and
scan the pulsed laser beam in a second portion of the region with the second pattern.
[0010]           In yet another embodiment, a system and method for photoaltering a region of the
material, such as the cornea, are provided so as to reduce and/or eliminate the opaque bubble
layer (OBL) in the corneal flap bed.
[0011]           This summary and the following detailed description are merely exemplary,
illustrative, and explanatory, and are not intended to limit, but to provide further explanation of
the invention as claimed. Additional desirable features, advantages, and characteristics of the
present invention will be set forth in the detailed descriptions, the claims, and the accompanying
drawings that follow, and in part, will be apparent from the descriptions, or may be teamed by
practicing various embodiments of the invention. All additional systems, methods, features and
advantages are intended to be included within the scope of the invention, and to be protected by
the accompanying claims and their equivalents.
                          BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS
 [0012]          In the drawings, wherein like reference numerals refer to similar components:
         FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a laser scanner system according to one embodiment of the
present invention;
         FIG. 2 is a top view of a first compound scan pattern according to one embodiment;
         FIG. 3 is a top view of a second compound scan pattern according to another
embodiment;
                                                    4

         FIG. 4 is a top view of a third compound scan pattern according to another embodiment;
         FIG. 5 is a top view of a fourth compound scan pattern according to another embodiment;
         FIG. 6 is a top view of a fifth compound scan pattern according to another embodiment;
         FIG. 7 is a top view of a sixth compound scan pattern according to another embodiment;
         FIG. 8 is a top view of a hypotrochoid scan pattern according to another embodiment;
         FIGS. 9(a) and 9(b) show two exemplary results of scanning in some ophthalmic
surgeries;
         FIGS. 10(a) through10 (d) show a top view of a seventh compound scan pattern
according to another embodiment;
         FIG. 11 is an exemplary top view of the seventh compound scan pattern according to
another embodiment.
         FIG. 12 is a graph of acceleration versus distance for a compound scan pattern according
to one embodiment; and
         FIG. 13 is a flow diagram of a method for photoatering a material according to one
embodiment.
                                    DETAILED DESCRIPTION
 [0013]          This disclosure is directed to all applicable variations, changes, and modifications
known to those skilled in the art. As such, the following detailed description is merely
illustrative and exemplary in nature, and is neither intended to limit the embodiments of the
subject matter, nor the uses of those embodiments. The terms "exemplary" and "illustrative"
mean "serving as an example, an instance, or an illustration." Any implementation described as
exemplary or illustrative is not meant to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other
implementations. Nor is there any intent to be bound by any expressed or implied theory
presented in the background, summary, or the detailed description.
 [00141          Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for scanning
a pulsed laser beam that reduce acceleration affects associated therewith, and/or that reduce or
                                                     5

eliminate the formation of an opaque bubble layer ("OBL") in a corneal flap bed, which is
associated with scanning a pulsed laser beam in certain ophthalmic applications. Photoalteration
of a material may be accomplished using a pulsed laser beam that is directed (e.g., via a scanner)
at a desired region of the material (e.g., the cornea, the capsular bag, or the lens of a patient's eye
in certain ophthalmic applications). For example, a pulsed laser beam may be controlled to scan
a desired region in the material to produce a flap. To impart at least a portion of this control,
software, firmware, or the like, can be used to command the actions and placement of the
scanner via a motion control system, such as a closed-loop proportional integral derivative (PID)
control system. In one embodiment, these systems and methods reduce accelerations, as well as
the acceleration effects associated with scanning a conventional pattern (e.g., a spiral pattern or a
raster pattern), while maintaining a desired scan rate and focal point spatial separation of the
pulsed laser beam. The term "acceleration" is defined herein to be the acceleration of a mass
associated with a scanning element or a scanning system including, but not necessarily limited
to, a laser, a laser scanner, scanning mirrors, a scanning chassis, focusing optics, and any
combination thereof. Alternatively, these systems and methods limit the accelerations associated
with scanning the conventional pattern while permitting a faster scan rate of the pulsed laser
beam.
[0015]            In another embodiment, blanking is incorporated with the scanning to improve
scanning accuracies. The term "blanking" is defined herein to be a prevention of a laser pulse
transmission (e.g., via shuttering of the pulsed laser beam). For example, when using a
substantially constant laser pulse rate (e.g., for the pulsed laser beam), blanking is used to avoid
altering this laser pulse rate and limit overlap of scanned pulse spots. Additionally, blanking
may be used to slow the energy deposition rate into the material. In embodiments incorporating
blanking, the pulsed laser beam is prevented from scanning over a previous scan (e.g., one or
more spots associated with one or more focal points of a pulsed laser beam).
                                                    6

 [00161          In another embodiment used in ophthalmic applications, these systems and
methods may reduce and/or eliminate the formation of an opaque bubble layer in the corneal flap
bed of a patient's eye.
 [00171         Referring to the drawings, FIG. 1 shows a system 10 for photoaltering a material
 12. The system 10 includes, but is not necessarily limited to, a laser 14 capable of generating a
pulsed laser beam 18, an energy control module 16 for varying the pulse energy of the pulsed
laser beam 18, a scanner 20, a controller 22, and focusing optics 28 for directing the pulsed laser
beam 18 from the laser 14 on or within the material 12. The controller 22, such as a processor
operating suitable control software, is operatively coupled with the scanner 20, the focusing
optics 28, and the energy control unit 16 to direct a focal point 30 of the pulsed laser beam along
a scan pattern on or in the material 12. In this embodiment, the system 10 further includes a
beam splitter 26 and a detector 24 coupled to the controller 22 for a feedback control mechanism
of the pulsed laser beam 18. Other feedback methods may also be used, including but not
necessarily limited to position encoder on the scanner 20 or the like.
[00181          The scanner 20 moves the focal point of the pulsed laser beam 18 in increments
through a desired scan pattern as controlled by the controller 22. The step rate at which the focal
point is moved is referred to herein as the scan rate. For example, the scanner 20 can operate at
scan rates between about 10 kHz and about 400 kHz, or at any other desired scan rate. In one
embodiment, the scanner 20 generally moves the focal point of the pulsed laser beam 18 through
the desired scan pattern at a substantially constant scan rate while maintaining a substantially
constant separation between adjacent focal points of the pulsed laser beam 18. For a given scan
pattern or combination of scan patterns (e.g., a compound scan pattern), the time for completing
the scan pattern is inversely proportional to the scan rate. Further details of laser scanners are
known in the art, such as described, for example, in U.S. Patent No. 5,549,632, the entire
disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.
                                                  7

 [00191          To provide the pulsed laser beam, a chirped pulse laser amplification system, such
 as that described in U.S. Pat. No. RE37,585, may be used for photoalteration. U.S. Pat. No.
 7,351,241 also describes other methods of photoalteration. Other devices or systems may also be
used to generate pulsed laser beams. For example, non-ultraviolet (UV), ultrashort pulsed laser
technology can produce pulsed laser beams having pulse durations measured in femtoseconds.
 Some of the non-UV, ultrashort pulsed laser technology may be used in ophthalmic applications.
For example, U.S. Pat. No. 5,993,438 discloses a device for performing ophthalmic surgical
procedures to effect high-accuracy corrections of optical aberrations. U.S. Patent No. 5,993,438
discloses an intrastromal photodisruption technique for reshaping the cornea using a non-UV,
ultrashort (e.g., femtosecond pulse duration), pulsed laser beam that propagates through corneal
tissue and is focused at a point below the surface of the cornea to photodisrupt stromal tissue at
the focal point.
 [0020]          Although the system 10 may be used to photoalter a variety of materials (e.g.,
organic, inorganic, or a combination thereof), the system 10 is suitable for ophthalmic
applications in one embodiment. In this case, the focusing optics 28 direct the pulsed laser beam
 18 toward an eye (e.g., onto or into a cornea) for plasma mediated (e.g., non-UV) photoablation
of superficial tissue, or into the stroma of the cornea for intrastromal photodisruption of tissue.
In this embodiment, the system 10 may also include a lens (not shown) to change the shape (e.g.,
flatten or curve) of the cornea prior to scanning the pulsed laser beam 18 toward the eye. The
system 10 is capable of generating the pulsed laser beam 18 with physical characteristics similar
to those of the laser beams generated by a laser system disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4,764,930, U.S.
Pat. No. 5,993,438, or the like.
 [0021]          For example, the ophthalmic laser system 10 can produce an ultra-short pulsed
laser beam for use as an incising laser beam. This pulsed laser beam preferably has laser pulses
with durations as long as a few nanoseconds or as short as a few femtoseconds. For intrastromal
photodisruption of the tissue, the pulsed laser beam 18 has a wavelength that permits the pulsed
                                                   8

laser beam 18 to pass through the cornea without absorption by the corneal tissue. The
wavelength of the pulsed laser beam 18 is generally in the range of about 3 pm to about 1.9 nm,
preferably between about 400 nm to about 3000 nm, and the irradiance of the pulsed laser beam
 18 for accomplishing photodisruption of stromal tissues at the focal point is typically greater than
the threshold for optical breakdown of the tissue. Although a non-UV, ultrashort pulsed laser
beam is described in this embodiment, the pulsed laser beam 18 may have other pulse durations
and different wavelengths in other embodiments.
[0022]          For ophthalmic applications, the scanner 20 may utilize a pair of scanning mirrors
or other optics (not shown) to angularly deflect and scan the pulsed laser beam 18. For example,
scanning mirrors driven by galvanometers may be employed, each scanning the pulsed laser
beam 18 along one of two orthogonal axes. A focusing objective (not shown), whether one lens
or several lenses, images the pulsed laser beam onto a focal plane of the system 10. The focal
point of the pulsed laser beam 18 may thus be scanned in two dimensions (e.g., the x-axis and
the y-axis) within the focal plane of the system 10. Scanning along the third dimension, i.e.,
moving the focal plane along an optical axis (e.g., the z-axis), may be achieved by moving the
focusing objective, or one or more lenses within the focusing objective, along the optical axis. In
preparing a corneal bed for flap separation, for example, a circular area may be scanned using a
scan pattern driven by the scanning mirrors. In another embodiment, a dome-shaped area may
be scanned using a three-dimension movement (e.g., along the x-, y-, and z-axes) driven by the
scanning mirrors. The pulsed laser beam 18 photoalters the stromal tissue by scanning the focal
point of the pulsed laser beam 18 in a pattern of spots (e.g., based on the scan pattern), the
distribution of which is determined by the pulse frequency, the scan rate, and the amount of scan
line separation. Generally, higher scan rates, enable shorter procedure times by increasing the
rate at which corneal tissue can be photoaltered. For example, the scan rates may be selected
from a range between about 1 kHz and about 1 GHz with a pulse width in a range between about
                                                  9

300 picoseconds and about 10 femtoseconds, although other scan rates and pulse widths may be
used.
[0023]          The system 10 may additionally acquire detailed information about optical
aberrations to be corrected, at least in part, using the system 10. Examples of such detailed
information include, but are not necessarily limited to, the extent of the desired correction, and
the location in the cornea of the eye where the correction can be made most effectively. The
refractive power of the cornea may be used to indicate corrections. Wavefront analysis
techniques, made possible by devices such as a Hartmann-Shack type sensor (not shown), can be
used to generate maps of corneal refractive power. Diagnostic and measurement systems that
use a Shack-Hartmann wavefront sensor to quantify aberrations throughout the entire optical
system of a patient's eye include the Abbott Wavescan WaveFrontTM System, and the Abbott
iDesignTM Advanced WaveScan Studio aberrometer. Exemplary Shack-Hartmann type
wavefront diagnostic systems are described in commonly-owned U.S. Pat. No. 7,931,271, U.S.
Pat. No. 7,931,374, U.S. Pat. No. 8,126,246, which are incorporated here by reference. Other
wavefront analysis techniques and sensors may also be used, such as Tscherning based
aberrometry, ray tracing type wavefront analysis (e.g., Tracey VFA), and spatial skiametry (e.g.,
Nidek OPD-Scan). The maps of corneal refractive power, or similar refractive power
information provided by other means, such as corneal topography or the like, can then be used to
identify and locate the optical aberrations of a cornea that require correction.
[0024]          When the laser 14 is activated, the focal spot 30 of the pulsed laser beam 18 is
selectively moved (e.g., via the scanner 20) along a beam path to photoalter stromal tissue, also
referred to herein as scanning. For example, the focal spot 30 of the pulsed laser beam 18 is
selectively directed along a predetermined length of the beam path in one reference area. The
pulsed laser beam 18 is then redirected through another reference area, and the process of
photoalteration is repeated. The sequence for directing the pulsed laser beam 18 through
individually selected reference areas can be varied, and the extent of stromal tissue
                                                   10

photoalteration while the incising laser beam is so directed, can be varied. Specifically, as
indicated above, the amount of photoalteration can be based on the refractive power map. On the
other hand, the sequence of reference areas that is followed during a customized procedure will
depend on the particular objectives of the procedure.
[00251           Scanning may be applied using one or more scan patterns to one or more
combinations of these reference areas. One example of an ophthalmic scanning application is a
laser in-situ keratectomy (LASIK) type procedure where a flap is cut from the cornea to establish
extracorporeal access to the tissue that is to be photoaltered. The flap may be created using one
or more scan patterns of pulsed laser beams. To create the corneal flap, a sidecut is created
around a desired perimeter of the flap such that the ends of the sidecut terminate, without
intersection, to leave an uncut segment. This uncut segment serves as a hinge for the flap. The
flap is separated from the underlying stromal tissue by scanning the laser focal point across a
resection bed, the perimeter of which is approximately defined by and slightly greater than the
sidecut. Once this access has been achieved, photoalteration is completed, and the residual
fragments of the photoaltered tissue are removed from the cornea. Additionally, the pulsed laser
beams may be scanned to customize the incisions, such as for shaped incisions with advanced
edge profiles (e.g., Intralase-enabled keratoplasty (IEK)). In another embodiment, intrastromal
tissue may be photo altered by the system 10 so as to create an isolated lenticle of intrastromal
tissue. The lenticle of tissue can then be removed from the cornea to alter the healed curvature
of the cornea and change the corresponding refractive properties.
[00261           Generally, to create a flap in ophthalmic applications, the pulsed laser beam 18 is
scanned at a substantially constant scan rate while maintaining a substantially constant separation
between adjacent focal points of the pulsed laser beam 18. In one embodiment, the controller 22
directs the scanner 20 to scan the pulsed laser beam 18 along a compound scan pattern that
includes two or more scan patterns for the desired region of photoalteration (e.g., a resection
bed). These scan patterns are preferably selected (e.g., by the controller 22) such that high
                                                   11

acceleration regions normally associated with a first scan pattern are substituted by a second scan
pattern. The second scan pattern is selected such that scanning the second scan pattern in the
high acceleration region (i.e., associated with the first scan pattern) is accomplished with a lower
acceleration (e.g., less than a maximum acceleration associated scanning the high acceleration
region), while maintaining a substantially constant scan rate of the pulsed laser beam 18.
Although, the compound scan pattern is described with two different scan patterns, multiple scan
patterns may be used.
[00271          Additionally, the system 10 may use blanking with portions of one or more of
scan patterns to reduce repetitious scans of the same spot. While scanning a pulsed laser beam
normally produces a substantially continuous train of laser pulses, blanking may be incorporated
to selectively prevent one or more of the pulses of the pulsed laser beam from being scanned
over a prior scan spot. For example, while scanning a train of pulses, the relative position of the
scanner 20 (e.g., relative scanning mirror(s) position) associated with each scan spot may be
recorded for a particular procedure, timely compared with subsequent laser pulses. Subsequent
laser pulses that might overlap with prior scan spots may then be blanked. In one embodiment,
the relative position of the scanner 20 may be predicted for each scan spot based on a
substantially constant laser pulse rate for a selected scan pattern and thus, blanking can be pre
determined for subsequent laser pulses.
[0028]          Some examples of compound scan patterns include a spiral scan pattern having a
central area with a traveling circular scan pattern, a sinusoidal scan pattern, a progressive oval
scan pattern, a spiral scan pattern having a raster scan pattern, or the like. FIG. 2 is a top view of
a first compound scan pattern 40 according to one embodiment. The first compound scan pattern
40 includes a spiral scan pattern 42 and a traveling circular scan pattern 43. The traveling
circular scan pattern 43 can be produced by scanning multiple circles while traversing in a linear
direction after substantially completing each full circle. A first portion 46 of the traveling
circular scan pattern 43 overlaps the spiral scan pattern 42, and a second portion 44 of the
                                                   12

traveling circular scan pattern 43 occupies a central region of the first compound scan pattern 40
(e.g., a substantially circular central area). FIG. 3 is a top view of a second compound scan
pattern 48 according to another embodiment. The second compound scan pattern 48 includes the
spiral scan pattern 42 and the second portion 44 of the traveling circular scan pattern 43
occupying a central region (e.g., a substantially circular central area) of the second compound
scan pattern 48, both shown in FIG. 2, but omits (e.g., via blanking) the first portion 46 of the
traveling circular scan pattern 43. The traveling circular scan pattern 43 has a substantially
constant acceleration associated with the circular shape.
[0029]           FIG. 4 is a top view of a third compound scan pattern 50 according to another
embodiment. The third compound scan pattern 50 includes the spiral scan pattern 42 shown in
FIG. 2 and a sinusoidal scan pattern 53. For simplicity of illustration, the sinusoidal scan pattern
53 travels linearly along the horizontal axis and is shown in a compressed configuration (e.g.,
compressed along the horizontal axis) having a relatively high frequency appearance but may be
elongated or further compressed for a selected spot separation. A first portion 54 of the
sinusoidal scan pattern 53 overlaps the spiral scan pattern 42, and a second portion 52 of the
sinusoidal scan pattern 53 occupies a central region (e.g., a substantially circular central area) of
the third compound scan pattern 50 (e.g., a substantially circular central area). The sinusoidal
scan pattern 53 is scanned such that the deflections of the sinusoidal scan pattern 53 (e.g., the
crests of a sine wave) are scanned outside of the central region. In this embodiment, the second
portion 52 of the sinusoidal scan pattern 53 (occupying the central region) has a substantially
constant acceleration associated with the substantially linear segments of the sine wave. FIG. 5
is a top view of a fourth compound scan pattern 56 according to another embodiment. The
fourth compound scan pattern 56 includes the spiral scan pattern 42 and the second portion 52 of
the sinusoidal scan pattern 53 occupying a central region (e.g., a substantially circular central
area) of the fourth compound scan pattern 56, both shown in FIG. 4, but omits (e.g., via
blanking) the first portion 54 of the sinusoidal scan pattern 53.
                                                   13

 [00301         FIG. 6 is a top view of a fifth compound scan pattern 58 according to another
embodiment. The fifth compound scan pattern 58 includes the spiral scan pattern 42 shown in
FIG. 2 and a progressive oval scan pattern 63 occupying a central region of the fifth compound
scan pattern 58. The progressive oval scan pattern 63 has a self-overlapping portion 62 and a
non-overlapping portion 60. The progressive oval scan pattern 63 is scanned such that an oval
shape (having substantially fixed and spaced apart opposing curved apexes) scan progressively
contracts or progressively expands with each completed pass of the oval shape. The curved
apexes of the oval shape are associated with lower accelerations. FIG. 7 is a top view of a sixth
compound scan pattern 64 according to another embodiment. The sixth compound scan pattern
64 includes the spiral scan pattern 42 and the non-overlapping portion 60 of the progressive oval
scan pattern 63, both shown in FIG. 6, but omits the self-overlapping portion 62 (e.g., via
blanking).
[0031]          FIG. 8 is a top view of a hypotrochoid scan pattern 66 according to another
embodiment. Referring to FIGS. 2-8, the hypotrochoid pattern 66 can be incorporated with a
spiral scan pattern, such as the spiral scan pattern 42, to produce another compound scan pattern.
In one embodiment, the hypotrochoid scan pattern is scanned such that a hypotrochoid shape
progressively contracts or progressively expands with each pass of the hypotrochoid shape. The
hypotrochoid scan pattern 66 has a central region 68 that may be used when scanning the high
acceleration region of the spiral scan pattern (e.g., such as associated with the central regions 44,
52, and 60). For example, the hypotrochoid scan pattern 66 may be scanned over a high
acceleration region such that the central region 68 overlays the high acceleration region.
Blanking may also be used to omit scanning portions of the hypotrochoid scan pattern 66 over
the spiral scan pattern. Additionally, blanking can be used to avoid double scanning rhomboid
shaped self-overlapping regions 69 within the hypotrochoid pattern 66. The curved apexes of the
hypotrochoid shape are associated with lower accelerations.
                                                   14

[00321           During ophthalmic surgery, the compound scan patterns in FIGS. 2-8 may form
an accumulation of gas bubbles or an OBL 150 in the bed of the corneal flap, as shown in FIG.
9(a), especially when the first or second pattern is a spiral pattern or a traveling circular scan
pattern with the scan starting from the center and progressing outward. When the scan starts
from the outer edge (e.g., the periphery of the region) and progresses inward (e.g., toward the
center of the region), however, there is often no OBL, as shown in FIG. 9(b). In the periphery
to-inward spiral pattern scanning of FIG. 9(b), the round trip time of the circle at the outer edge,
e.g., 8-9 mm in circumference, is much longer than that of the circle near the center. Therefore,
the ablation gas has sufficient time to either cool down or to migrate away before the next circle
of the spiral pattern. As such, no OBL is formed.
[00331          FIGS. 10(a) through 10(d) illustrate a top view of a seventh compound scan
pattern 100 according to another embodiment. The compound scan pattern 100 includes the
spiral scan pattern 110 of FIG. 10(a) and a raster scan pattern 130 of FIG. 10(b) occupying a
central region 120 of the compound scan pattern 100. A first portion 131 of the raster scan
pattern 130 overlaps with the spiral scan pattern 110, and a second portion 132 of the raster scan
pattern 130 occupies the central region 120 of the compound scan pattern 100 (e.g., a
substantially circular central area), as shown in FIG. 10(d). In this embodiment, the second
portion 132 of the raster scan pattern 130 (occupying the central region) has a substantially
constant acceleration. The spiral scan pattern 110 serves as a "pocket" for the raster scan,
buffering the gas upon the start of the scanning of the raster scan pattern 110. A side cut 140,
performed after the spiral scan pattern 110 and the raster scan pattern 130, forms the corneal flap.
FIG. 10(d) shows the top view of the superposition of the spiral scan pattern 110, the raster scan
pattern 130, and the side cut 140. In an exemplary embodiment, the spiral scan pattern 110 has
an outer diameter of about 8.5 mm, and an inner diameter of about 7mm. The raster scan pattern
130 has a diameter of about 7.1mm. As such, there is about a 50 ptm to 100 jam horizontal
overlap 131 between the spiral scan pattern 110 and the raster scan pattern 130. The side cut 140
                                                  15

has a diameter of about 8.4mm. In this exemplary embodiment, as FIG. 11 shows, with an
exemplary 150 kHz laser, the roundtrip time of the spiral scan at the start of the spiral scan
pattern 110 is about 36ms. The roundtrip time of the approximately 1mm horizontal length at
the start of the raster scan pattern 130 (e.g. at the bottom of the raster scan pattern 130) is only
about 1.33ms. Hence, the time difference, e.g., between 36ms and 1.33ms, is long enough to
prevent the formation of the OBL.
 10034]          Alternatively, the compound scan pattern 100, having the spiral scan pattern 110
and a raster scan pattern 130, may also be combined with the use of deep stromal pockets below
the hinge of the flap. For the raster scan pattern 130, the raster scanning may also be sinusoidal
as the scanning travels along the horizontal axis.
 [0035]          FIG. 12 is a plot 70 of acceleration versus distance for a compound scan pattern
illustrating a reduction in acceleration for a central region of the compound scan pattern
according to one embodiment. The compound scan pattern includes a first scan pattern and a
second scan pattern. Referring to FIGS. 2-12, the compound scan pattern of this embodiment
can be any one of the compound scan patterns 40, 48, 50, 56, 58, 64, and 100 or other compound
scan patterns based on a combination of a spiral scan pattern and a second scan pattern (e.g., the
hypotrochoid scan pattern 68 or the like). For example, the spiral scan pattern 42 or 110 is
located in the periphery of the compound scan pattern, and the second scan pattern is located in
the central region of the compound scan pattern, such as the central regions 44, 52, 60, and 120.
In this embodiment, the central region radially extends outward from the center of the spiral scan
pattern 42 to about 1000 pm.
 [0036]          The compound scan pattern is preferably scanned at a substantially constant scan
rate to simplify control, for example. As scanning (i.e., the spiral scan pattern) approaches the
central region, the acceleration generally increases. For example, as the spiral scanning becomes
narrower, the acceleration movement of the scanning element or scanning system significantly
increases. Scanning of the second scan pattern preferably initiates when the acceleration
                                                    16

associated with scanning the first scan pattern reaches a pre-determined maximum limit. This
limit may be selected based on one or more factors, such as mechanical limitations of the system
 10, an overall procedure time to complete the scanning (e.g., of the entire scan region), the scan
rate, historical data corresponding to a departure from a desired scanning quality, flap quality,
uniformity of scan spot separation or scan line separation, or the like.
 [0037]          In this embodiment, the second scan pattern begins at about 1000 pim from the
center of the scan region and has a substantially constant acceleration associated therewith. For
example, each of the traveling circular scan pattern 43, the sinusoidal scan pattern 53, and the
progressive oval scan pattern 63 has a maximum acceleration associated with scanning the
respective pattern in the central regions 44, 52, and 60, respectively, and these maximum
accelerations are each less than the maximum acceleration associated with scanning the spiral
scan pattern 42 in the same region. As best shown in FIG. 12, the second scan pattern has a
maximum acceleration (e.g., about 7.3 g), associated with the scanning thereof in a central region
of a compound scan pattern, that is substantially less than the maximum acceleration of the spiral
pattern (e.g., about 9.4 g) associated with scanning the spiral scan pattern beyond the central
region, or in the periphery, of the compound scan pattern (e.g., at about 1000 jim). The
maximum acceleration of the second scan pattern would also be substantially less than any
extrapolated maximum acceleration (not shown) associated with scanning of the spiral scan
pattern in the central region. The compound scan pattern thus reduces acceleration effects
normally associated with solely scanning a conventional spiral scan pattern.
100381           In effect, the first scan pattern (e.g., the spiral scan pattern 42) is scanned in a first
sub-region (e.g., the periphery of a desired scan region), and the second scan pattern (e.g., the
traveling circular scan pattern 44, the sinusoidal scan pattern 52, the progressive oval scan
pattern 60, or the like) is scanned in a second sub-region (e.g., a central area) of the desired scan
region. For example, the traveling circular scan pattern 44, sinusoidal scan pattern 52, or
progressive oval scan pattern is scanned in a substantially circular central region 44, 52, or 60,
                                                     17

respectively, that corresponds to the high acceleration region of the spiral pattern. While the
compound scan patterns 40, 48, 50, 56, 58, and 64 are illustrated as being scanned within a
substantially circular scan region, the scan region may take a variety of shapes and thus, other
compound scan patterns may be used to scan different shaped scan regions.
 [00391          For most of the compound scan patterns, the second scan pattern progresses from
a starting point at one location of the second sub-region to a completion point at a different
location of the second sub-region. An amount of time (e.g., a time lag) is expended to scan the
second sub-region with the second scan pattern. During this time, the material (e.g., the cornea)
may move, expand, stretch, or relax due to the biomechanical change induced in the material by
the pulsed laser beam 18. The greater the time expended to cease the progression of an incision
and finish the incision with the subsequent compound segment, the greater the effect associated
with this movement. For example, corneal tissue movement can manifest as a ridge at the
boundary of compound segments, which may adversely affect the optical imaging properties of
the treated corneal tissue. Uninterrupted compound patterns may be selectively applied to
alleviate this time lag.
f0040]           With uninterrupted compound patterns, the scanning progression is substantially
continuous from completing of the first sub-region scan to initiating the second sub-region scan.
In one embodiment, the scanning progression within one sub-region does not cease at any time
or at any part of the sub-region boundary. The maximum amount of time lag is on the order of
one turn-around of the pulsed laser beam (e.g., a few milliseconds), instead of a much longer
time lag associated with interrupted compound patterns. The hypotrochoid scan pattern 66 and
the progressive oval scan pattern 63 are examples of uninterrupted patterns, and the traveling
circular scan pattern 43 is an example of an interrupted pattern.
[0041]           By minimizing or eliminating higher accelerations of the scanning system,
scanning accuracy of the pulsed laser beam is increased. Additionally, vibrations that may be
associated with such higher accelerations can be reduced to improve reliability of the scanning
                                                  18

system. By minimizing or eliminating higher accelerations, the pulsed laser beam may operate
with higher laser repetition rates and thus, reduce procedure times (e.g., associated with creating
a desired scan region).
[0042]           In general, the temporal sequence of various sub-patterns is not related to the
overall limit on the maximum acceleration or procedure time. The temporal sequence is
preferably determined by other considerations. One example of such considerations is to provide
an exhaust for gas that may be formed during plasma created laser incisions (e.g., U.S. Pat. No.
6,676,653) for the sub-pattern that is first created in the temporal sequence.
[0043]           FIG. 13 is a flow diagram of a method 1300 for photoaltering a region of a
material using a pulsed laser beam according to one embodiment. The pulsed laser beam is
scanned in a first portion of the region with a first pattern, as indicated at 1305. The pulsed laser
beam is scanned in a second portion of the region with a second pattern, as indicated at 1310. A
flap of the material (e.g. the cornea of a patient's eye) is separated at the region, as indicated at
step 1315.
[0044]           In one embodiment, the first pattern has a maximum scan acceleration associated
with scanning the first pattern in the region, the second pattern has a maximum scan acceleration
associated with scanning the second pattern in the second portion, and the maximum scan
acceleration of the second pattern is less than the maximum scan acceleration of the first pattern.
In another embodiment, the first pattern has a maximum scan acceleration associated with
scanning the first pattern in the second portion, the maximum scan acceleration of the second
pattern is associated with scanning the second pattern in the second portion, and the maximum
scan acceleration of the second pattern is less than the maximum scan acceleration of the first
pattern.
[0045]           At least some of the second portion of the region may overlap with at least some
of the first portion of the region to form a third portion of the region. In this embodiment, the
pulsed laser beam is blanked while scanning the pulsed laser beam with the second pattern in the
                                                   19

third portion. The region may also have a periphery. In this embodiment, the pulsed laser beam
is scanned in the first portion in a spiral pattern beginning from the periphery of the region.
[0046]           The pulsed laser beam may be scanned in an uninterrupted compound pattern.
Referring to FIGS. 2-13, the pulsed laser beam may be scanned in the second portion in the
traveling circular scan pattern 43, the sinusoidal scan pattern 53, the progressive oval scan
pattern 63, or the raster scan pattern 130, for example. Additionally, the pulsed laser beam may
be blanked when the traveling circular pattern 43 overlaps the spiral scan pattern 42, when the
sinusoidal scan pattern 53 overlaps the spiral scan pattern 42, when the progressive oval scan
pattern 63 overlaps itself, or when the raster scan pattern 130 overlaps the spiral scan 110.
[0047]           Referring to FIGS. 1 and 13, the system 10 may be used to photoalter the material
using a pulsed laser beam 18. For example, the pulsed laser beam 18 may be scanned (with
either the first or second pattern) at a rate between about 1 kHz and about I GHz, with a pulsed
energy of about 800 nJ/pulse, with a pulse width of between about 300 picoseconds and about 10
femtoseconds, and/or at a wavelength between about 400 nm to about 3000 nm. Additionally,
the pulsed laser beam 18 may be scanned at a sub-surface depth of the material 12.
[0048]           Thus, systems and methods of photoaltering a material with a pulsed laser beam
are disclosed that reduce accelerations associated with scanning the pulsed laser beam.
[0049]           This disclosure is provided in an exemplary form with a certain degree of
particularity to enable a person skilled in the art to make and/or use embodiments of the
invention. The specific ordering and combination of the processes and structures described are
merely illustrative. Those skilled in the art will understand, however, that many modifications,
alternative constructions, changes, and variations can be made in the system, method, and parts
and steps thereof, without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Hence, the
disclosure is not intended to be limited to the specific examples and designs that are described.
Rather, it should be accorded the broadest scope consistent with the spirit, principles, and novel
features disclosed as generally expressed by the following claims and their equivalents.
                                                   20

Il:\kmh\Interwovn\NRPortbl\DCC\KMI 1\6159207 ldocx-l2 12/2017
[0050]                      The reference in this specification to any prior publication (or information
derived from it), or to any matter which is known, is not, and should not be taken as, an
acknowledgement or admission or any form of suggestion that prior publication (or
information derived from it) or known matter forms part of the common general
knowledge in the field of endeavour to which this specification relates.
[0051]                      Throughout this specification and the claims which follow, unless the context
requires otherwise, the word "comprise", and variations such as "comprises" or
"comprising", will be understood to imply the inclusion of a stated integer or step or group
of integers or steps but not the exclusion of any other integer or step or group of integers or
steps.
                                                              21

                                                CLAIMS
What is claimed is:
          1.     A method of photoaltering a region of a material using a pulsed laser beam, the
region having a first portion, a second portion, and a periphery, the method comprising the steps
of:
         scanning the pulsed laser beam in the first portion of the region with a first pattern, the
first pattern having a first maximum scan acceleration associated with the region, wherein the
first pattern comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam in a spiral pattern beginning from the
periphery of the region;
         scanning the pulsed laser beam in the second portion of the region with a second pattern,
the second pattern having a second maximum scan acceleration less than the first maximum scan
acceleration, wherein the second pattern comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam in a raster
pattern; and
         separating a flap of the material at the region.
         2.      The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the
first portion comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam with the first pattern having the first
maximum scan acceleration, the first maximum scan acceleration associated with the second
portion, and wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the second portion comprises
scanning the pulsed laser beam with the second pattern having the second maximum scan
acceleration, the second maximum scan acceleration associated with the second portion.
         3.      The method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the second portion of the region
overlaps at least some of the first portion of the region to form a third portion of the region, and
wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the second portion comprises blanking the
                                                   22

pulsed laser beam while scanning the pulsed laser beam with the second pattern in the third
portion.
         4.     The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the
first portion comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam at a rate between about 1 kHz and about 1
GHz, and wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the second portion comprises
scanning the pulsed laser beam at a rate between about 30 MHz and about I GHz.
         5.     The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the
first portion comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam with a pulse energy of about 800 nJ/pulse,
and wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the second portion comprises scanning
the pulsed laser beam with a pulse energy of about 800 nJ/pulse.
         6.     The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the
first portion comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam with a pulse width of between about 300
picoseconds and about 10 femtoseconds, and wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam
in the second portion comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam with a pulse width between
about 300 picoseconds and about 10 femtoseconds.
         7.     The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the
first portion comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam at a wavelength between about 400 nm to
about 3000 nm, and wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the second portion
comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam at a wavelength between about 400 nm to about 3000
nm.
         8.     The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the
second portion comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam in an uninterrupted compound pattern.
                                               23

         9.      The method of claim 8, wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in an
uninterrupted compound pattern comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam in a hypotrochoid
pattern.
         10.     The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the
second portion comprises combining scanning the pulsed laser beam with a sinusoidal pattern.
         11.     The method of claim 10, wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam with
a sinusoidal pattern comprises blanking the pulsed laser beam when scanning the sinusoidal
pattern overlaps the spiral pattern.
         12.     The method of claim 1, wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the
first portion comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam at a sub-surface depth of the material, and
wherein the step of scanning the pulsed laser beam in the second portion comprises scanning the
pulsed laser beam at the sub-surface depth of the material.
         13.     A system for photoaltering a region of a material, the region having a first and
second portions and a periphery, the system comprising:
         a laser configured to produce a pulsed laser beam;
         a controller configured to select at least a first pattern and a second pattern, the first
pattern having a first maximum acceleration associated with the second portion, the second
pattern having a second maximum acceleration associated with the second portion, the second
maximum acceleration being less than the first maximum acceleration; and
         a scanner operable in response to the controller to:
                 scan the pulsed laser beam in the first portion of the region with the first pattern,
         wherein the first pattern comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam in a spiral pattern
         beginning from the periphery of the region; and
                                                  24

                  scan the pulsed laser beam in the second portion of the region with the second
         pattern, wherein the second pattern comprises scanning the pulsed laser beam in a raster
         pattern.
         14.      The system of claim 13, wherein the region is a substantially circular region
having a central portion, and wherein the second portion comprises the central portion.
         15.      The system of claim 13, wherein the controller is further configured to select a
compound pattern comprising the first pattern and the second pattern.
         16.      The system of claim 13, wherein the pulsed laser beam has a pulse frequency
selected from a range of about 1 kHz to about I GHz.
         17.      The system of claim 13, wherein the first pulse energy is less than or equal to
about 800 nanoJoules.
         18.      The system of claim 13, wherein the material has a surface layer, and wherein the
laser is further configured to scan the pulsed laser beam along the region of the material to at
least partially separate the surface layer from the material, the region underlying the surface layer
of the material.
                                                  25

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
