    POLARITY SCHEME FOR PARALLEL-OPTICS DATA TRANSMISSION
                                               ABSTRACT
A fiber optic assembly includes first and second sets of ferrules. The first set of ferrules includes
a first ferrule supporting a first plurality of optical fibers including first and second groups of
optical fibers, a second ferrule supporting a second plurality of optical fibers including third and
fourth groups of optical fibers, and a third ferrule supporting a third plurality of optical fibers
including fifth and sixth groups of optical fibers. The second set of ferrules includes a fourth
ferrule and a fifth ferrule. The fourth ferrule supports optical fibers of the first, second, third,
and fourth groups of optical fibers, and the fifth ferrule supports optical fibers of the third,
fourth, fifth, and sixth groups of optical fibers.

    POLARITY SCHEME FOR PARALLEL-OPTICS DATA TRANSMISSION
                      CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001]     This application is a divisional application of AU2013345065, which claims priority
from U.S. Provisional Application Serial No. 61/727,869 filed November 19, 2012 and U.S.
Application Serial No. 13/751,232 filed on January 28, 2013, the contents of all three being
incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.
                                           BACKGROUND
[0002]     Aspects of the present disclosure relate generally to parallel-optics data transmission
and schemes for connecting optical fibers within a module and/or harness cable assembly.
[0003]     Harness assemblies, including harness cables and modules, may be used to arrange
optical fibers according to various schemes or mappings to facilitate data transmission via
parallel optics. Because a single signal may be broken down and parsed into separate optical
fibers for communication in parallel with one another, accuracy in the routing of the optical
fibers and transmission of the signal components allows for faster communications.
[0004]     A fiber optic assembly, in the form of a harness cable or a module, may be used on
opposite ends of trunk cables for reconfiguring optical pathways on either end of the trunk cables
for transmission via the trunk cables. Typically the fiber optic assemblies are labeled or
otherwise differentiated from one another, such as an "A" assembly and a "B" assembly, to
indicate how the optical fibers should be connected to the assemblies on either end of the trunk
cables. As such, an operator configuring a system configured for parallel optics data
communication must follow the "A" assembly routing scheme for one side of the trunk cables,
and follow the "B" assembly routing scheme for the other side of the trunk cables.
[0005]     However, in large data centers, orientations of large numbers of trunk cables routed
together may be difficult to identify, and ends of the trunk cables may be large distances apart
(e.g., on the order of a kilometer or more). As such attachment of the cable assemblies may
become cumbersome and error prone due to the differences between "A" and "B" assemblies.
                                                  -1-

Furthermore, from a manufacturing/supplier perspective, having a single part design and labeling
scheme for both "A" and "B" assemblies, allows for improved manufacturing and inventory
efficiencies. A need exists for an improved fiber-routing or polarity scheme and corresponding
cable assembly for connecting optical fibers for parallel-optics data transmission to allow an
operator to attach optical fibers to identical pairs of the cable assembly in the same port numbers,
regardless of on which side of the trunk cables the particular cable assembly is located.
[0005a] A reference herein to a patent document or other matter which is given as prior art is
not to be taken as an admission that that document or matter was known or that the information it
contains was part of the common general knowledge as at the priority date of any of the claims.
[0005b] Throughout the description and claims of the specification, the word "comprise" and
variations of the word, such as "comprising" and "comprises", is not intended to exclude other
additives, components, integers or steps.
[0005c] According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a fiber optic
assembly, comprising: a first set of ferrules, comprising: a first ferrule supporting a first plurality
of optical fibers, wherein the first plurality of optical fibers comprises first and second groups of
optical fibers; a second ferrule supporting a second plurality of optical fibers, wherein the second
plurality of optical fibers comprises third and fourth groups of optical fibers; and a third ferrule
supporting a third plurality of optical fibers, wherein the third plurality of optical fibers
comprises fifth and sixth groups of optical fibers; a second set of ferrules, comprising; a fourth
ferrule supporting optical fibers of the first, second, third, and fourth groups of optical fibers; and
a fifth ferrule supporting optical fibers of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth groups of optical
fibers.
[0005d] According to a further aspect of the present invention there is provided a fiber optic
system for parallel-optic data transmission, comprising: a first conversion module having a
housing and comprising: first, second, and third ferrules coupled to a first side of the housing;
and fourth and fifth ferrules coupled to a second side of the housing opposite to the first side of
the housing, wherein the first conversion module is configured to convert sets of optical fibers
supported by the first, second, and third ferrules into sets of optical fibers supported by the fourth
and fifth ferrules; a second conversion module identical to the first conversion module, wherein
                                                  -2-

the first and second conversion modules are interchangeable in the fiber optic system such that:
when the first and second conversion modules are aligned with one another but rotated 180
degrees relative to one another so that the second sides of the first and second conversion
modules face one another and the fourth ferrule of the first conversion module is opposite to the
fifth ferrule of the second conversion module, and when trunk cables connect the fourth ferrules
of the first and second conversion modules, without flipping fibers, and the fifth ferrules of the
first and second conversion modules, without flipping fibers, then optical pathways provided by
the optical fibers supported by the first, second, and third ferrules of the first conversion module
are connected to and arranged in the same order as optical pathways provided by the optical
fibers supported by the first, second, and third ferrules of the second conversion module,
respectively, whereby the two conversion modules may be used interchangeably on either side of
the trunk cables without additional componentry for reordering of the optical pathways.
                                               SUMMARY
[0006]     One embodiment relates to a fiber optic assembly, such as a conversion module or
harness cable assembly that includes a first set of ferrules and a second set of ferrules, as may be
associated with a fiber optic connector, port, or adapter. The first set of ferrules may include a
first ferrule supporting a first plurality of optical fibers, second ferrule supporting a second
plurality of optical fibers, and a third ferrule supporting a third plurality of optical fibers. The
first plurality of optical fibers may include first and second groups of optical fibers, the second
plurality of optical fibers includes third and fourth groups of optical fibers, and the third plurality
of optical fibers includes fifth and sixth groups of optical fibers. The second set of ferrules may
include a fourth ferrule and a fifth ferrule. The fourth ferrule may support optical fibers of the
first, second, third, and fourth groups of optical fibers, and the fifth ferrule supports optical fibers
of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth groups of optical fibers. Such an assembly may facilitate
conversion of three sets of transmit/receive optical pathways into two sets, for conveyance via
trunk cables, where an identical assembly is configured to facilitate reversing the conversion on
the far end of the trunk cables, without changing the order of individual pathways in the three
sets of transmit/receive optical pathways.
                                                  -3 -

[0007]     Another embodiment relates to a fiber optic system for parallel-optic data transmission,
which includes a first conversion module and a second conversion module. The first conversion
module has a housing and may include first, second, and third ferrules coupled to a first side of
the housing, and fourth and fifth ferrules coupled to a second side of the housing opposite to the
first side of the housing. The first conversion module may be configured to convert sets of
optical fibers supported by the first, second, and third ferrules into sets of optical fibers
supported by the fourth and fifth ferrules. The second conversion module identical to the first
conversion module, and the first and second conversion modules may be interchangeable in the
fiber optic system such that (1) when the first and second conversion modules are aligned with
one another but rotated 180-degrees relative to one another so that the second sides of the first
and second conversion modules face one another and the fourth ferrule of the first conversion
module is opposite to the fifth ferrule of the second conversion module, and (2) when trunk
cables connect the fourth ferrules of the first and second conversion modules, without flipping
fibers, and the fifth ferrules of the first and second conversion modules, without flipping fibers,
then optical pathways provided by the optical fibers supported by the first, second, and third
ferrules of the first conversion module are connected to and arranged in the same order as optical
pathways provided by the optical fibers supported by the first, second, and third ferrules of the
second conversion module, respectively. Accordingly, the two conversion modules may be used
interchangeably on either side of the trunk cables without additional componentry for reordering
of the optical pathways.
[0008]     Yet another embodiment relates to a ferrule for a fiber optic assembly. The ferrule may
include a first group of holes formed therein and a second group of holes formed therein. The
holes of the first group may be arranged in a line, and each hole of the first group may be equally
spaced from at least another hole of the first group. Also, the holes of the second group may be
arranged in a line, and each hole of the second group may be equally spaced from at least another
hole of the second group. The line formed by the holes of the first group may be co-linear with
the line formed by the holes of the second group, but the first group of holes may be spaced apart
from the second group of holes by a portion of the ferrule that is wider than the equal spacing
between holes of the holes of either the first or second groups of holes.
                                                   -4-

[0009]    Additional features and advantages are set forth in the Detailed Description that
follows, and in part will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the description or
recognized by practicing the embodiments as described in the written description and claims
hereof, as well as the appended drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general
description and the following Detailed Description are merely exemplary, and are intended to
provide an overview or framework to understand the nature and character of the claims.
                            BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[0006]    The accompanying Figures are included to provide a further understanding, and are
incorporated in and constitute a part of this specification. The drawings illustrate one or more
embodiments, and together with the Detailed Description serve to explain principles and
operations of the various embodiments. As such, the disclosure will become more fully
understood from the following Detailed Description, taken in conjunction with the
accompanying Figures, in which:
[0007]    FIG. 1 is schematic view a fiber optic conversion module according to an exemplary
embodiment.
[0008]    FIG. 2 is a schematic view of the fiber optic conversion module of FIG. 1 showing
optical fiber routing within the module.
[0009]    FIG. 3 is a perspective view of a module according to an exemplary embodiment.
[0010]    FIG. 4 is a schematic view of two identical fiber optic conversion modules, as shown in
FIG. 1, oriented to operate together in a parallel-optics system according to an exemplary
embodiment.
[0011]    FIG. 5 is a schematic view of the parallel-optics system of FIG. 4 showing optical fiber
routing within the system.
                                                 -5 -

[0012]     FIGS. 6A and 6B are schematic views of a parallel-optics system, similar to the system
of FIG. 4, and further including patch cords connecting to electronic hardware according to
another exemplary embodiment.
[0013]     FIG. 7 is a schematic view of a harness cable having a fiber-routing scheme similar to
that of the conversion module of FIG. 1 according to an exemplary embodiment.
[0014]     FIG. 8 is a perspective view of a harness cable according to an exemplary embodiment.
[0015]     FIG. 9 is a front view of a multi-fiber connector according to an exemplary
embodiment.
[0016]     FIG. 10 is a front view of a multi-fiber connector according to another exemplary
embodiment.
                                      DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[0017]     Before turning to the following Detailed Description and Figures, which illustrate
exemplary embodiments in detail, it should be understood that the present inventive and
innovative technology is not limited to the details or methodology set forth in the Detailed
Description or illustrated in the Figures. For example, as will be understood by those of ordinary
skill in the art, features and attributes associated with embodiments shown in one of the Figures
or described in the text relating to one of the embodiments may well be applied to other
embodiments shown in another of the Figures or described elsewhere in the text.
[0018]     Referring to FIG. 1, a module 110 has a housing 112 and includes first, second, and
third ferrules 114, 116, 118 coupled to a first side 120 of the housing 112, and fourth and fifth
ferrules 122, 124 coupled to a second side of the housing 126 opposite to the first side of the
housing 120. The module 110 is configured to convert sets of optical fibers supported by the
first, second, and third ferrules into sets of optical fibers supported by the fourth and fifth ferrules
(see FIG. 2). Indicia, such as port number, on the module 110 is accurate regardless of the
position of the module on either side of trunk cables in a parallel optics data transmission system
                                                   -6-

(see FIGS. 4-6). FIG. 2 includes the fiber optic routing scheme for optical pathways (within
optical fibers or connected optical fibers) within the module 110.
[0019]    Referring now to FIGS. 2-3, the fiber optic assembly 110 includes first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, and sixth groups of optical fibers G 1, G 2, G 3, G4 , G5 , G6 , a first connector set 152,
and a second connector set 154. The groups of optical fibers G 1, G2 , G3 , G 4, G5 , G6 are arranged
in data transmission pairs of the groups such that one group of each pair is configured to transmit
data and the other group of the pair is configured to receive data (symbolized in FIGS. 2-3 by
arrows according to an embodiment). The groups of each pair may be configured to both
transmit and/or receive data. According to an exemplary embodiment, the pairs of the groups are
organized such that a first pair Pi includes the first and second groups G1 (e.g., transmit
pathways), G2 (e.g., receive pathways) of optical fibers, a second pair P2 includes the third and
fourth groups G 3 (e.g., transmit pathways), G4 (e.g., receive pathways) of optical fibers, and a
third pair P3 includes the fifth and sixth groups G5 (e.g., transmit pathways), G6 (e.g., receive
pathways) of optical fibers.
[0020]    According to an exemplary embodiment, the first connector set 152 includes first,
second, and third ferrules 114, 116, 118 (see FIG. 2; as may be used with interfaces, adapters,
multi-fiber connectors), and the second connector set 154 includes fourth and fifth ferrules 122,
124. In some embodiments, the optical fibers of each group G 1, G2 , G5 , G6 are the same length
as the other optical fibers of the respective group G 1, G2 , G5 , G6 (e.g., less than 1% difference in
length relative to the longest fiber). Configuring the optical fibers of a particular group to be the
same length as one another is intended to reduce skew in data transmission via parallel-optics
processes (see Background).
[0021]    According to an exemplary embodiment, the first pair Pi of groups of optical fibers
extends between the first and fourth ferrules 114, 122 such that the optical fibers of the first and
second groups G 1, G2 of optical fibers are the same length as one another (e.g., less than 1%
difference in average length of the groups' fibers relative to the longer group's average length).
The third pair P 3 of groups of optical fibers extends between the third and fifth ferrules 118, 124
such that the optical fibers of the fifth and sixth groups G5 , G6 of optical fibers are the same
length as one another. In some embodiments, the optical fibers of the groups G 1, G 2, G5 , G6 of
                                                   -7-

optical fibers of the first and third pairs PI, P 3 are all the same length as one another, but need not
always be so.
[0022]     According to an exemplary embodiment, half the third group G 3 of optical fibers
extends between the second and fourth ferrules 116, 122 and half the third group G3 of optical
fibers extends between the second and fifth ferrules 116, 124. In some such embodiments, half
the fourth group G 4 of optical fibers extends between the second and fifth ferrules 116, 124, and
half the fourth group G4 of optical fibers extends between the second and fourth ferrules 116,
122. In some embodiments, the optical fibers of the third and fourth groups G3 , G 4 of optical
fibers are a different length (e.g., at least 1% difference in average length of the groups' fibers
relative to the longer group's average length) than the optical fibers of the groups G 1, G 2, G5 , G6
of optical fibers of the first and third pairs Pi, P 3 (see, e.g., Li as shown in FIG. 1 and compare to
L4 as shown in FIG. 5).
[0023]     According to an exemplary embodiment, the first pair Pi of groups of optical fibers
only extends between the first and fourth ferrules 114, 122, and the third pair P3 of groups of
optical fibers only extends between the third and fifth ferrules 118, 124. Such an arrangement
facilitates a direct route of communication between the respective connectors, thereby reducing
the path length of optical fibers (and associated attenuation) and reducing the complexity of the
scheme relative to more elaborate arrangements. In some embodiments, the optical fibers of the
third group G3 extend between the second and fourth ferrules 116, 122, and between the second
and fifth ferrules 116, 124; and the optical fibers of the fourth group G 4 only extend between the
second and fifth ferrules 116, 124 and between the second and fourth ferrules 116, 122,.
[0024]     According to an exemplary embodiment, the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth
groups of optical fibers G 1, G2 , G 3, G 4, G5 , G6 , each include at least two optical fibers per group,
such as at least four, at least six, at least eight, at least twelve, at least twenty-four, at least one
hundred-and-forty-four, or more. In some embodiments, the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and
sixth groups of optical fibers G 1, G2 , G3 , G4, G5 , G6 each include the same number of optical
fibers as one another, such as two per group, such as at least four, at least six, at least eight, at
least twelve, at least twenty-four, at least one-hundred-and-forty-four per group, or more. The
number of fibers in groups of the same pair may be the same. The number of fibers in groups of
                                                      -8-

optical fibers in all of the groups G 1, G2 , G 3, G4 , G5 , G6 may be the same, or may differ, such as
four fibers in each of groups G 1, G 2, G5 , G6 and eight fibers in each of groups G 3, G4 . The fibers
of a group, of a pair, and/or of the harness assembly may operate in conjunction with one another
to provide a finely parsed signal(s) and a correspondingly higher rate of data transmission, when
compared to schemes using a fewer number of fibers per group (such as only one single mode
fiber). In various alternate embodiments, the optical fibers of the groups may be arranged in
different configurations, such as loose optical fibers (single mode or multi-mode), ribbons of
optical fibers joined together, or even one or more "multi-core" fibers that include multiple
optical fibers bound in a single cladding.
[0025]    Referring to FIGS. 3 and 7-8, a cable assembly 210, 310 may include a furcation 216,
316 (e.g., partitioning element, separation structure) between the first and second sets of ferrules
312, 314 (see also connectors 212, 214 including ferrules therein) through which passes each of
the groups of optical fibers (see also FIG. 2). The cable assembly 210, 310 may have the same
optical fiber routing scheme as the module 110 of FIG. 2.
[0026]    FIG. 3 shows the furcation 216 as part of a harness within a module 210, such as the
module 110, which also includes a housing 218 supporting fiber optic cables 220 and multi-fiber
connectors 212, 214 arranged in a scheme similar to FIGS. 1-2 or the alternate embodiments
disclosed.
[0027]    FIG. 7 shows the furcation 316 as part of the harness cable 310. As shown in FIGS. 3
4, there is a separate tube 320 (e.g., jacket, sheath, furcation tube, leg) between the furcation 316
and each of the connectors 312, 314, and each of the groups of optical fibers passes through two
of the tubes 320 between the first and second sets of connectors 312, 314.
[0028]    In FIG. 3, the connectors 212, 214 are constrained relative to one another by the
housing 218, while in FIG. 8 the tubes 320 are maneuverable and are at least 0.3 m in length,
whereby any two of the connectors 312, 314 may be positioned relative to one another anywhere
in a distance range between adjoining one another (i.e., touching) to at least 0.5 m apart from one
another (i.e., about 0.6 m) (e.g., or at least about 1 m apart from one another where the length of
the tubes is at least 0.5 m in length; or greater distances with greater tube lengths), which allows
                                                    -9-

for great flexibility in the routing of data communications, such as between various components
of computer hardware in a data center. In contemplated embodiments, the tubes 320 are at least
0.2 m in length, but less than 0.3 m in length, such as about 0.24 m for tubes 320 within a
module.
[0029]    Referring to FIG. 3, Applicants have found that the maximum length of the harness
cables 220 within the module 210 should be approximately twelve and a half inches (or the
metric equivalent length), which has been found to allow enough slack for the cables 220 to be
inside the module space (i.e., within the housing 218) without going under the connectors 212,
214. The minimum length of the harness cables 220 should be approximately nine and a half
inches, which will allow for two reworks of the connectors 212, 214 at 38 mm length, as
necessary, and still allows enough slack in the module 210 for low tension on the fibers in the
cables 220.
[0030]    Referring to FIG. 4, two cable assemblies 410, 412 (see also FIGS. 1-2), modules
and/or cables as disclosed herein, may be used together as part of a polarity scheme and convey
data via parallel optics transmission. The assemblies 410, 412 may be joined by trunk cables Ti,
T2 , and may be configured according to a standard key-up/key-down configuration, as described
in TIA 568C.0 standards (e.g., type A, type B, types A and/or B, type C) with regard to flipping
polarity. The trunk cables TI, T2 may include any number of trunks or extender trunks, and may
be routed through intermediate elements according to a more-elaborate scheme.
[0031]    As illustrated by the arrows shown in FIG. 5, for example, the trunk cables T1 , T2 may
support optical signals passing in both directions (e.g., both receiving and transmitting groups).
This "two-way traffic" in each connector provides robustness to the system, where if one of the
two trunk cables Ti, T2 should fail, the other will still be able to pass signals for data
communication, albeit at a slower speed (i.e., data rate).
[0032]    Parallel optics for four-parallel-lane transmission (Tx) for land receivers (Rx) from 40G
(4x 1OG) or 100G (4x25G) utilizing a twelve-fiber base multi-fiber connector MTP structure, as
specified in IEEE (4x10), utilizes only 8-fibers out of the twelve-fiber MTP. However,
embodiments disclosed herein enable customers to utilize all 12-fiber in backbone trunks, when
                                                  - 10 -

six groups include four fibers each (see FIGS. 1-2). Additionally, the disclosed polarity schemes
for QSFP devices (see FIG. 5) keep a logical flow of MTPs on one side to go to the nearest other
MTP; the middle MTP is the only one that is split. In furcation during manufacturing, the
process may be kept simple by utilizing two subunits and keeping most of the fibers grouped in
the same tube. Only fibers from the middle MTP (e.g., pair P 2 as shown in FIGS. 1-2) are
diverted in groups. While other schemes may mix fibers from several groups, which increases
risks of improper polarity. Furthermore, embodiments disclosed herein reduce skew because at
least some parallel signals are kept along the same path with the same length.
 [0033]   When converting to parallel optic systems, customers may face difficulty managing the
placement of alignment pins in a fiber optic link, which are typically required for MTP/MPO
connector mating, where one connector is pinned and the other pin-less. In addition, SR4
transmission requires 8-fibers for communication, however most current MPO cabling systems
are 12-fiber or 24-fiber based, which results in less than 100% fiber utilization. See generally the
patch cords shown in FIG. 6A-6B.
 [0034]   According to another aspect of technology disclosed herein, a user is able to use a
single jumper to install at any location in a link and with any orientation regardless of system
architectures by using a pin-less jumper (i.e., no pins on associated connectors) to plug into both
the electronics and patch field. Some such embodiments include a pinned-to-pinned conversion
module that allows a single pin-less jumper to be utilized in all system architectures while
achieving 100% fiber utilization. According to an exemplary embodiment, the conversion could
be any variation of the following configurations in addition to their multiples: (1) 24-fiber MPO
to (3) 8-fiber MPO; (2) 12-fiber MPO to (3) 8-fiber MPO; (1) 24-fiber MPO to (2) 12-fiber
MPO; (1) 48-fiber MTP to (6) 8-fiber MPO or (2) 24-fiber. In some embodiments, MTP
jumpers are converted or replaced from a pinned-unpinned structure jumper, to a completely pin
less jumper structure. In addition, this same pin-less jumper may work in a direct-connect (from
electronic port to electronic port) and in a cross-connect cabling scheme. By contrast, with
contemporary systems such cabling schemes would require various wiring/pinning jumper
schemes, but the present solution simplifies the options for a single jumper solution to "fit all."
Combining such a structure with a pinned MTP connector inside a module (see, e.g., FIG. 3)
                                                 - 11 -

allows all trunks and jumpers in the link to be of the same polarity and pinning. Referring to
                                                         TM
FIG. 3, a conversion device could be in a Plug & Play       closet connector housing (CCH) module
footprint or a Pretium EDGE® module footprint, as manufactured by Corning Cable Systems
LLP of Hickory, North Carolina, United States of America. Some embodiments include pinned
MTP connectors inside the module with unpinned trunks/jumpers external to the module.
[0035]    Referring to FIGS. 9-10, for parallel optics data transmission, modules and harness
cables are typically set up connectors configured for the same number of optical fibers,
regardless of whether the optical fibers are active in the system. For example, a 40G system may
use three twelve-fiber connectors on one side of a module and two twelve-fiber connectors on
the opposite side of the module. On the three-connector side, the twelve-fiber connectors only
carry eight active optical pathways. The other four fibers are "dead" or inactive (i.e., the other
four pathways are inactive). As such, the three twelve-fiber connectors may be a source for error
when optically connecting thereto, because an operator may inadvertently attach a live optical
pathway to a "dead" channel or vice versa. However, eight-fiber connectors may not conform to
industry-wide specifications or standards, such as IEEE standards.
[0036]    The ferrules shown in FIGS. 9-10 are eight-fiber connectors, where the eight holes in
the connectors are located in the place of the active pathways of a twelve fiber connector. For
the ferrule 510 of FIG. 9, two holes are not present on either side of the group. For the ferrule
610 of FIG. 10, four holes are not present in the center of the ferrule, between first and second
groups.
[0037]    In FIG. 10, spacing L1 between each of the holes on the left is equal, and spacing L3
between each of the holes on the right is equal, but the spacing L2 between the left and right
groups is greater than the spacing L1 , L 3 between the holes of either group. The holes of each
group may be aligned, and lines formed by the two groups of holes may be aligned with one
another.
[0038]    As shown, in FIG. 10, for example, the fiber holes have 0.250 mm pitch (which is
standard for twelve-fiber MPO connectors), but the center holes are not present. As such, the
ferrule includes twelve-fiber spacing for eight holes, with the hole spacing from first hole
                                                 - 12 -

(reference as 0.000) in (mm) being: 0.000, 0.250, 0.500, 0.750, 2.000, 2.250, 2.500, 2.750. The
holes typically at 1.000, 1.250, 1.500, and 1.750 are not present. As such, for a typical eight
fiber connector, the holes may be too close together. But the removal of four holes reduces the
chance of assembly error.
[0039]    The construction and arrangements of the fiber optic harness assembly and polarity
schemes, as shown in the various exemplary embodiments, are illustrative only. Although only a
few embodiments have been described in detail in this disclosure, many modifications are
possible (e.g., variations in sizes, dimensions, structures, shapes, and proportions of the various
elements, values of parameters, mounting arrangements, use of materials, colors, orientations)
without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages of the subject matter
described herein. Some elements shown as integrally formed may be constructed of multiple
parts or elements, the position of elements may be reversed or otherwise varied, and the nature or
number of discrete elements or positions may be altered or varied. The order or sequence of any
process, logical algorithm, or method steps may be varied or re-sequenced according to
alternative embodiments. Other substitutions, modifications, changes and omissions may also be
made in the design, operating conditions and arrangement of the various exemplary
embodiments without departing from the scope of the present inventive and innovative
technology.
                                                 - 13 -

        The claims defining the invention are as follows:
        1. A fiber optic assembly, comprising:
                a first set of ferrules, comprising:
                         a first ferrule supporting a first plurality of optical fibers, wherein the first
        plurality of optical fibers comprises first and second groups of optical fibers;
                         a second ferrule supporting a second plurality of optical fibers, wherein
        the second plurality of optical fibers comprises third and fourth groups of optical fibers;
        and
                         a third ferrule supporting a third plurality of optical fibers, wherein the
        third plurality of optical fibers comprises fifth and sixth groups of optical fibers;
                a second set of ferrules, comprising;
                         a fourth ferrule supporting optical fibers of the first, second, third, and
        fourth groups of optical fibers; and
                         a fifth ferrule supporting optical fibers of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth
        groups of optical fibers.
        2. The fiber optic assembly of claim 1, wherein the optical fibers of the first group, as
supported by the first ferrule, are aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                wherein the optical fibers of the second group, as supported by the first ferrule,
are aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                wherein the optical fibers of the third group, as supported by the second ferrule,
are aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                wherein the optical fibers of the fourth group, as supported by the second ferrule,
are aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                wherein the optical fibers of the fifth group, as supported by the third ferrule, are
aligned side-by-side with one another in a row; and
                                                   - 14 -

                 wherein the optical fibers of the sixth group, as supported by the third ferrule, are
aligned side-by-side with one another in a row.
         3.  The fiber optic assembly of claim 1 or 2, wherein the optical fibers of the first group,
as supported by the fourth ferrule, are aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                 wherein the optical fibers of the second group, as supported by the fourth ferrule,
are aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                 wherein the optical fibers of the fifth group, as supported by the fifth ferrule, are
aligned side-by-side with one another in a row; and
                 wherein the optical fibers of the sixth group, as supported by the fifth ferrule, are
aligned side-by-side with one another in a row.
         4. The fiber optic assembly of any one of claims 1-3, wherein all of the optical fibers of
the first and second groups are supported by the first and fourth ferrules; and
                 wherein all of the optical fibers of the fifth and sixth groups are supported by the
third ferrule and the fifth ferrule.
         5.  The fiber optic assembly of any one of claims 1-4, wherein half the optical fibers of
the third group are supported by the fourth ferrule and half the optical fibers of the third group
are supported by the fifth ferrule; and
                 wherein half the optical fibers of the fourth group are supported by the fourth
ferrule and half the optical fibers of the fourth group are supported by the fifth ferrule.
         6. The fiber optic assembly of any one of claims 1-5, wherein each of the first, second,
third, fourth, fifth, and sixth groups of optical fibers comprises two optical fibers.
         7. The fiber optic assembly of any one of claims 1- 6, wherein each of the first, second,
third, fourth, fifth, and sixth groups of optical fibers comprises four optical fibers.
         8. The fiber optic assembly of any one of claims 1- 7, wherein each of the first, second,
third, fourth, fifth, and sixth groups of optical fibers comprises ten optical fibers.
                                                  - 15 -

         9. The fiber optic assembly of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the first, second, third,
fourth, fifth, and sixth groups of optical fibers each include the same number of optical fibers as
one another.
         10. The fiber optic assembly of any one of claims 1- 7, wherein the optical fibers of the
first group are all essentially the same length as one another such that skew of optical
communications transmitted in parallel through the optical fibers of the first group between the
first and fourth ferrules is less than 500 picoseconds.
         11. The fiber optic assembly of claim 10, wherein the optical fibers of the first and
second groups are all essentially the same length as one another such that skew of optical
communications transmitted in parallel through the optical fibers of the first and second groups
between the first and fourth ferrules is less than 500 picoseconds.
         12. The fiber optic assembly of any one of claims 1- 11, further comprising a housing,
wherein the first, second, and third ferrules are coupled to a first side of the housing and the
fourth and fifth ferrules are coupled to a second side of the housing, and wherein the first and
second sides of the housing are opposite to one another.
         13. The fiber optic assembly of any one of claims 1-11, further comprising at least one
furcation between the first and second sets of connectors through which passes each of the
groups of optical fibers.
         14. The fiber optic assembly of claim 13, further comprising a separate tube between the
at least one furcation and each of the connectors, and wherein each of the groups of optical fibers
passes through two of the tubes.
         15. The fiber optic assembly of claim 14, wherein the tubes are maneuverable and are at
least 0.3 m in length, whereby any two of the connectors may be positioned relative to one
another anywhere in a distance range between adjoining one another to at least 0.5 m apart from
one another.
         16. A fiber optic system for parallel-optic data transmission, comprising:
                                                  - 16 -

                 a first conversion module having a housing and comprising:
                          first, second, and third ferrules coupled to a first side of the housing; and
                          fourth and fifth ferrules coupled to a second side of the housing opposite
        to the first side of the housing,
                          wherein the first conversion module is configured to convert sets of
        optical fibers supported by the first, second, and third ferrules into sets of optical fibers
        supported by the fourth and fifth ferrules;
                 a second conversion module identical to the first conversion module,
                 wherein the first and second conversion modules are interchangeable in the fiber
optic system such that:
                          when the first and second conversion modules are aligned with one
        another but rotated 180-degrees relative to one another so that the second sides of the first
        and second conversion modules face one another and the fourth ferrule of the first
        conversion module is opposite to the fifth ferrule of the second conversion module, and
                          when trunk cables connect the fourth ferrules of the first and second
        conversion modules, without flipping fibers, and the fifth ferrules of the first and second
        conversion modules, without flipping fibers,
                          then optical pathways provided by the optical fibers supported by the first,
        second, and third ferrules of the first conversion module are connected to and arranged in
        the same order as optical pathways provided by the optical fibers supported by the first,
        second, and third ferrules of the second conversion module, respectively, whereby the
        two conversion modules may be used interchangeably on either side of the trunk cables
        without additional componentry for reordering of the optical pathways.
                                                    - 17 -

         17. The fiber optic system of claim 16, wherein the first ferrule supports a first plurality
of optical fibers, wherein the first plurality of optical fibers comprises first and second groups of
optical fibers;
                wherein the second ferrule supports a second plurality of optical fibers, wherein
the second plurality of optical fibers comprises third and fourth groups of optical fibers;
                wherein the third ferrule supports a third plurality of optical fibers, wherein the
third plurality of optical fibers comprises fifth and sixth groups of optical fibers;
                wherein the fourth ferrule supports the optical fibers of the first, second, third, and
fourth groups of optical fibers;
                wherein the fifth ferrule supports the optical fibers of the third, fourth, fifth, and
sixth groups of optical fibers;
                wherein the optical fibers are of the first group, as supported by the first ferrule,
are aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                wherein the optical fibers of the second group, as supported by the first ferrule,
are aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                wherein the optical fibers of the third group, as supported by the second ferrule,
are aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                wherein the optical fibers of the fourth group, as supported by the second ferrule,
are aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                wherein the optical fibers of the fifth group, as supported by the third ferrule, are
aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                wherein the optical fibers of the sixth group, as supported by the third ferrule, are
aligned side-by-side with one another in a row;
                wherein all of the optical fibers of the first and second groups are supported by
the first and fourth ferrules;
                wherein all of the optical fibers of the fifth and sixth groups are supported by the
third ferrule and the fifth ferrule;
                                                  - 18 -

                wherein half the optical fibers of the third group are supported by the fourth
ferrule and half the optical fibers of the third group are supported by the fifth ferrule;
                wherein half the optical fibers of the fourth group are supported by the fourth
ferrule and half the optical fibers of the fourth group are supported by the fifth ferrule;
                wherein each of the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth groups of optical
fibers comprises four optical fibers; and
                wherein the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth groups of optical fibers
each include the same number of optical fibers as one another.
        18. The fiber optic system of claim 16, further comprising the trunk cables.
                                                  - 19 -

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
0123567689 6 2672823 7639 0

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
0123567689 6 2672823 7639 0

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
0123567689 6 2672823 7639 0

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
0123567689 6 2672823 7639 0

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
0123567689 6 2672823 7639 0

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
0123567689 6 2672823 7639 0

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
0123567689 6 2672823 7639 0

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
0123567689 6 2672823 7639 0

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
0123567689 6 2672823 7639 0

 <removed-date>
 <removed-apn>
0123567689 6 2672823 7639 0

