                                       ABSTRACT
           An equipment isolation switch assembly (200) for use in a remote isolation
   system (10) for isolating an equipment item (20,21) comprising an equipment
 5 isolation switch (400) movable between a first position (NORMAL) in which said
   equipment item (20,21) is energized by an energy source (30) and a second
   isolated position (ISOLATE) in which said equipment item (20,21) is isolated from
   said energy source (30) and an actuating device (500) co-operable with the
   equipment isolation switch (400) to move it between said first and second
10 positions wherein said isolation switch assembly (200) includes at least one
   securing means (291,405) for securing said actuating device (500) in co
   operation with said equipment isolation switch (400) whenever in operative state.

                5/20
                      51220
                             230        220
                            2912C
           415A      500
                   g              510
 405A
405C             O                291 A
  405G
  405
405B29
       240
                     Fig 5

                                              1
                    AN EQUIPMENT ISOLATION SWITCH ASSEMBLY
           This invention relates to an equipment isolation switch assembly, in
   particular for use in remote isolation systems.
           Various types of equipment must be isolated from a range of energy
 5 sources including electrical energy (the most common) and mechanical energy
   including pressure and potential energy to enable safe maintenance and other
   work to be carried out. For example, conveyor belt systems used in the mining
   industry for transporting iron ore or other bulk materials can span significant
   distances.    These distances can be in the range of many kilometres.             Such
10 conveyors are typically powered by electric drive motors: three phase electrical
   power is supplied wherein the voltage may range from low voltage ranges (from
   below 600V to 1OOOV AC), to medium and high voltage ranges (in the multiple kV
   range and extending to above 10kV AC and even 33kV AC).                Such conveyors
   typically include brake systems which are also electrically operated.
15         Although different mine procedures and relevant safety standards may
   apply, a typical pre-requisite before permitting mechanical maintenance or other
   activity involving access to the conveyor belt system involves the electrical
   isolation of the conveyor system. This isolation ensures that the energy source
   powering the conveyor belts and associated equipment, i.e. electrical power, is
20 removed from systems that - if energised - could cause a safety hazard. It will
   however be understood that equipment items other than conveyor systems also
   require isolation for maintenance and other purposes.
           The isolation process is invariably safety critical and has, in the past, been
   time consuming, as described for example in the introduction to the Applicant's
25 granted Australian Patent No. 2010310881 and International Publication No. WO
   2012/142674, the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
           The    remote   isolation  system   described     in  Australian   Patent  No.
   2010310881 enables equipment isolation to be requested at a remote isolation
   station associated with the equipment and subsequently approved through a plant
30 control system, without mandatory visitation to the equipment by authorized
   isolation personnel. This remote isolation system significantly reduces time for
   achieving safe isolation, especially production downtime which can be very costly.

                                               2
           The remote isolation station includes an isolation switch means which must
   be switched to isolated mode subsequent to an isolation approval being received.
   The isolation switch means must also be locked, by a locking means, into the
   isolated    mode thereby preventing        re-energisation of purposefully isolated
 5 equipment.      This is called a manual lock out system and current Western
   Australian mining regulations require lockout, applying a hasp then a personal
   lock on the hasp, to the isolation switch which is provided with a specific aperture
   for this lockout purpose.
           An issue that may arise with lock attachment of this nature is that
10 personnel may misunderstand the correct location for attaching the hasp and
   attach it incorrectly to the wrong part of the isolation switch.
           The above discussion assumes use of a manual lock out system.
   However, other mechanically or electrically operable locking devices may become
   available in the future and the Applicant also seeks to address future potential
15 issues with mis-application of such locking devices to the isolation switch.
           It would be desirable to provide an isolation switch that minimises, or more
   preferably eliminates, the risk of misapplication of locking devices during the
   isolation procedure.
           With this object in view, the present invention provides an equipment
20 isolation switch assembly for use in a remote isolation system for remotely
   isolating an equipment item comprising:
            an equipment isolation switch movable between a first position in which
   said equipment item is energised by an energy source and a second isolated
   position in which said equipment item is isolated from said energy source; and
25         an actuating device co-operable with the equipment isolation switch to
   move it between said first and second positions;
   wherein said isolation switch assembly includes at least one securing means for
   securing said actuating device in co-operation with said equipment isolation
   switch whenever in operative state.
30         The equipment isolation switch assembly is advantageously configured to
   enable deactivation, for example where a user of the Applicant's remote isolation
   system decides to select an alternative isolation procedure under particular
   equipment operating conditions or where a control system of the remote isolation

                                               3
   system indicates that selection of an alternative isolation procedure is required.
   Deactivation to a maintenance or bypass mode also permits maintenance of the
   equipment isolation switch and the remote isolation system.               In case of
   deactivation, the securing means is removed allowing the actuating device, such
 5 as a removable key, to be removed from co-operation with the equipment
   isolation switch.
           Such removal of the actuating device is permitted by the equipment
   isolation switch only when the associated equipment item(s) is (are) in normal
   position, not the isolated position. Such deactivation may also require other tasks
10 to be completed before a remote isolation system is safely and completely
   removed from service. For example, completion of such tasks may involve the
   use of other keys, preferably rendered operable using a key exchange unit such
   as that described in the Applicant's Australian Provisional Patent Application No.
   2015902557 filed on 30 June 2015, the contents of which are hereby
15 incorporated herein by reference.       In embodiments such as this, the actuating
   device, such as a key, is multi-functional being used to implement additional tasks
   in the isolation system to just actuating the equipment isolation switch.
           Conveniently, the actuating device is a key for moving the equipment
   isolation switch between the first and second positions to isolate equipment.
20 Such key is typically a mechanical device (though other devices including
   electronic devices and signals could be used). Where mechanical keys are used,
   the switch module may take the same form as a conventional lock, for example a
   cylinder-lock working on a pin and tumbler principle.        For reasons described
   above, the key is desirably both unique to the equipment isolation switch and
25 removable under prescribed circumstances, the key circumstance being a
   requirement for deactivation of the equipment isolation.
           The equipment isolation switch may be comprised within a replaceable
   switch module, a feature which is particularly advantageous under certain
   circumstances.     For example, safety is a paramount consideration and, for this
30 reason, it is undesirable to provide duplicate actuating devices with it instead
   being highly preferable for a unique actuating device to be provided to co-operate
   with any equipment isolation switch. Accordingly, if the actuating device is lost or
   stolen from the switch, even if intended to be removable under prescribed

                                            4
   circumstances described below, replication is avoided and no replacement is
   available. Rather, the switch module is replaced with a substitute switch module
   including its corresponding actuating device following any required authorisation
   procedure. The original switch module may then be refurbished with a substitute
 5 actuating device in a manner with substantially lesser risk than encountered with
   duplicate actuating devices.
           The securing means would be a mechanical or electronic means, or a
   combination of these which holds the equipment isolation switch and actuating
   device in co-operation through operation of a control system for the remote
10 isolation system whenever the equipment isolation switch is operative.
           The securing means may hold the actuating device in co-operation with the
   equipment isolation switch through operation of a control system for the remote
   isolation system.    For example, the control system may prevent the actuating
   device from disengaging from co-operation with the switch unless specific
15 conditions, such as faults, arise. The actuating device, such as a key, may be
   held captive to the switch - for example by mechanical interlock - unless the
   securing means is removed under control system authority. The control system
   could also prevent removal of any mechanical securing means such as the
   keeper plate described below.
20         The isolation switch requires to be locked out to complete equipment
   isolation. Currently, the lockout process is a manual process requiring application
   of a locking device such as a hasp and personal lock to the isolation switch,
   though electronic devices, such as smart cards, may be used in the future, for
   example as described in the Applicant's Australian Provisional Patent Application
25 Nos. 2015902559 and 2015902564 each filed on 30 June 2015, the contents of
   which are hereby incorporated herein by way of reference.
           The above described isolation switch advantageously should not permit
   lockout unless the above mentioned control system for the remote isolation
   system electronically implements co-operation between the isolation switch and
30 locking device in line with a series of permissives, which desirably involves
   completion of a logical sequence of requirements, selected to prevent hazardous
   release of energy from the equipment item following isolation.    Importantly, this
   means, amongst other benefits, that personnel cannot complete the required

                                              5
   lockout process by misapplication of a manual lock to an apparent lockout point
   or, by analogy, by way of some other form of locking device.
           A preferred series of permissives would involve a first try start step
   involving attempted restart of the equipment item. Successful completion of this
 5 try start step actually involves a failure to restart the equipment item. A second
   step in the sequence, subsequent to successful completion of the try start step,
   would involve actuation of the securing means. Both steps are controlled by the
   control system of the remote isolation system.
           In a preferred embodiment suitable for a manual lockout arrangement, the
10 equipment isolation switch comprises a securing means including a plurality of
   lock members engageable to form a lockout point when permitted by the control
   system. Two such lock members are preferred, each configured with portions co
   operable, when permitted by the control system, to form the required lock out
   point. Such portions may be in the form of cut outs, such as slots, which co
15 operate to form an aperture providing the isolation lockout point. A first lock
   member may be a fixed portion of the equipment isolation switch, possibly
   forming part of the exterior of the equipment isolation switch housing. A further
   lock member may be configured to be inoperable, for example being held captive
   at a desired location, until the control system authorises lockout. To reiterate,
20 control system lockout authorisation is dependent on the correct isolation
   procedure involving successful completion of a series of permissives such as that
   described above being followed.
           The further lock member may be held captive to the housing of the
   equipment isolation switch, for example by magnetic force (such as induced by a
25 solenoid) or mechanical interlock. When the control system authorises a lockout,
   the further lock member is released, thereby being actuated through movement
   into co-operation with the first lock member to together form the aperture which
   provides the required lock out point.
           Preferably, the equipment isolation switch assembly securing means
30 comprises a plate lock member which, when positioned for isolation, partially or
   wholly covers the isolation switch to prevent it being moved from the isolated
   position.    In such a case, the plate forms the further lock member and an
   additional securing means. The plate is connected to a hinge only operable to

                                             6
   allow the plate to rotate into co-operation with the first lock member when
   authorised by the control system following completion of the correct isolation
   procedure.
           Where a mechanical key is used, it typically requires to be inserted to
 5 activate the equipment isolation switch.       Equipment isolation switches tend
   however to be subject to environmental factors, such as vibrations emanating
   from equipment or caused by climatic conditions. Such vibration could cause the
   key to be lost from the switch. Misuse or error might also result in key loss. To
   avoid loss in circumstances such as this, a retaining or keeper plate may be
10 installed as part of the equipment isolation switch assembly following insertion of
   the key into the switch, the plate having an aperture through which a portion of
   the key extends for manual operation between the first and second positions.
   However, the aperture has insufficient dimension to allow removal of the key once
   the keeper plate has engaged the key. The keeper plate may itself be locked into
15 position by a lock preventing unauthorised removal.
           The position of the further lock member is preferably monitored by sensors
   and the control system for correct positioning whether for isolated and de-isolated
   states. An alert signal may issue where there is any variation from such correct
   positioning. Tampering with a locked out equipment isolation switch may also be
20 monitored by sensors provided for the purpose.
           The equipment isolation switch is advantageously employed in the
   Applicant's remote isolation systems which include a control system for approving
   isolation on permissible request logged by an operator at a remote isolation
   station.   Such systems are described, for example, in Australian Patent No.
25 2010310881 and the Applicant's Australian Provisional Patent Application Nos.
   2015902556,        2015902557,       2015902558,     2015902559,      2015902561,
   2015902562, 2015902564 and 2015902566 each filed on 30 June 2015, the
   contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by way of reference.
           More preferably, the equipment isolation switch is integrated with the
30 remote isolation station which also includes the required control panel and
   interface for effecting equipment isolation requests. The remote isolation station
   may be in a fixed position or may be configured to be mobile to suit specific
   applications. A plurality of remote isolation stations may also be provided for an

                                              7
   equipment item. Where a remote isolation station is arranged to be mobile, for
   example in the form of a portable computer device or communication device
   using wireless communications, it will likely be possible to reduce the number of
   remote isolation stations well below that conveniently employed using fixed
 5 remote isolation stations.
            Lockout of the equipment isolation switch, for instance at the above
   described remote isolation station may release an additional actuating device,
   such as a key, or equipment item for use in, or following, an isolation procedure.
   Such actuating device may be used to operate a specific equipment item and/or
10 to access a particular area off limits other than when equipment is isolated. For
   example, barriers such as gates or doors may be locked during normal equipment
   operating conditions but when the equipment isolation switch is locked out, a key
   for removing the barrier, such as by opening a gate or door, is released enabling
   equipment maintenance.
15          The equipment isolation switch may be included in any desired remote
   isolation system, beneficially being included in new remote isolation systems or
   retrofitted to existing isolation systems, especially those remote isolation systems
   disclosed and/or supplied by the Applicant. Such remote isolation systems may
   be used in a range of applications including in the materials handling and mining
20 industries. The equipment isolation switch assembly may also advantageously
   be used for isolating rail system components in railway infrastructure.
            The term "isolation" as used in this specification is to be understood in its
   maintenance engineering and legal sense as not simply turning off a supply of
   energy to equipment, whatever the nature of that energy, but removing and/or
25 dissipating energy to provide a safe work environment as required by applicable
   occupational health and safety regulations. In the case of electricity, as just one
   example, isolation is not achieved simply by turning off a power supply to the
   equipment.      In such cases, the equipment could accidentally re-start or be
   restarted and cause injury to personnel, or worse.         Isolation instead prevents
30 such accidental re-starting and typically will also involve processes to dissipate
   any hazardous stored energy, in whatever form that energy may take (e.g.
   potential energy), from the equipment. For example, such an additional energy
   dissipation step could be effected in respect of a conveyor belt system by way of

                                             8
   the braking cycle procedure as described in the Applicant's Australian Provisional
   Patent Application No. 2015902565, the contents of which are incorporated
   herein by way of reference.
           The equipment isolation switch assembly of the present invention may be
 5 more fully understood from the following description of a preferred embodiment
   made with reference to the following drawings in which:
           FIG 1 shows a schematic layout of a remote isolation system as applied to
   a conveyor belt system and including the equipment isolation switch assembly of
   one embodiment of the present invention.
10         FIG 2 shows a schematic of a control panel for use in the remote isolation
   system schematised in FIG 1, the control panel integrating the equipment
   isolation switch of one embodiment of the present invention.
           FIG 3 shows a front left perspective view of the isolation switch included
   within the control panel of FIG 2 in inoperative condition and being prepared for
15 use with a retaining (keeper) plate securing means being moved into position for
   preventing removal of a key actuating device when installed.
           FIG 4 shows a perspective view of the keeper plate of FIG 3.
           FIG 5 shows a front perspective view of the equipment isolation switch
   assembly of FIG 3 in a normal condition with key installed and keeper plate being
20 moved into position for securing the key.
           FIG 6 shows a front perspective view of the equipment isolation switch
   assembly showing key installed in the equipment isolation switch with the keeper
   plate in position, once locked, to prevent key removal.
           FIG 7 shows a first front perspective view of the equipment isolation switch
25 assembly showing key installed in the equipment isolation switch with the keeper
   plate locked into position to prevent key removal.
           FIG 8 shows a second front perspective view of the equipment isolation
   switch assembly of FIGS 3 and 5 to 7.
           FIG 9 shows a front perspective view of the equipment isolation switch
30 assembly later with the key moved to ISOLATE position prior to lockout.
           FIG 10 shows a front perspective view of the equipment isolation switch
   assembly shown in FIGS 3 and 5 to 8 with a movable lock member being moved
   into lockout position to prevent switch movement from the ISOLATE position.

                                             9
           FIG 11 shows a top perspective view of the equipment isolation switch
   assembly shown in FIGS 3 and 5 to 9 with the movable lock members almost in
   lockout position.
           FIG 12 shows a top perspective view of the equipment isolation switch
 5 assembly shown in FIGS 3 and 5 to 11 with the lock members in lockout position
   ready for a hasp to be applied.
           FIG 13 shows a top perspective view of the equipment isolation switch
   assembly shown in FIGS 3 and 5 to 12 with the lock members and hasp in a
   locked out position.
10         FIG 14 shows a front perspective view of the equipment isolation switch
   assembly shown in FIGS 3 and 5 to 13 with the lock members and hasp in a
   locked out position.
           FIGS 15A and 15B show detailed perspective views illustrating the
   arrangement and movement of a movable lock member for the equipment
15 isolation switch assembly shown in FIGS 3 and 5 to 14.
           FIG 15C shows a partial front view of an equipment isolation switch
   assembly shown in FIGS 3 and 5 to 14 with cover removed to show the lock
   member arrangement in position within the switch box.
           FIG 16 shows a bottom perspective view of the equipment isolation switch
20 assembly shown in FIGS 3 and 5 to 9 in normal condition.
           FIG 17 shows a replaceable module including the switch of the equipment
   isolation switch assembly shown in FIGS 3, 5 to 14, 15C and 16.
           FIG 18 shows a key used for activating or deactivating the equipment
   isolation switch.
25         Referring to FIG 1, there is shown a schematic layout of a remote isolation
   system 10, as retrofitted on to an existing conveyor belt system 20, for example a
   long range overland conveyor system for conveying iron ore from a mine site to a
   port for shipment. The conveyor belt system 20 comprises a troughed conveyor
   belt 21 having a head pulley motor 22 driven by an electrical supply emanating
30 from electrical contacts 31, whether provided as contactors or circuit breakers.
   One contact is a standard contactor for "ON"/"OFF" operation of the motor 22.
   The head pulley motor 22 is powered through a variable speed drive (VSD) which
   is electrically powered from a 3 phase AC power supply line 23 providing voltages

                                             10
   of less than 1000V AC. The electrical power is supplied from a sub-station 30.
   The sub-station 30 houses the contacts 31.      Activation of the contacts 31 (i.e.
   placing them in the "off" or "break" state), de-energises all 3 phases of the
   electrical supply to the conveyor head pulley drive motor 22.            Such de
 5 energisation is continuously monitored by a voltage monitor relay (not shown)
   located downstream of contacts 31, i.e. on the conveyor belt system 20 side of
   the contacts 31.
           The conveyor belt system 20 also includes a Tramp Metal Detector (TMD)
   21B for detecting tramp metal which requires removal to avoid damage to the
10 conveyor belt 21.    Prior to removal of tramp metal, the conveyor belt system 20
   requires isolation, as described below, to make removal safer.
           The conveyor belt system 20 and sub-station 30 are under the control and
   supervision of a plant control system 260 having a central control room (CCR) 40,
   via a DCS (Distributed Control System), a PLC (Programmable Logic Controller)
15 and a SCADA (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition System) as are
   commonly used and would be well understood by the skilled person. Item 41 in
   FIG 1 is representative of a communication and control network between the
   CCR 40 and various other plant systems and components.            A Control Room
   Operator (CRO) 42 is located within the CCR 40 and has various input/output
20 (1/O) devices and displays available (not shown) for the proper supervision and
   control of the conveyor belt system 20. Except for the remote isolation system
   10, the above description represents what may be considered a conventional
   system in the materials handling and mining industries.
           The remote isolation system 10 comprises fixed remote isolation stations
25 12 and 14 which are located proximate to the conveyor belt system 20. It will be
   understood that remote isolation stations 12 and 14 could be replaced or
   supplemented by one or more mobile isolation stations, for example in the form of
   a portable computer devices (in certain applications these potentially being
   provided    as    smartphones)    or   communication     devices   using  wireless
30 communications      as disclosed for     example  in   the  Applicant's  Australian
   Provisional Patent Application Nos. 2015902561 and 2015902562 , the contents
   of which are incorporated herein by reference. The remote isolation stations 12

                                               11
   and 14 may be powered from the plant grid, other power networks or alternative
   power sources, conveniently such as solar power.
           The remote isolation system 10 also includes a master controller 50
   incorporating a human/machine interface (HMI) in the form of a touch sensitive
 5 screen 51 which displays human interpretable information. The master controller
   50 is also located within sub-station 30. Remote isolation stations 12 and 14 are
   in communication with master controller 50 and each other via communication
   channels 11 and 13.       These communication channels can be provided in any
   suitable form including hard wired or wireless forms with an open communications
10 protocol. Ethernet communications are particularly preferred to enable flexible
   system updating on site if needed.         Communications must be via safety rated
   communications protocol software such as Interbus Safety or PROFIsafe which
   are well known within the mining and materials handling industries.         This will
   ensure that the communication channels are monitored and diagnostic tools are
15 available for fault control and rectification when required.
           Further description of the electrical layout and operation of the remote
   isolation system 10 is provided in the Applicant's granted Australian Patent No.
   2010310881, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.              In
   summary, the conveyor belt system 20 is isolated by a process involving the
20 following sequence of steps:
       e   Operator request for control system to approve isolation of all or part of the
           conveyor belt system 20 including conveyor 21 and drive motor 22 in
           accordance with a preferred mode of isolation developed by the Applicant
           and    described    in  Australian     Provisional Patent Application      No.
25         2015902558, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference;
       e   Isolation approved if operator request meets permissives for isolation, for
           example as described in Australian Patent No. 2010310881;
       e   Isolation automatically implemented;
       e   Try step process being invoked to check that the isolation is effective,
30         which involves checking that electrical contacts 31 for the conveyor belt
           system 20 are in isolated position with no voltage being detected by the
           voltage monitor relay downstream of the electrical contacts 31 (and
           desirably, conveyor belt movement sensors such as movement speed

                                               12
           sensor S and/or belt standstill monitor 900 confirming that the conveyor
           belt 21 has come to a complete stop as described below); an attempt to re
           start the conveyor belt system 20 using try step button or an automated
           process; and checking that there is no re-energisation of conveyor belt
 5         system 20 (which may involve monitoring as described in the Applicant's
           Australian Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902556, the contents of
           which are incorporated herein by reference); and
       e   Lockout at a control panel of remote isolation station 12 and/or 14 if the try
           step process is unsuccessful (as desired) and related stored energy tests
10         show that, for all practical safety purposes, energy has been dissipated
           from the conveyor belt system 20 and the remote isolation system 10 can
           proceed to isolate.
           FIG 2 shows a schematic of a control panel 700 arranged as part of each
   of remote isolation stations 12 and 14 for implementing the Applicant's remote
15 isolation system.     Panel 700 has a human machine interface (HMI) 710 with a
   touch screen 1265 (though less fragile buttons, switches and other input devices
   may be used in alternative arrangements) for entering commands, including
   issuing isolation requests to the plant control system.       Request button 740 is
   provided for instigating isolation requests, whilst information can also be
20 presented on screen 1265 in respect of any such isolation requests including
   isolation status and plant data.
           Control panel 700 also includes:
       " indicator light 720 showing whether or not the remote isolation station
           (RIS) 12 or 14 is available for isolation;
25     e   indicator light block 725 showing whether or not exclusive or maintenance
           mode for the remote isolation system is active as described in Australian
           Provisional Patent Application No. 2015902557 (with the remote isolation
           station 12 exclusively controlling operation of the conveyor belt system 20),
           the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference; and respective
30         "select" and "cancel" buttons for initiating or terminating the maintenance
           mode;
       e   Indicator light 730 to provide zero energy confirmation when sensors, such
           as at least the load voltage monitor relay described above for contacts 31

                                              13
          and preferably conveyor belt 21 movement sensors as well, indicate zero
          hazardous energy in the conveyor belt system 20 (i.e. a zero energy
          indication is achieved when the culmination of all energy sources being
          monitored confirms that there is no stored or latent energy (whether
 5        potential, or electrical etc) remaining in the system desired to be isolated);
       e  request isolation button 740 which is activated by an operator to request
          isolation and "request approved" indicator light 750 which illuminates to
          provide status information to said operator;
       e  indicator light block 760 for showing correctness of selection of the
10        conveyor belt 21 for isolation and for indicating that control system
          checking is taking place subsequent to an isolation request being
          instigated;
       e  indicator light block 770 for showing whether or not the isolation process is
          complete following control system checking; and
15     e  graphics (in the form of arrows and text) illustrating the sequence of steps
          to be followed in the required isolation procedure.
          Control panel 700 also includes an equipment isolation switch block 765
   which prevents completion of the isolation process by locking with an operator's
   personal lock at isolation switch 400 until the correct remote isolation procedure,
20 for example as described in Australian Patent No. 2010310881               has been
   completed. In particular, a correct remote isolation procedure requires a try start
   step to be completed by an operator by activation of a try step button 780 before
   any manual lock out is possible. The equipment isolation switch 400 is designed
   to prevent any such manual lock out before the correct isolation procedure has
25 been completed.
          The try step is essentially a means by which an isolation can be proved by
   attempting a plant start. Failure of the plant to start can be considered as
   confirmation that an operator has isolated the correct plant or equipment item.
   The operations that occur when a try step is performed may vary from site to site
30 and application to application, but by way of example, the control system can
   provide the following actions when the try step button 780 is pressed:
       e  simultaneously or sequentially activation as may be required to attempt all
          possible starts for that plant such as soft start activation via SCADA,

                                              14
           including the various modes such as manual & auto, and other hard wired
           starts such as via field start pushbuttons; and
       *   checks of the positions of all devices/equipment to be isolated and the
           energy    status,    or   presence    of   energy,  in  these  and    other
 5         devices/equipment (e.g. checking for belt standstill, brake pressure,
           isolator position, voltage present etc).
           FIGS 3, 5 to 14, 15C and 16 show the equipment isolation switch
   assembly in the form of an isolation switch box 200 required for use to achieve
   isolation of conveyor belt 21. Switch box 200 has a housing 220 which includes
10 equipment isolation switch 400 at the front. Housing 220 includes an upper flange
   230, a lock member in the form of a magnetically operated mechanical interlock
   flap 291 and a resting portion 240 against which flap 291 is held captive when
   required (as will be described further below). Importantly, housing 220 is free of
   apparent lockout points to which a personal lock could be inadvertently fixed
15 when employing a manual lockout procedure.
           Housing 220 also accommodates, noting its interior as well as exterior,
   electrical and mechanical components and systems to enable operation of the
   isolation switch box 200. Power and communications cables are connected
   through socket 280 (detachable by removing screws 282) as shown in FIG 16.
20 Access to interior components, for example by removing an access cover 294, is
   restricted to authorized personnel.      Housing 220 has robust construction being
   configured and designed to endure difficult environmental conditions typical of
   remote mine sites.
           Equipment isolation switch 400 must co-operate with a switch actuating
25 device, which in this embodiment is provided in the form of key 500 whenever
   remote isolation system 10 is operative, i.e. available to achieve remote isolation.
   Key 500 is shown in greater detail in FIG 18 and has an outer portion 510 and a
   body portion 515 formed with a number of notches 520, the purpose of which will
   be described below.        Importantly, the equipment associated with the remote
30 isolation system cannot be locked out or isolated without the key 500 being in
   place to actuate the isolation switch.
           For various reasons, including vibration of the switch box 200 or misuse,
   there is some risk that key 500 could be lost from equipment isolation switch 400.

                                              15
   To minimise such risks, the equipment isolation switch assembly 200 includes at
   least one securing means to secure the key 500 into co-operation with equipment
   isolation switch 400 whenever it is operative, not necessarily in isolated condition
   as will be apparent from description below.
 5         A first such securing means is provided by retaining (keeper) plate 405
   which is designed to prevent removal of key 500 from equipment isolation switch
   400 once locked into position.        Keeper plate 405 is shown as a separate
   component in FIG 4 and includes lower flange 405B and upper flange 405C.
   Upper flange 405C includes an aperture 405A to accommodate a lock device
10 (padlock 407) to secure the keeper plate 405 to the switch box housing 220.
   Keeper plate 405 includes an open ended aperture 405D comprising two slot
   portions 405E and 405F, portion 405F having lesser height than that of portion
   405G and the diameter of isolation switch 400. Aperture 405D has a terminal
   portion 405G at one end of slot portion 405F. The function of these features is
15 described below.
           Keeper plate 405 has dimensions allowing a neat fit between upper
   surface 240A of magnetic portion 240 (with which lower flange 405B of keeper
   plate 405 is in contact) and upper flange 230 (with which upper flange 405C of
   keeper plate 405 is in contact) of switch box housing 220.
20         Installation of keeper plate 405 will now be described with reference to
   FIGS 3 and 5 to 7. Keeper plate 405 is slid into a first position between magnetic
   portion 240 and upper flange 230 of switch box housing 220 as shown in FIG 3.
   In this position, slot portion 405E is co-located with equipment isolation switch
   400 and key 500, having lesser dimension for its body portion 515 than slot 405E
25 such that it may readily be inserted and brought into co-operation with switch 400
   (FIG 5). Keeper plate 405 is slid further into a position, as shown in FIG 6, where
   terminal portion 405G of slot portion 405F engages with key portion 515 whilst
   overlapping with switch 400. The relative dimensions of key portion 515 and slot
   portion 405F now enable keeper plate 405 to prevent removal of key 500 from
30 switch 400.      In this position, aperture 405A of keeper plate 405 aligns with
   corresponding aperture 415A of upper flange 230 of switch box housing 220
   forming a locking point for padlock 407. The keeper plate 405 is now locked into
   position as shown in FIG 7.          In a further embodiment, aimed at making

                                              16
   unauthorised key removal even more difficult, the key 500 may be machined with
   slots locating and securing it to the keeper plate 405.
            Equipment isolation switch 400 is now operable by turning the key 500
   between a first "NORMAL" position in which the drive motor 22 for the conveyor
 5 21 is electrically energised (i.e. not isolated) and a second "ISOLATE" position in
   which the drive motor 22 is electrically isolated and thus without power thereby
   facilitating any maintenance works which may be required. That is, the isolation
   switch 400 maintains the isolated position/status of the isolators when rotated to
   the ISOLATE position, and when rotated or returned to the NORMAL position, de
10 isolation occurs.
            However, whilst turning the key 500 from the NORMAL to the ISOLATE
   position is a necessary step in establishing an isolation state when authorised by
   master controller 50, this alone does not provide a sufficient condition for the
   remote isolation system to isolate the conveyor belt 21 and its drive motor 22.
15 Importantly, the equipment isolation switch 400 must be locked out, in this case,
   by a manual lockout procedure. Further, manual lockout is not provided for by
   equipment isolation switch 400 unless a lockout point is provided by co-operating
   a locking device with the isolation switch 400 under the control of master
   controller 50.     Authorisation of manual lockout by the master controller 50
20 requires the correct remote isolation procedure sequence to have been be
   completed as summarised above and as described in detail for example in the
   Applicant's Australian Patent No. 2010310881.
            The locking device for equipment isolation switch 400 has two lock
   members, the first being formed by cut out or slot 291 C located in a fixed position
25 top flange 230 of the switch housing 220.        Slot 291C would alone not typically
   accommodate a locked padlock or hasp as required for a regulatory governed
   isolation. The second lock member is configured as a plate or flap 291 which has
   a cut out or slot 291 B arranged at one end of flange 292 which corresponds with
   the cut out or slot 291C when the flap 291 is raised to cover the key switch 400.
30 The cut out or slot 291C is also designed to alone not support attachment of a
   hasp or personal lock 600 thereto. The flap 291 also includes a central slot 293
   arranged to correspond with the outer end 510 of the key 500 when the flap 291
   is raised to cover the isolation switch 400.        The slot 293 and flap 291 are

                                             17
   designed with dimensions such that they alone cannot co-operate with a hasp
   600 (as depicted in FIGS 13 and 14) as typically used with the remote isolation
   system.
           The lock members 291 (and in particular its slot 291 B) and 291 C will only
 5 be allowed to co-operate to form a lockout point 297 (as best depicted in FIG 12)
   through co-operation if authorised by master controller 50, and this will only occur
   if the correct remote isolation procedure (as summarised above) is initially
   followed.
           As shown in FIGS 2, 7 and 8, the equipment isolation switch 200 and
10 particularly the isolation switch 400 are initially in a "resting" state with flap 291
   and slot 293 (for accommodating the key 500 when it is in the isolated position)
   open and held captive against resting portion 240 of switch box 200 through a
   solenoid operated magnetic interlock as described below.
           When isolation is authorised following correct procedure and key 500 is
15 turned to the second ISOLATE position (as shown in FIG 9), flap 291 is released
   from its captive position enabling it to rotate about its hinge 291A and flap shaft
   310. This happens because a magnetic lock preventing rotation of hinge 291A is
   de-magnetised, on isolation, due to deactivation of the flap solenoid 301.        This
   enables flap 291 to rotate upward in clockwise direction (as indicated by FIGS 10
20 to 12, 15A and 15B) and finally into the locking position as shown in FIGS 12 to
   14.
           Further detail of the solenoid operated mechanical interlock is shown in
   FIGS 15A to 15C, noting that FIG 15C is a partial view omitting details of the
   isolation switch 400, replacing it with a general reference to isolation switch
25 location 400'.   In a "resting" position, flap solenoid 301 is energised by power
   supply to the switch box 200.      A plunger portion of the flap solenoid 301 is
   consequently located within a receptacle 319 of striker/positioning block 317 and
   this acts as a lock on rotation of flap shaft 310.         Flap 291 is held captive.
   Proximity sensors 315 monitor the position and generate an alarm signal if the
30 flap 291 moves unexpectedly from the captive position. On isolation, the plunger
   portion of solenoid 301 is released from receptacle 319 of striker/positioning block
   317. The lock is released and flap shaft 310, hinge 291A and flap 291 allowed to

                                             18
   rotate (as indicated by R in Figure 15A) into the locking position against the action
   of flap shaft return spring 318. Proximity sensors 315 also detect this situation.
           In locking position, flap 291 covers the isolation switch 400 though
   providing for the outer end 510 of the key 500 to extend through slot 293. When
 5 this occurs, slots 291B and 291C co-operate to form an aperture 297 or lockout
   point through which a hasp 600 is securely and correctly accommodated for
   lockout as shown in FIGS 13 and 14. This prevents movement or removal of key
   500 from isolation switch 400 and acts as a second key securing means. More
   than one operator may lockout and hasp 600 includes a number of apertures
10 600A allowing other personal locks to be applied.
           The master controller 50 of the remote isolation system properly
   deactivates flap solenoid 301 enabling lockout to occur as above described only
   when an unsuccessful try step (i.e. attempt to restart conveyor belt system 20) is
   first completed. Until that point, flap 291 is held captive in its resting position as
15 best seen in FIGS 7 and 8.
           Sensors, such as proximity sensors similar to sensors 315 described
   above, are used to monitor the position of the key 500 in isolation switch 400 and
   to ensure that various components (e.g. key 500, keeper plate 405 and flap 291
   (through sensors 315)) are correctly positioned when the system is in a "resting"
20 or NORMAL (energised) state or a "locked out" or "ISOLATE" condition.
   Corrective action may be initiated if deviation from the correct position is
   indicated. The system can also be configured to generate alert signals if such a
   scenario were to occur. Sensors can also be arranged to indicate any tampering
   with the flap 291 such that corrective action may be initiated if any tampering is
25 detected.
           Upon correct de-isolation being initiated, the flap 291 is rotated back to its
   resting position to again be held captive against resting block 240 through
   operation of the solenoid actuated magnetic interlock.
           The equipment isolation switch 400 is only operable when the key 500 is
30 engaged with it. Equally, the key 500 must be removed from the isolation switch
   400 when deactivation of the equipment isolation switch 200 is required. Control
   system or authorised personnel approval would be required prior to any such
   removal which, even then, is only permitted when the isolation switch 400 is in the

                                             19
   NORMAL condition. Importantly, key removal is not permitted without additional
   validation steps if the key switch 400 is in the ISOLATE condition. Deactivation
   would typically require other tasks to be completed before a remote isolation
   system is safely and completely removed from service and the equipment item in
 5 question can be re-energised for normal operation.       Completion of such tasks
   may involve the use of other keys, preferably rendered operable using the key
   exchange unit described         in the Applicant's  Australian  Provisional  Patent
   Application No. 2015902557, the contents of which are incorporated herein by
   reference.
10          A further embodiment of the invention is now described with reference to
   FIGS 17 and 18.       Isolation switch 400 may be comprised within a replaceable
   switch module advantageous under certain circumstances.           Plant safety is a
   paramount consideration and, for this reason, it is undesirable to provide
   duplicate keys 500 to operate isolation switch 400. Key 500 is provided with a
15 specific unique configuration of notches 520 which will only allow actuation of the
   illustrated isolation switch 400 for example by actuating pins within a cylinder of
   isolation switch 400 using a pin and tumbler lock principle. Accordingly, if key
   500 is lost from the switch, for example during an isolation system deactivation or
   bypass, no replacement is available.
20          However, in such circumstances, a module including isolation switch 400
   may be removed and replaced with a substitute switch module 900 including its
   corresponding actuating device following any required authorisation procedure.
   Switch module 900 includes a cylinder or barrel 905 including the isolation switch
   400 and a latch portion 910 including the switch locking mechanism 915. A key
25 (not shown) but having different configuration of notches than key 500 would also
   be provided. Barrel 905 also includes a different pin arrangement to the former
   switch module. However, both switch modules conveniently work on the known
   pin and tumbler principle which is accordingly not described further here.
            The original switch module may then be refurbished with a substitute key
30 500 (but with a different arrangement of notches 520) in a manner with
   substantially lesser risk than encountered when duplicate keys, including master
   keys, are provided.

                                             20
           Application of the isolation switch assembly as described above ensures
   that isolators do not de-energise, and that a lock flap associated with the isolation
   switch 400 is held captive until all isolation steps are verified, hence preventing
   any personal locks being attached until isolation is confirmed and safe
 5 maintenance or work conditions are confirmed.        Importantly, no lock points are
   provided on the isolation switch 400 or switch box 200 until an isolation has been
   effected.
           Furthermore, the isolation switch assembly facilitates a desirable two-stage
   process required to achieve lock-out by an operator and hence provides an
10 additional level of safety for the operator of the remote isolation system,
   Specifically, if a try step attempt to start the plant after a request to isolate is
   approved (i.e. restarting of the plant is unsuccessful as desired), the isolation
   switch 400 is then able to be turned to an ISOLATE position. When actuated, the
   isolation switch subsequently results in de-energisation of the solenoid which
15 retains the lock-out flap 291 which can then be rotated into engagement with the
   isolation switch 400 and key 500 and in turn provide the required lockout point for
   the operator.
           Modifications and variations to the equipment isolation switch of the
   present invention may be apparent to the skilled reader of this disclosure. Such
20 modifications and variations are deemed within the scope of the present
   invention. For example, the above discussion refers to isolation of conveyor belt
   systems at mine sites by isolating conveyor belt drive motors from an electrical
   energy supply. It will be understood however that different equipment may be
   isolated from different energy sources using the equipment isolation switch
25 described herein.
           Furthermore, while the control panel 700 has primarily been described as
   including a human machine interface (HMI) 710 with a touch screen 1265 and a
   series of buttons and lights (e.g. 740, 750, 760, 770, 780 etc) to enable an
   operator to request an isolation event, it should be noted that the control panel
30 700, and specifically the touch screen 1265, may be configured to provide greater
   control and more information about isolation system steps to an operator (or
   indeed full control and all information to do with the isolation system). That is, a
   more 'digitally' based input means (or indeed a totally digital system) may be

                                          21
  arranged for operation instead of an analogue or part analogue system as
  described herein to enable control of the equipment isolation system according to
  the present invention.
5

                                             22
CLAIMS:
1.      An equipment isolation switch assembly for use in a remote isolation system for
remotely isolating an equipment item comprising:
        an equipment isolation switch movable between a first position in which said
equipment item remains energized by an energy source and a second isolated position
causing said equipment item to be isolated from said energy source;
        a control system for controlling operation of said equipment isolation switch;
        an actuating device co-operable with the equipment isolation switch to move it
between said first and second positions when approved by the control system on
satisfaction of a series of permissives for an isolation process;
        wherein said isolation switch assembly includes at least one securing means for
securing said actuating device in co-operation with said equipment isolation switch
whenever in operative state; and
        wherein said equipment isolation switch assembly is configured to enable
deactivation of at least said equipment isolation switch on removal of the actuating
device from co-operation with the equipment isolation switch.
2.      An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in claim 1 wherein said
actuating device is a removable key.
3.      An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in claim 1 or 2 wherein said
actuating device is multi-functional being used to implement additional tasks in the
isolation system to actuating the equipment isolation switch.
4.      An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims wherein said actuating device is unique for the equipment isolation switch.
5.      An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in claim 4 wherein said
switch assembly comprises a replaceable switch module requiring replacement in case
of loss of the actuating device.
6.      An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims wherein said securing means holds the actuating device in co-operation with the

                                             23
equipment isolation switch through operation of a control system for the remote isolation
system.
7.      An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in claim 6 wherein said
control system prevents the actuating device from disengaging from co-operation with
the switch unless specific conditions arise.
8.      An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in claim 7 wherein said
actuating device is held captive to the switch unless the securing means is removed
when permitted by said control system.
9.      An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims wherein said series of permissives for said isolation process involves a first try
start step involving failure of an attempted restart of the equipment item and a second
step involving actuation of the securing means following said failed restart attempt, both
steps being controlled by the control system.
10.     An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims wherein said securing means includes a plurality of lock members engageable to
form an isolation lockout point.
11.     An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in claim 10 wherein at least
one lock member rotates relative to a further lock member to form the isolation lockout
point.
12.     An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in claim 10 or 11 wherein
said plurality of lock members includes a first lock member forming part of a housing of
said equipment isolation switch and a further lock member held captive to the housing
of the equipment isolation switch until, when the control system authorises a lockout,
the further lock member is released, thereby being actuated through movement into co
operation with the first lock member to together form an aperture which provides a
required lock out point.
13.     An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in any one of claims 10 to 12
wherein said     further lock member of said securing means comprises a plate lock

                                             24
member which, when positioned for isolation, partially or wholly covers the isolation
switch to prevent it being moved from the isolated position.
14.     An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in claim 13 wherein said
actuating device is a mechanical key and a retaining or keeper plate is installed as part
of the equipment isolation switch assembly following insertion of the key into the switch,
the plate having an aperture through which a portion of the key extends for manual
operation between the first and second positions, said aperture having insufficient
dimension to allow removal of the key once the keeper plate is installed.
15.     An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in claim 14 wherein said
keeper plate is locked into position by a lock preventing unauthorised removal.
16.     An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 15
including sensors for monitoring position of said further lock member and issuing an
alert signal where there is any variation from correct positioning.
17.     An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in any one of claims 11 to 16
including sensors for monitoring for tampering with a locked out equipment isolation
switch.
18.     An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding
claims wherein lockout of the equipment isolation switch causes release of an additional
actuating device selected from the group consisting of a key and equipment item for use
in, or following, an isolation procedure.
19.     An equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in claim 18 wherein said
actuating device removes a barrier preventing access to an equipment item under
normal operating conditions.
20.     A remote isolation system comprising a remote isolation station having an
equipment isolation switch assembly as claimed in any one of the preceding claims
optionally wherein said control system approves isolation on permissible request logged
by an operator at said remote isolation station.

      <removed-apn>     <removed-date>
       700                         1/20
               700
                       S, 900
260

      <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                 2/20
765

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                  3/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           4/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           5/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           6/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           7/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           8/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           9/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           10/20

       <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                                  11/20
291C

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           12/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           13/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           14/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                       15/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           16/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           17/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           18/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           19/20

<removed-apn>   <removed-date>
                           20/20

