   ABSTRACT
   The Utility Model relates to a biological buried sewage treatment facility. The buried
   tank body is composed of a water storage chamber, a biological-contact oxidation
   chamber and a sedimentation tank. One side of the buried tank body is connected to
 5 the water storage chamber through water inlet line. Grids are equipped in the cavity
   of the water storage chamber. The water storage chamber is connected to a
   biological-contact oxidation chamber through water collecting pipe. In the bottom
   of the inner cavity of biological-contact oxidation chamber, there is an aeration
   device, over which, mesh line biofilm colonization is set, and a contact-oxidation
10 unit is equipped above the mesh line biofilm colonization, one end of top of the
   aeration device passes through top of the buried tank body through perforated pipe
   and is connected to flange. There are vent holes on top side of the water storage
   chamber and the top side of the biological-contact oxidation chamber, and one side
   of the biological-contact oxidation chamber is connected to sedimentation tank
15 through water collecting pipe. The big filling specific surface area make the inside of
   tank have better oxygenation condition. The biological contact-oxidation method does
   not need sludge recirculation, thus there is no sludge bulking problem anymore. The
   aforesaid design makes the Utility Model occupy less area, need less investment and
   generate lower noise, have no odor and less impacted by climate change, convenient for
20 management and achieve high processing efficiency.
                                               9

    13\ 7 10     11 12   15
                            16
5
                            14
  2          9         3
          Figure 1

Our Ref: 81961nno
                                                                      P/00/009
                                                                 Regulation 3.2
                                AUSTRALIA
                               Patents Act 1990
         INNOVATION SPECIFICATION FOR AN INVENTION ENTITLED
Invention title:     Biological Buried Sewage Treatment Facility
Name of Applicant:   Jilin Academy of Environmental Sciences
Address for Service  A.P.T. Patent and Trade Mark Attorneys
                     PO Box 833
                     Blackwood, S.A. 5051
The invention is described in the following statement:

                        Biological Buried Sewage Treatment Facility
   Technical Field
   The Utility Model relates to a biological buried sewage treatment facility, which
 5 belongs to the field of sewage treatment facility.
   Background Art
   The facility has good application prospect in sewage treatment in small cities and towns
   where centralized treatment is difficult and in newly-built communities that have not
10 been covered by urban municipal pipe network. At present, the existing sewage treatment
   facilities often occupy large area, need big investment and generate great deal of noise,
   generally causing sludge bulking, thus being inconvenient for management and with low
   processing efficiency. Given the aforesaid status quo, the biological buried sewage
   treatment facility is provided.
15
   Summary of Invention
   The technical challenges for the utility model are to overcome existing defects and
   provide     a  biological  underground-buried-tank      sewage   treatment    facility. The
   characteristics of the facility are: The appearance design of the mesh line biofilm
20 colonization along with aeration device at the bottom of the facility, and the big filling
   specific surface area make the inside of tank have better oxygenation condition; the
   design of equipping chemical filling pipe at the top of sedimentation tank allows the
   biological contact-oxidation method does not need sludge recirculation, thus there is no
   sludge bulking problem anymore, and convenient for operation and management. The
25 aforesaid design makes the Utility Model convenient for operation and management,
   occupy less area, need less investment and generate lower noise, have no odor, less
   impacted by climate change and achieve high processing efficiency, having effectively
   settled the problems stated in the Background of Invention above.
   In order to solve the above technical defects, the following technical solutions are applied
30 in the Utility Model:
                                                2

   The Utility Model is a biological buried sewage treatment facility, including a buried
   tank body, the buried tank body is composed of a water storage chamber, a biological
   contact oxidation chamber and a sedimentation tank. One side of the buried tank body is
   connected to the water storage chamber through water inlet line. Grids are equipped in
 5 the cavity of the water storage chamber. The water storage chamber is connected to a
   biological-contact oxidation chamber through water collecting pipe. In the bottom of the
   inner cavity of biological-contact oxidation chamber, there is an aeration device, over
   which, mesh line biofilm colonization is set, and a contact-oxidation unit is equipped
   above the mesh line biofilm colonization, one end of top of the aeration device passes
10 through top of the buried tank body through perforated pipe and is connected to flange.
   There are vent holes on top side of the water storage chamber and the top side of the
   biological-contact oxidation chamber, and one side of the biological-contact oxidation
   chamber is connected to sedimentation tank through water collecting pipe, and drainage
   pipe is provided on one side of the sedimentation tank, and on top of the sedimentation
15 tank, there is reserved hole. And in the cavity of the reserve hole, chemical filling pipe is
   equipped.
   Furthermore, the outer wall of the buried tank body is attached with an anti-corrosion
   paint layer, and the inner wall of the buried tank body is attached with epoxy resin anti
   corrosion coating.
20 And, aeration holes are reserved on aeration device, and the aeration holes are
   equidistantly distributed.
   Besides, the characteristics of the biological buried sewage treatment facility
   described in Patent Claim 1 lies in the fact that DN300 model water inlet line is
   applied, DN100 model water for collecting pipe, DN32 model pipes are applied for
25 perforated pipe and flange plate, and DN100 Model for drainage pipe, the chemical
   filling pipe is set to DN50 model.
   In addition, polyacrylonitrile activated carbon fiber is used for reticulated biofilm.
   The beneficial effects of the Utility Model: The appearance design of the mesh line
   biofilm colonization along with aeration device at the bottom of the facility, and the big
30 filling specific surface area make the inside of tank have better oxygenation condition;
   the design of equipping chemical filling pipe at the top of sedimentation tank allows the
   biological contact-oxidation method does not need sludge recirculation, thus there is no
                                                3

   sludge bulking problem anymore, and convenient for operation and management. The
   aforesaid design makes the Utility Model convenient for operation and management,
   occupy less area, need less investment and generate lower noise, have no odor, less
   impacted by climate change and achieve high processing efficiency.
 5
   Brief Description of Drawings
   The appended drawings are used to provide a further understanding of the Utility Model
   and constitute a part of the Description. And together with the embodiment of the Utility
   Model, the appended drawings are used to explain the Utility Model, and do not
10 constitute to the Utility Model.
   Figure 1 is the section of a biological buried sewage treatment facility of the Utility
   Model.
   Figure 2 is the structure plan of a biological buried sewage treatment facility of the
   Utility Model.
15 Figure 3 is a top view of a biological buried sewage treatment facility of the Utility
   Model.
   Figure 4 is a front view of a biological buried sewage treatment facility of the Utility
   Model.
   The numerals in the figure: 1. buried tank body; 2. water storage chamber; 3.
20 biological-contact oxidation chamber; 4. sedimentation tank; 5. water inlet line; 6.
   Grids; 7. water collecting pipe; 8. aeration device; 9. mesh line biofilm colonization;
   10. contact-oxidation unit; 11. perforated pipe; 12. Flange; 13. vent holes; 14.
   sedimentation tank (drainage pipe); 15. reserved hole; 16. chemical filling pipe; 17.
   Drainage pipe.
25
   Detail Description of Embodiments
   The preferred embodiment of the Utility Model is described below with reference to the
   appended drawings. And it should be understood that the preferred embodiment
   described herein is only used to illustrate and explain the Utility Model and is not used to
30 limit the Utility Model.
                                                 4

   As shown in Figure 1 to Figure 4, the Utility Model includes a buried tank body 1, the
   buried tank body 1 is composed of a water storage chamber 2, a biological-contact
   oxidation chamber 3 and a sedimentation tank 4., One side of the buried tank body 1
   is connected to the water storage chamber 2 through water inlet line 5. Grids 6 are
 5 equipped in the cavity of the water storage chamber 2. The water storage chamber 2
   is connected to a biological-contact oxidation chamber 3 through water collecting
   pipe 7. In the bottom of the inner cavity of biological-contact oxidation chamber 3,
   there is an aeration device 8, over which, mesh line biofilm colonization 9 is set, and
   a contact-oxidation unit 10 is equipped above the mesh line biofilm colonization 9,
10 one end of top of the aeration device 8 passes through top of the buried tank body 1
   through perforated pipe 11 and is connected to flange 12. There are vent holes 13 on
   top side of the water storage chamber 2 and the top side of the biological-contact
   oxidation chamber 3, and one side of the biological-contact oxidation chamber 3 is
   connected to sedimentation tank 4 through water collecting pipe 7, and drainage pipe
15 14 is provided on one side of the sedimentation tank 4, and on top of the
   sedimentation tank 4, there is reserved hole 15. And in the cavity of the reserve hole
   15, chemical filling pipe (16) is provided at the, is equipped.
   The outer wall of the buried tank body 1 is attached with an anti-corrosion paint
   layer, and the inner wall of the buried tank body 1 is attached with epoxy resin anti
20 corrosion coating, which can extend service life of the buried tank body and reduce
   cost; aeration holes are reserved on aeration device 8, and the aeration holes are
   equidistantly distributed; the design can improve the oxygenation effect of the tank.
   DN300 model is applied for water inlet line 5, DN100 model water for collecting
   pipe 7, DN32 model pipes are applied for perforated pipe 11 and flange plate 12,
25 and DN100 Model for drainage pipe 17, DN50 model for the chemical filling pipe
   16; polyacrylonitrile activated carbon fiber is used for reticulated biofilm 9. The
   polyacrylonitrile   activated carbon fiber is PAN-ACF. PAN-ACF has higher
   adsorption efficiency and better removal effect for organics and ammonia nitrogen.
   When the Utility Model is in use, sewage water enters water storage chamber 2
30 through water inlet line 5, and is filtered by grids 6 and enters biological-contact
   oxidation chamber 3 after being extracted and through water collecting pipe 7; mesh
   line biofilm colonization 9 and contact-oxidation unit 10 absorb organic matters in
   the sewage water, then aeration device 8 conducts oxygenation; after that the sewage
                                              5

   water is transported to sedimentation tank 14 through water collecting pipe 7 for
   precipitation. Then flocculant is added by chemical filling pipe 16, and finally the
   sewage water is discharged through drainage pipe 17.
   The above stated content is a better embodiment of the Utility Model. Any technical
 5 personnel in the field relating to the Utility Model can make changes and modifications
   to the above embodiment. Therefore, the Utility Model is not limited to above-stated
   specific embodiment, and any obvious improvement, substitution or transformation made
   based on the Utility Model by any technical personnel in the field shall fall into the
   protection scope of the Utility Model.
10
                                                 6

   CLAIMS
         1. It is about a biological buried sewage treatment facility, including a buried
   tank body (1), the buried tank body (1) is composed of a water storage chamber (2),
   a biological-contact oxidation chamber (3) and a sedimentation tank (4). One side of
 5 the buried tank body (1) is connected to the water storage chamber (2) through water
   inlet line (5). Grids (6) are equipped in the cavity of the water storage chamber (2).
   The water storage chamber (2) is connected to a biological-contact oxidation
   chamber (3) through water collecting pipe (7). In the bottom of the inner cavity of
   biological-contact oxidation chamber (3), there is an aeration device (8), over which,
10 mesh line biofilm colonization (9) is set, and a contact-oxidation unit (10) is
   equipped above the mesh line biofilm colonization (9), one end of top of the aeration
   device (8) passes through top of the buried tank body (1) through perforated pipe (11)
   and is connected to flange (12). There are vent holes (13) on top side of the water
   storage chamber (2) and the top side of the biological-contact oxidation chamber (3),
15 and one side of the biological-contact oxidation chamber (3) is connected to
   sedimentation tank (4) through water collecting pipe (7), and drainage pipe (14) is
   provided on one side of the sedimentation tank (4), and on top of the sedimentation
   tank (4), there is reserved hole (15). And in the cavity of the reserve hole (15),
   chemical filling pipe (16) is equipped.
20      2. The characteristics of the biological buried sewage treatment facility
   described in Patent Claim 1 lies in the fact that the outer wall of the buried tank body
   (1) is attached with an anti-corrosion paint layer, and the inner wall of the buried
   tank body (1) is attached with epoxy resin anti-corrosion coating.
         3. The characteristics of the biological buried sewage treatment facility
25 described in Patent Claim 1 lies in the fact that aeration holes are reserved on
   aeration device (8), and the aeration holes are equidistantly distributed.
        4. The characteristics of the biological buried sewage treatment facility
   described in Patent Claim 1 lies in the fact that DN300 model water inlet line (5) is
   applied, DN100 model water for collecting pipe (7), DN32 model pipes are applied
30 for perforated pipe (11) and flange plate (12), and DN100 Model for drainage pipe
   (14), DN50 model for the chemical filling pipe (16).
         5. The characteristics of the biological buried sewage treatment facility
                                              7

described in Patent Claim 1 lies in the fact that polyacrylonitrile activated carbon
fiber is used for reticulated biofilm (9).
                                           8

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 1

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 2

           <removed-apn>   <removed-date>
Figure 3

