   Abstract
   This is disclosed an electronic method of gaming.               The
   method comprises selecting a symbol for display at each
 5 display position of a plurality of sets of display
   positions (710), modifying the displayed symbols by
   interchanging a first set of symbols displayed at a first
   set of display positions with a second set of symbols
   displayed at a second set of display positions         (740), and
10 determining whether to make an award based on the symbols
   displayed at the plurality of sets of display positions as
   modified 750.  There is also disclosed a gaming system, a
   game controller and a gaming machine corresponding to the
   electronic method.
15
                                              10125018_1(GHMattes) P83290.AU.329/03/2018

                                                     6/7
                                                  New game
                                                      700
                   Select symbols for columns of display positions
                                                     710
                  Display symbols at columns of display positions
                                  yrnars
                             Dispay                  720
                                                       I
                                Make an award depending on the
.-------.--------                             displayed symbols
                                                     730
                              Modifying the displayed symbols by
                     Interchanging the symbols displayed at two
                   or more different columns of display positions
                                                     740
                                Make an award depending on the
                                 displayed symbols as modified
                                                     750
                .. ............   _..........     End gam e
                                                     760
                                               Figure 7

   Title
      A METHOD OF GAMING, A GAMING SYSTEM, AND A GAME CONTROLLER
 5 Related Application
   This application is a divisional application of Australian
   application no. <removed-apn> which in turn is a divisional
   application of Australian application no. 2014202587 which in
10 turn is a divisional application of Australian application
   no. 2011202442.       The disclosures of each of these
   applications are incorporated herein by reference.
   Field
15
   The present invention relates to a method of gaming, a gaming
   system, and a game controller.
   Background
20
   In many gaming venues, gaming systems are provided in the
   form of gaming machines.       A popular game available on such
   gaming machines is a spinning-reel type game. In a 5 X 3
   spinning-reel type game, five reels are displayed to a
25 player, each of the reels corresponding to a column of three
   display positions.       Typically, a player initiates a play of
   the game by placing a wager and causing all the reels to
   spin.       When the spinning reels stop, they reveal a symbol for
   each display position of each reel, and an award is provided
30 to the player if the displayed symbols comprise a winning
   symbol combination.
   While such gaming systems provide players with enjoyment,       a
   need exists for alternative      gaming systems in order to
35 maintain or increase player enjoyment.
   Summary of the Invention
   In    a first   aspect, the invention provides an electronic
40 method of gaming comprising:

                                - 2
         selecting a symbol for display at each display position
   of a plurality of sets of display positions;
         modifying the displayed symbols by interchanging a
   first set of symbols displayed at a first set of display
 5 positions with a second set of symbols displayed at a second
   set of display positions; and
         determining whether to make an award based on the
   symbols displayed at the plurality of sets of display
   positions as modified.
10
   In an embodiment, each set of display positions comprises a
   column of display positions.
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises determining
15 whether to make another award based on the symbols displayed
   at the plurality of sets of display positions prior to
   modifying the displayed symbols.
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises determining
20 whether a modification condition is met and modifying the
   displayed symbols upon the modification condition being met.
   In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an award
   is to be made.
25
   In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an award
   is not to be made.
   In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an ante
30 bet has been made.
   In an embodiment, the determination of whether the
   modification condition is met is performed randomly.
35 In an embodiment, after it has been determined that awards
   may be made both before and after modification, the method
   further comprises displaying an option to select either the
   award determined before modification or the award determined
   after modification.
40

                                - 3
   In an embodiment, modifying the displayed symbols further
   comprises interchanging a third set of symbols displayed at a
   third set of display positions with a fourth set of symbols
   displayed at a fourth set of display positions.
 5
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises:   conducting
   a further round of symbol modification involving two
   different sets of symbols displayed at two different sets of
   display positions; and
10       determining whether to make an award based on the
   symbols displayed at the plurality of sets of display
   positions as twice modified.
   In an embodiment, the method further comprises selecting one
15 of the plurality of sets of display positions to be the first
   set of display positions and another one of the plurality of
   sets of display positions to be the second set of display
   positions.
20 In an embodiment, the first set of display positions and the
   second set of display positions are selected randomly.
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols displayed at different display positions
25 swapping with one another.
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols hopping from one display position to
   another display position.
30
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols sliding from one display position to
   another display position.
35 In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols flipping from one symbol to another
   symbol.
   In a second aspect, the invention provides a gaming system
40 comprising:

                               -4
         a display;
         a symbol selector arranged to select a symbol for
   display at each display position of a plurality of sets of
   display positions on the display;
 5       a display modifier arranged to modify the displayed
   symbols by interchanging a first set of symbols displayed at
   a first set of display positions with a second set of symbols
   displayed at a second set of display positions; and
         an award determiner arranged to determine whether to
lo make an award based on the symbols displayed at the plurality
   of sets of display positions as modified.
   In an embodiment, each set of display positions is displayed
   as a column of display positions on the display.
15
   In an embodiment, the award determiner is arranged to
   determine whether to make an award based on the symbols
   displayed at the plurality of sets of display positions prior
   to modification of the displayed symbols.
20
   In an embodiment, the display modifier comprises a
   modification condition determiner arranged to determine
   whether a modification condition is met and the display
   modifier is arranged to modify the displayed symbols upon the
25 modification condition being met.
   In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an award
   is to be made.
30 In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an award
   is not to be made.
   In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an ante
   bet has been made.
35
   In an embodiment, the display modifier is arranged to
   randomly determine whether the modification condition is met.
   In an embodiment, after the award determiner has determined
40 that awards may be made both before and after modification,

                                - 5
   an option to select either the award determined before
   modification or the award determined after modification is
   displayed on the display.
 5 In an embodiment, the display modifier is arranged to further
   modify the displayed symbols by interchanging a third set of
   symbols displayed at a third set of display positions with a
   fourth set of symbols displayed at a fourth set of display
   positions.
10
   In an embodiment, the display modifier is arranged to conduct
   a further round of symbol modification involving two
   different sets of symbols displayed at two different sets of
   display positions, and wherein the award determiner is
15 arranged to determine whether to make an award based on the
   symbols displayed at the plurality of sets of display
   positions as twice modified.
   In an embodiment, the display modifier comprises a display
20 position selector arranged to select one of the plurality of
   sets of display positions to be the first set of display
   positions and another one of the plurality of sets of display
   positions to be the second set of display positions.
25 In an embodiment, the display position selector is arranged
   to select the first set of display positions and the second
   set of display positions randomly.
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
30 displaying symbols displayed at different display positions
   swapping with one another on the display.
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols hopping from one display position to
35 another display position on the display.
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols sliding from one display position to
   another display position on the display.
40

                                - 6
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols flipping from one symbol to another symbol
   on the display.
 5 In a third aspect, the invention provides a game controller
   for a gaming system, the game controller configured to:
         select a symbol for display at each display position of
   a plurality of sets of display positions on a display;
         modify the displayed symbols by interchanging a first
10 set of symbols displayed at a first set of display positions
   with a second set of symbols displayed at a second set of
   display positions; and
         determine whether to make an award based on the symbols
   displayed at the plurality of sets of display positions as
15 modified.
   In an embodiment, each set of display positions comprises a
   column of display positions.
20 In an embodiment, the game controller is configured to
   determine whether to make another award based on the symbols
   displayed at the plurality of sets of display positions prior
   to modifying the displayed symbols.
25 In an embodiment, the game controller is configured to
   determine whether a modification condition is met and to
   modify the displayed symbols upon the modification condition
   being met.
30 In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an award
   is to be made.
   In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an award
   is not to be made.
35
   In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an ante
   bet has been made.
   In an embodiment, the determination of whether the
40 modification condition is met is performed randomly.

   In an embodiment, the game controller is configured to, after
   it has been determined that awards may be made both before
   and after modification, display an option to select either
 5 the award determined before modification or the award
   determined after modification.
   In an embodiment, modifying the displayed symbols further
   comprises interchanging a third set of symbols displayed at a
10 third set of display positions with a fourth set of symbols
   displayed at a fourth set of display positions.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is configured to:
         conduct a further round of symbol modification
15 involving two different sets of symbols displayed at two
   different sets of display positions; and
         determine whether to make an award based on the symbols
   displayed at the plurality of sets of display positions as
   twice modified.
20
   In an embodiment, the game controller is configured to select
   one of the plurality of sets of display positions to be the
   first set of display positions and another one of the
   plurality of sets of display positions to be the second set
25 of display positions.
   In an embodiment, the first set of display positions and the
   second set of display positions are selected randomly.
30 In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols displayed at different display positions
   swapping with one another.
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
35 displaying symbols hopping from one display position to
   another display position.
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols sliding from one display position to
40 another display position.

    In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
    displaying symbols flipping from one symbol to another
    symbol.
  5
    In a fourth aspect, the invention provides a gaming machine
    comprising:
          a display; and
          a game controller comprising:
10            a symbol selector arranged to select a symbol for
    display at each display position of a plurality of sets of
    display positions on the display;
              a display modifier arranged to modify the displayed
    symbols by interchanging a first set of symbols displayed at
15  a first set of display positions with a second set of symbols
    displayed at a second set of display positions; and
              an award determiner arranged to determine whether
    to make an award based on the symbols displayed at the
    plurality of sets of display positions as modified.
20
    In an embodiment, each set of display positions comprises a
    column of display positions.
    In an embodiment, the game controller is configured to
25  determine whether to make another award based on the symbols
    displayed at the plurality of sets of display positions prior
    to modifying the displayed symbols.
    In an embodiment, the game controller is configured to
30  determine whether a modification condition is met and to
    modify the displayed symbols upon the modification condition
    being met.
    In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an award
35  is to be made.
    In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an award
    is not to be made.
40  In an embodiment, the modification condition is that an ante

                               -9
   bet has been made.
   In an embodiment, the determination of whether the
   modification condition is met is performed randomly.
 5
   In an embodiment, the game controller is configured to, after
   it has been determined that awards may be made both before
   and after modification, display an option to select either
   the award determined before modification or the award
10 determined after modification.
   In an embodiment, modifying the displayed symbols further
   comprises interchanging a third set of symbols displayed at a
   third set of display positions with a fourth set of symbols
15 displayed at a fourth set of display positions.
   In an embodiment, the game controller is configured to:
         conduct a further round of symbol modification
   involving two different sets of symbols displayed at two
20 different sets of display positions; and
         determine whether to make an award based on the symbols
   displayed at the plurality of sets of display positions as
   twice modified.
25 In an embodiment, the game controller is configured to select
   one of the plurality of sets of display positions to be the
   first set of display positions and another one of the
   plurality of sets of display positions to be the second set
   of display positions.
30
   In an embodiment, the first set of display positions and the
   second set of display positions are selected randomly.
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
35 displaying symbols displayed at different display positions
   swapping with one another.
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols hopping from one display position to
40 another display position.

                               - 10
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols sliding from one display position to
   another display position.
 5
   In an embodiment, the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols flipping from one symbol to another
   symbol.
10 In a fifth aspect, the invention provides computer program
   code which when executed implements the above electronic
   method.
   In a sixth aspect, the invention provides a tangible computer
15 readable medium comprising the above program code.
   In a seventh aspect, the invention provides a data signal
   comprising the above program code.
20 In an eighth aspect, the invention extends to transmitting
   the above program code.
   Brief Description of Drawings
25 An exemplary embodiment of the invention will now be
   described with reference to the accompanying drawings in
   which:
   Figure 1 is a block diagram of the core components of a
30 gaming system;
   Figure 2 is a perspective view of a stand alone gaming
   machine;
35 Figure 3 is a block diagram of the functional components of a
   gaming machine;
   Figure 4 is a schematic diagram of the functional components
   of a memory;
40

                               - 11
   Figure 5 is a schematic diagram of a network gaming system;
   Figure 6 is a further block diagram of a gaming system;
 5 Figure 7 is a flow chart of an embodiment; and
   Figures 8A and 8B are diagrammatic representations of an
   example of a game.
10 Detailed Description
   Referring to the drawings, there is shown a gaming system
   arranged to implement a game wherein a plurality of symbols
   are selected and displayed at a plurality of sets of display
15 positions.  During game play, the displayed symbols are
   modified by interchanging a first set of symbols displayed at
   a first set of display positions with a second set of symbols
   displayed at a second set of display positions.
20 Advantageously, the gaming system provides an alternative or
   additional opportunity to win.
   General construction of gaming system
25 The gaming system can take a number of different forms.   In a
   first form, a stand alone gaming machine is provided wherein
   all or most components required for implementing the game are
   present in a player operable gaming machine.
30 In a second form, a distributed architecture is provided
   wherein some of the components required for implementing the
   game are present in a player operable gaming machine and some
   of the components required for implementing the game are
   located remotely relative to the gaming machine.  For
35 example, a "thick client" architecture may be used wherein
   part of the game is executed on a player operable gaming
   machine and part of the game is executed remotely, such as by
   a gaming server; or a "thin client" architecture may be used
   wherein most of the game is executed remotely such as by a
40 gaming server and a player operable gaming machine is used

                                -   12
   only to display audible and/or visible gaming information to
   the player and receive gaming inputs from the player.
   However, it will be understood that other arrangements are
 5 envisaged.   For example, an architecture may be provided
   wherein a gaming machine is networked to a gaming server and
   the respective functions of the gaming machine and the gaming
   server are selectively modifiable.     For example, the gaming
   system may operate in stand alone gaming machine mode, "thick
10 client" mode or "thin client" mode depending on the game
   being played, operating conditions, and so on. Other
   variations will be apparent to persons skilled in the art.
   Irrespective of the form, the gaming system has several core
15 components.   At the broadest level, the core components are a
   player interface 50 and a game controller 60 as illustrated
   in Figure 1.   The player interface is arranged to enable
   manual interaction between a player and the gaming system and
   for this purpose includes the input/output components
20 required for the player to enter instructions to play the
   game and observe the game outcomes.
   Components of the player interface may vary from embodiment
   to embodiment but will typically include a credit mechanism
25 52 to enable a player to input credits and receive payouts,
   one or more displays 54, a game play mechanism 56 including
   one or more input devices that enable a player to input game
   play instructions  (e.g. to place a wager),   and one or more
   speakers 58.
30
   The game controller 60 is in data communication with the
   player interface and typically includes a processor 62 that
   processes the game play instructions in accordance with game
   play rules and outputs game play outcomes to the display.
35 Typically, the game play rules are stored as program code in
   a memory 64 but can also be hardwired. Herein the term
   "processor" is used to refer generically to any device that
   can process game play instructions in accordance with game
   play rules and may include:    a microprocessor,
40 microcontroller, programmable logic device or other

                                 -   13
   computational device, a general purpose computer       (e.g. a PC)
   or a server.   That is a processor may be provided by any
   suitable logic circuitry for receiving inputs, processing
   them in accordance with instructions stored in memory         and
 5 generating outputs   (for example on the display).      Such
   processors are sometimes also referred to as central
   processing units  (CPUs). Most processors are general purpose
   units, however, it is also know to provide a specific purpose
   processor using an application specific integrated circuit
10  (ASIC) or a field programmable gate array (FPGA).
   A gaming system in the form of a stand alone gaming machine
   10 is illustrated in Figure 2.       The gaming machine 10
   includes a console 12 having a display 14 on which are
15 displayed representations of a game 16 that can be played by
   a player.   A mid-trim 20 of the gaming machine 10 houses a
   bank of buttons 22 for enabling a player to interact with the
   gaming machine, in particular during game play.       The mid-trim
   20 also houses a credit input mechanism 24 which in this
20 example includes a coin input chute 24A and a bill collector
   24B.   Other credit input mechanisms may also be employed, for
   example, a card reader for reading a smart card, debit card
   or credit card.   Other gaming machines may configure for
   ticket in such that they have a ticket reader for reading
25 tickets having a value and crediting the player based on the
   face value of the ticker.    A player marketing module      (not
   shown) having a reading device may also be provided for the
   purpose of reading a player tracking device, for example as
   part of a loyalty program.      The player tracking device may be
30 in the form of a card, flash drive or any other portable
   storage medium capable of being read by the reading device.
   In some embodiments, the player marketing module may provide
   an additional credit mechanism, either by transferring
   credits to the gaming machine from credits stored on the
35 player tracking device or by transferring credits from a
   player account in  data communication with the player
   marketing module.
   A top box 26 may carry artwork 28, including for example pay
40 tables and details of bonus awards and other information or

                               - 14
   images relating to the game.   Further artwork and/or
   information may be provided on a front panel 29 of the
   console 12.  A coin tray 30 is mounted beneath the front
   panel 29 for dispensing cash payouts from the gaming machine
 5 10.
   The display 14 shown in Figure 2 is in the form of a video
   display unit, particularly a cathode ray tube screen device.
   Alternatively, the display 14 may be a liquid crystal
10 display, plasma screen, any other suitable video display
   unit, or the visible portion of an electromechanical device.
   The top box 26 may also include a display, for example a
   video display unit, which may be of the same type as the
   display 14, or of a different type.
15
   Figure 3 shows a block diagram of operative components of a
   typical gaming machine which may be the same as or different
   to the gaming machine of Figure 2.
20 The gaming machine 100 includes a game controller 101 having
   a processor 102 mounted on a circuit board.   Instructions and
   data to control operation of the processor 102 are stored in
   a memory 103, which is in data communication with the
   processor 102.  Typically, the gaming machine 100 will
25 include both volatile and non-volatile memory and more than
   one of each type of memory, with such memories being
   collectively represented by the memory 103.
   The gaming machine has hardware meters 104 for purposes
30 including ensuring regulatory compliance and monitoring
   player credit, an input/output (I/0) interface 105 for
   communicating with peripheral devices of the gaming machine
   100.  The input/output interface 105 and/or the peripheral
   devices may be intelligent devices with their own memory for
35 storing associated instructions and data for use with the
   input/output interface or the peripheral devices.   A random
   number generator module 113 generates random numbers for use
   by the processor 102.  Persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that the reference to random numbers includes
40 pseudo-random numbers.

                               - 15
   In the example shown in Figure 3, a player interface 120
   includes peripheral devices that communicate with the game
   controller 101 including one or more displays 106, a touch
 5 screen and/or buttons 107  (which provide a game play
   mechanism), a card and/or ticket reader 108, a printer 109, a
   bill acceptor and/or coin input mechanism 110 and a coin
   output mechanism 111.  Additional hardware may be included as
   part of the gaming machine 100, or hardware may be omitted as
10 required for the specific implementation.   For example, while
   buttons or touch screens are typically used in gaming
   machines to allow a player to place a wager and initiate a
   play of a game any input device that enables the player to
   input game play instructions may be used.   For example, in
15 some gaming machines a mechanical handle is used to initiate
   a play of the game.
   In addition, the gaming machine 100 may include a
   communications interface, for example a network card 112.
20 The network card may, for example, send status information,
   accounting information or other information to a bonus
   controller, central controller,  server or database and
   receive data or commands from the bonus controller, central
   controller, server or database.   In embodiments employing a
25 player marketing module, communications over a network may be
   via player marketing module -  i.e. the player marketing
   module may be in data communication with one or more of the
   above devices and communicate with it on behalf of the gaming
   machine.
30
   Figure 4 shows a block diagram of the main components of an
   exemplary memory 103.  The memory 103 includes RAM 103A,
   EPROM 103B and a mass storage device 103C.   The RAM 103A
   typically temporarily holds program files for execution by
35 the processor 102 and related data.   The EPROM 103B may be a
   boot ROM device and/or may contain some system or game
   related code.  The mass storage device 103C is typically used
   to store game programs, the integrity of which may be
   verified and/or authenticated by the processor 102 using
40 protected code from the EPROM 103B or elsewhere.

                               - 16
   It is also possible for the operative components of the
   gaming machine 100 to be distributed, for example
   input/output devices 106,107,108,109,110,111 to be provided
 5 remotely from the game controller 101.
   Figure 5 shows a gaming system 200 in accordance with an
   alternative embodiment.  The gaming system 200 includes a
   network 201, which for example may be an Ethernet network.
10 Gaming machines 202, shown arranged in three banks 203 of two
   gaming machines 202 in Figure 5, are connected to the network
   201.  The gaming machines 202 provide a player operable
   interface and may be the same as the gaming machines 10,100
   shown in Figures 2 and 3, or may have simplified
15 functionality depending on the requirements for implementing
   game play.  While banks 203 of two gaming machines are
   illustrated in Figure 5, banks of one, three or more gaming
   machines are also envisaged.
20 One or more displays 204 may also be connected to the network
   201.  For example, the displays 204 may be associated with
   one or more banks 203 of gaming machines.  The displays 204
   may be used to display representations associated with game
   play on the gaming machines 202, and/or used to display other
25 representations, for example promotional or informational
   material.
   In a thick client embodiment, game server 205 implements part
   of the game played by a player using a gaming machine 202 and
30 the gaming machine 202 implements part of the game.  With
   this embodiment, as both the game server and the gaming
   device implement part of the game, they collectively provide
   a game controller.  A database management server 206 may
   manage storage of game programs and associated data for
35 downloading or access by the gaming devices 202 in a database
   206A.  Typically, if the gaming system enables players to
   participate in a Jackpot game, a Jackpot server 207 will be
   provided to perform accounting functions for the Jackpot
   game.  A loyalty program server 212 may also be provided.
40

                                -  17
   In a thin client embodiment, game server 205 implements most
   or all of the game played by a player using a gaming machine
   202 and the gaming machine 202 essentially provides only the
   player interface.  With this embodiment, the game server 205
 5 provides the game controller.     The gaming machine will
   receive player instructions, pass these to the game server
   which will process them and return game play outcomes to the
   gaming machine for display.    In a thin client embodiment, the
   gaming machines could be computer terminals, e.g. PCs running
10 software that provides a player interface operable using
   standard computer input and output components.     Other
   client/server configurations are possible, and further
   details of a client/server architecture can be found in WO
   2006/052213 and PCT/SE2006/000559, the disclosures of which
15 are incorporated herein by reference.
   Servers are also typically provided to assist in the
   administration of the gaming network 200, including for
   example a gaming floor management server 208, and a licensing
20 server 209 to monitor the use of licenses relating to
   particular games.  An administrator terminal 210 is provided
   to allow an administrator to run the network 201 and the
   devices connected to the network.
25 The gaming system 200 may communicate with other gaming
   systems, other local networks, for example a corporate
   network, and/or a wide area network such as the Internet, for
   example through a firewall 211.
30 Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in accordance
   with known techniques, functionality at the server side of
   the network may be distributed over a plurality of different
   computers.  For example, elements may be run as a single
   "engine" on one server or a separate server may be provided.
35 For example, the game server 205 could run a random generator
   engine.  Alternatively, a separate random number generator
   server could be provided.   Further, persons skilled in the
   art will appreciate that a plurality of game servers could be
   provided to run different games or a single game server may
40 run a plurality of different games as required by the

                               - 18
   terminals.
   Further detail of gaming system
 5 Figure 6 shows the functional components of an example of the
   gaming system.  As shown in the figure, a game controller 60
   comprising a processor 62 is arranged to implement a number
   of modules based on program code and data stored in memory 64
   so as to implement a game where a plurality of symbols are
10 selected and displayed at a plurality of sets of display
   positions, and where during game play, the displayed symbols
   are modified by interchanging a first set of symbols
   displayed at a first set of display positions with a second
   set of symbols displayed at a second set of display
15 positions.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the modules
   are typically implemented using a processor based on program
   code and data stored in memory but that one or more of the
20 modules could alternatively be implemented in some other way,
   for example by a dedicated circuit.
   In this example, the game is a spinning-reel type game
   comprising a number of columns of display positions
25 corresponding to respective ones of a plurality of reels.
   Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that such a
   spinning-reel type game may vary in terms of the number of
   columns or the number of display positions per column.   For
   example, the game may be a 4 X 6 spinning-reel type game
30 comprising four columns, each column having 6 vertically
   adjacent display positions; a 5 X 3 spinning-reel type game
   comprising five columns, each column having 3 vertically
   adjacent display positions etc.
35 It is envisaged that the spinning-reel type game can be a
   line-based game or a reel-based game.   In a line-based game,
   a player's win entitlement is based on how many win lines the
   player plays in each game (for example, a minimum of one win
   line up to the maximum number of win lines allowed by the
40 game) and how much they wager per line.   Such win lines are

                                - 19
   typically formed by a combination of symbol display
   positions, one from each reel, the symbol display positions
   being located relative to one another such that they form a
   line.  Persons skilled in the art will appreciate that in
 5 some line-based games, the player's win entitlement may not
   be strictly limited to the lines they have selected, for
   example, "scatter" pays can be awarded independently of a
   player's selection of pay lines and can be an inherent part
   of a win entitlement.
10
   In a reel-based game, a player obtains a win entitlement by
   selecting a number of reels to play and an amount to wager
   per reel.  Such games are marketed under the trade name "Reel
   Power" by Aristocrat Leisure Industries Pty Ltd.    The
15 selection of the reel means that each displayed symbol of the
   reel can be substituted for a symbol at one or more
   designated display positions.    In other words, all symbols
   displayed at symbol display positions corresponding to a
   selected reel can be used to form symbol combinations with
20 symbols displayed at a designated, symbol display positions
   of the other reels.   For example, if there are five reels and
   three symbol display positions for each reel such that the
   symbol display positions comprise three rows of five symbol
   display positions, the symbols displayed in the centre row
25 are used for non-selected reels.    As a result, the total
   number of ways to win is determined by multiplying the number
   of active display positions of each reels, the active display
   positions being all display positions of each selected reel
   and the designated display position of the non-selected
30 reels.  Thus, for a 5 X 3 spinning-reel type game having five
   reels and fifteen display positions, there can be 243 ways to
   win.
   In Figure 6, the gaming system comprises a player interface
35 50 having a display 54 arranged to display to a player a
   symbol in each of a plurality of sets of display positions of
   the game.  In the embodiment, each set of display positions
   corresponds to one of the reels.    For example, on a 5 X 3
   spinning-reel type game, a set of display positions can be
40 the 3 vertically adjacent symbols of a reel etc.

                                - 20
   In this embodiment, the game controller 60 also includes
   memory 64 comprising game code 646 for implementing the
   modules.  Memory 64 also includes, for use by the modules,
 5 symbol data 642, display data 644 and award data 648.    The
   symbol data 642 comprises a plurality of symbols that may be
   selected for display on display 54 during a game.    The
   display data 644 comprises one or more predetermined sets of
   display positions that may be selected during a game.    The
10 award data 648 comprises a plurality of awards that may be
   made.
   Examples of awards include monetary prizes, bonus credits,
   feature games etc.   Types of feature games include:  those
15 where a series of free game events are awarded such as free
   games or re-spins  (where some reels are held while others are
   re-spun); games where the symbols on the reel are changed;
   and "second screen" games where game play is totally
   different to the base game, for example where the player
20 makes selections in a "pick a box type" game.
   The modules implemented by the processor 62 include a Random
   Number Generator (RNG) 622 and a display controller 629.     The
   Random Number Generator (RNG) 622 is arranged to generate
25 random numbers (including pseudo-random numbers) for use by
   the other modules.   Persons skilled in the art will
   appreciate that the RNG 622 may in another example be
   implemented in a separate device, for example, in a Random
   Number Generator server.   The display controller 629 is
30 arranged to communicate with the player interface 50 to
   control the display 54 of the player interface 50.
   In addition to the display controller 629 and the RNG 622,
   the modules implemented by the processor 62 include a symbol
35 selector 623, a display modifier 624 and an award determiner
   628.
   The symbol selector 623 is arranged to select a symbol for
   display on display 54 at each of the display positions of the
40 game.  In this embodiment, the symbol selector 623 is

                               - 21
   arranged to select each symbol from symbol data 642 stored in
   memory 642.  The manner in which the symbol selector 623
   selects a symbol may be carried out in a variety of ways.
   For example, the symbol data 642 can specify a sequence of
 5 symbols for each reel such that the symbol selector 623 can
   select all of the symbols of a reel by selecting a stopping
   position in the sequence.  In one example, three symbols of
   each of five reels may be displayed such that symbols are
   selected for display at fifteen display positions on display
10 54.  It is known to use a probability table stored in memory
   64 to vary the odds of a particular stop position being
   selected.
   The display modifier 624 is arranged to modify the displayed
15 symbols by interchanging one or more sets of the symbols
   displayed in the plurality of display positions with another
   one or more sets of the symbols displayed in the plurality of
   display positions.  For example, on a 5 X 3 spinning-reel
   type game, the display modifier 624 can modify the displayed
20 symbols of two reels by interchanging the symbols of the
   left-most reel with the symbols of the middle reel.   In
   another example, the display modifier 624 can modify four
   reels of displayed symbols by interchanging the symbols of
   the left-most reel with the symbols of the middle reel and
25 the symbols of the right-most reel with the symbols of the
   second-left-most reel.  In some embodiments, the display
   modifier 624 may modify the displayed symbols more than once.
   For example, after the display modifier 624 has performed a
   first round of modification, the display modifier 624 can
30 perform a second round of modification to modify the
   displayed symbols again by interchanging a further one or
   more sets of symbols displayed in the plurality of display
   positions with another further one or more sets of symbols
   displayed in the plurality of display positions as modified.
35
   In the embodiment, the display modifier 625 is arranged to
   modify the displayed symbols using a display position
   selector 625 and a modification condition determiner 626.
40 The modification condition determiner 626 is arranged to

                               - 22
   determine whether a modification condition is met.   The
   display modifier 694 is arranged to modify the displayed
   symbols upon the modification condition being met.   The
   modification condition can be based on one or more game
 5 conditions or can be random.   Examples of a modification
   condition based on game conditions include: whether an ante
   bet has been made by a player, whether an award is to be made
   to a player based on the symbols displayed on the plurality
   of display positions prior to modification of the displayed
10 symbols, whether no award is made to a player based on the
   symbols displayed on the plurality of display positions prior
   to modification of the displayed symbols, whether a certain
   sized wager has been made by a player, whether a player has
   selected all the win lines of a game, whether a player has
15 played sufficient games, whether a player is a member of a
   loyalty program etc.  In other embodiments, the modification
   condition determiner 626 determines whether a modification is
   met randomly (for example, based on random numbers or pseudo
   random numbers generated by the RNG 622).
20
   The display position selector 625 is arranged to select, from
   the plurality of display positions of the game, sets of
   display positions to be modified.   Depending on the
   implementation, the display position selector 625 can select
25 the sets of display positions either based on predetermined
   display data 644 stored in memory 64 or randomly based on
   random numbers or pseudo random numbers generated by the RNG
   622.
30 In the embodiment, the award determiner 628 is arranged to
   determine whether to make an award based on the symbols
   displayed at the plurality of sets of display positions prior
   to the display modifier 624 modifying the displayed symbols
   selected by the symbol selector 623.   In addition, the award
35 determiner 623 is arranged to determine whether to make an
   award based on the symbols displayed at the plurality of sets
   of display positions as modified.   The award determiner 623
   is also arranged to determine whether to make an award based
   on the symbols displayed at the plurality of sets of display
40 positions as further modified.   For example, the award

                               -   23
   determiner 628 may make an award to a player incrementally,
   each time after the displayed symbols have been modified.
   The award determiner 628 determines whether the displayed
   symbols include on a selected win line   (or at symbol
 5 positions covered by reel selections) a winning combination.
   Possible winning combinations are stored as a pay table in
   the award data 648.
   As stated previously, the display controller 629 is arranged
10 to control the display 54.    The display controller 629 is
   arranged to control the display 54 based on communication
   from the symbol selector 623, the display modifier 624 and/or
   the award determiner 628.  For example, the display
   controller 629 can control the display 54 to: display the
15 symbols selected by the symbol selector 623 in the plurality
   of display positions, display the symbols as modified by the
   display modifier 624, display that an award is to be made
   based on a determination by the award determiner 628, display
   an option to allow a player to use an input device    (such as
20 the game play mechanism 56) of the player interface 50 to
   select either an award determined before modification of
   symbols or an award determined after modification of symbols
   if the award determiner 623 has determined that awards may be
   made both before and after modification of symbols etc.
25
   It is envisaged that the display controller 629 can control
   the display 54 to display the modification of symbols in a
   variety of ways including: displaying symbols displayed at
   different display positions swapping with one another on the
30 display 54, displaying symbols hopping from one display
   position to another display position on the display 54,
   displaying symbols sliding from one display position to
   another display position on the display 54, displaying
   symbols flipping from one symbol to another symbol on the
35 display 54, displaying symbols shifting from one display
   position to another display position, displaying columns
   rearranging with each other, displaying symbols being
   transported from one display position to another display
   position etc.
40

                                - 24
   It is envisaged that the display 54 is a video display and
   that the reels of display positions are displayed as virtual
   reels on the video display.    However, persons skilled in the
   art will appreciate that the display 54 can also be
 5 implemented using mechanical or electro-mechanical reels.
   For example, a reel on a mechanical display can be
   mechanically rotated from its position to the position of
   another reel, provided the reels are configured such that the
   same symbols can be displayed.
10
   It is also envisaged that animation can be used to highlight
   the modification of displayed symbols   (for example,
   peripheral lights on a gaming machine may flash when the
   reels are being interchanged during game play) and that
15 information can be shown to explain the modification of
   displayed symbols  (for example, before a game starts).
   Figure 7 is a flowchart illustrating an embodiment of the
   method of gaming.  At step 700, a new spinning-reel type game
20 is started by a player using the game play mechanism 56.    At
   step 710, the symbol selector 623 selects a symbol for
   display at each display position of the plurality of columns
   or reels of display positions displayed on the display 54.
   At step 720, the selected symbols are displayed on the
25 display 54 at each display position of the plurality of
   columns or reels of display positions.    At step 730, the
   award determiner 628 determines whether to make an award
   based on the displayed symbols.
30 In this embodiment, some of the displayed symbols are then
   selected by the display position selector 625 for
   modification by the display modifier 624 which interchanges
   the symbols displayed at two or more different columns of
   display positions 740.   As discussed previously, in
35 alternative embodiments, the display modifier 624 can be
   arranged to modify the displayed symbols only upon a
   modification condition being met (as determined by the
   modification condition determiner 626).   In an embodiment, if
   the modification condition is not met, the game ends 760.
40

                                -  25
   As discussed previously, the modification of symbols can be
   displayed in many ways including as symbols shifting from one
   display position to another display position etc.
 5 After the symbols of selected display positions are modified,
   the award determiner 628 determines whether to make an award
   based on the symbols displayed at the plurality of columns of
   display positions as modified 750.
10 In an embodiment, the symbols displayed at the plurality of
   columns of display positions as modified may be modified
   again (that is, by again interchanging the symbols displayed
   at two or more different columns of display positions).      This
   modification of symbols and determination of whether to make
15 an award based on the modified symbols can be repeated any
   number of times.  The number of times the process of
   modifying symbols and determining whether to make an award
   can be defined, random, or based on a particular criteria
   being satisfied (for example, until an award is made or all
20 combinations are exhausted, until no award is made etc).      At
   step 760, the game ends.   In embodiments where the award
   determiner 628 has determined that multiple awards are to be
   made, an option may be displayed on a display to allow the
   player to select which one of the awards he or she wishes to
25 take.
   Further aspects of the method will be apparent from the above
   description of the system.     It will be appreciated that at
   least part of the method will be implemented electronically,
30 for example digitally by a processor.     Persons skilled in the
   art will also appreciate that the method could be embodied in
   program code.  The program code could be supplied in a number
   of ways, for example on a tangible computer readable storage
   medium, such as a disc or a memory    (for example, that could
35 replace part of memory 103) or as a data signal     (for example,
   by transmitting it from a server).     Persons skilled in the
   art, will appreciate that program code provides a series of
   instructions executable by the processor.
40 Example

                                 - 26
   Figures 8A and 8B illustrate an example of how symbols
   displayed at two different columns or reels of display
   positions on the display 54 may be modified and displayed on
 5 display 54.   As shown in these figures, the game is a 5 X 3
   spinning-reel type game having 5 reels of display positions
   (referred to as "Reel 1", "Reel 2",    "Reel 3", "Reel 4", and
   "Reel 5" in Figure 8A),   each reel comprising 3 display
   positions arranged in a column.     In this spinning-reel type
10 game, there are 6 possible symbols that can be displayed at
   each display position.
   Figure 8A illustrates a display of symbols initially selected
   by the symbols selector 623.     As illustrated, there are 3
15 triangle symbols displayed horizontally adjacent each other
   at the bottom-most row   (sometimes referred to as "line 3") of
   the display.   Based on the displayed symbols, the award
   determiner 628 determines that a pay is to be credited to the
   player.  In this example, the modification condition for
20 modifying the displayed symbols is whether a pay is to be
   credited to a player prior to modifying the symbols.     Thus,
   the modification condition determiner 626 determines that the
   modification condition for modifying the displayed symbols in
   this game is met.
25
   Accordingly, the displayed symbols are then modified by the
   display modifier 624 by rearranging or interchanging the
   order of the reels.   In this example, the display position
   selector 625 determines the new order of the reels based on
30 predetermined rules for swapping reels stored in display data
   644.
   After the new order of reels has been determined, the display
   controller 629 controls the display 54 to display the new
35 order of reels.   The new display of symbols is illustrated in
   Figure 8B.   As shown, Reel 5 has been interchanged with Reel
   2, and Reel 4 has been interchanged with Reel 3.
   The award determiner 628 then determines whether an award
40 should be made based on the symbols displayed at the 5 reels

                                - 27
    of display positions as modified.  In this example, the award
    determiner 628 determines that two new pays may be credited
    to the player; one for the 4 star symbols stretching from
    Reel 1 to new Reel 4 or previous Reel 3  (sometimes referred
  5 to as "line 4"), and another for the 3 circle symbols in Reel
    1, new Reel 2 or previous Reel 5, and new Reel 3 or previous
    Reel 4 (sometimes referred to as "line 18").
    It will be understood to persons skilled in the art of the
10  invention that many modifications may be made without
    departing from the spirit and scope of the invention, in
    particular it will be apparent that certain features of
    embodiments of the invention can be employed to form further
    embodiments.
15
    It is to be understood that, if any prior art is referred to
    herein, such reference does not constitute an admission that
    the prior art forms a part of the common general knowledge in
    the art in any country.
20
    In the claims which follow and in the preceding description
    of the invention, except where the context requires otherwise
    due to express language or necessary implication, the word
    "comprise" or variations such as "comprises" or "comprising"
25  is used in an inclusive sense, i.e. to specify the presence
    of the stated features but not to preclude the presence or
    addition of further features in various embodiments of the
    invention.
30

                               - 28
   THE CLAIMS DEFINING THE INVENTION ARE AS FOLLOWS:
   1.    An electronic method of gaming comprising:
         selecting a symbol for display at each display position
 5 of a plurality of sets of display positions;
         modifying the displayed symbols by interchanging a
   first set of symbols displayed at a first set of display
   positions with a second set of symbols displayed at a second
   set of display positions; and
10       determining whether to make an award based on the
   symbols displayed at the plurality of sets of display
   positions as modified.
   2.    An electronic method as claimed in claim 1, wherein
15 each set of display positions comprises a column of display
   positions.
   3.    An electronic method as claimed in claims 1 or 2,
   further comprising determining whether to make another award
20 based on the symbols displayed at the plurality of sets of
   display positions prior to modifying the displayed symbols.
   4.    An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 3, further comprising determining whether a modification
25 condition is met and modifying the displayed symbols upon the
   modification condition being met.
   5.    An electronic method as claimed in claim 4 when
   dependent on claim 3, wherein the modification condition is
30 that an award is to be made.
   6.    An electronic method as claimed in claim 4 when
   dependent on claim 3, wherein the modification condition is
   that an award is not to be made.
35
   7.    An electronic method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
   modification condition is that an ante bet has been made.
   8.    An electronic method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the
40 determination of whether the modification condition is met is

                               - 29
   performed randomly.
   9.    An electronic method as claimed in claim 3, wherein
   after it has been determined that awards may be made both
 5 before and after modification, the method further comprises
   displaying an option to select either the award determined
   before modification or the award determined after
   modification.
10 10.   An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 9, wherein modifying the displayed symbols further
   comprises interchanging a third set of symbols displayed at a
   third set of display positions with a fourth set of symbols
   displayed at a fourth set of display positions.
15
   11.   An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 9, further comprising:
         conducting a further round of symbol modification
   involving two different sets of symbols displayed at two
20 different sets of display positions; and
         determining whether to make an award based on the
   symbols displayed at the plurality of sets of display
   positions as twice modified.
25 12.   An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 11, further comprising selecting one of the plurality of
   sets of display positions to be the first set of display
   positions and another one of the plurality of sets of display
   positions to be the second set of display positions.
30
   13.   An electronic method as claimed in claim 12, wherein
   the first set of display positions and the second set of
   display positions are selected randomly.
35 14.   An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 13, wherein the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols displayed at different display positions
   swapping with one another.
40 15.   An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1

                               - 30
   to 13, wherein the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols hopping from one display position to
   another display position.
 5 16.   An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 13, wherein the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols sliding from one display position to
   another display position.
10 17.   An electronic method as claimed in any one of claims 1
   to 13, wherein the modification of symbols comprises
   displaying symbols flipping from one symbol to another
   symbol.
15 18.   A gaming system comprising:
         a display;
         a symbol selector arranged to select a symbol for
   display at each display position of a plurality of sets of
   display positions on the display;
20       a display modifier arranged to modify the displayed
   symbols by interchanging a first set of symbols displayed at
   a first set of display positions with a second set of symbols
   displayed at a second set of display positions; and
         an award determiner arranged to determine whether to
25 make an award based on the symbols displayed at the plurality
   of sets of display positions as modified.
   19.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 18, wherein each
   set of display positions is displayed as a column of display
30 positions on the display.
   20.   A gaming system as claimed in claims 18 or 19, wherein
   the award determiner is arranged to determine whether to make
   an award based on the symbols displayed at the plurality of
35 sets of display positions prior to modification of the
   displayed symbols.
   21.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 18 to
   20, wherein the display modifier comprises a modification
40 condition determiner arranged to determine whether a

                               - 31
   modification condition is met, and wherein the display
   modifier is arranged to modify the displayed symbols upon the
   modification condition being met.
 5 22.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 21 when dependent
   on claim 20, wherein the modification condition is that an
   award is to be made.
   23.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 21 when dependent
10 on claim 20, wherein the modification condition is that an
   award is not to be made.
   24.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 21, wherein the
   modification condition is that an ante bet has been made.
15
   25.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 21, wherein the
   display modifier is arranged to randomly determine whether
   the modification condition is met.
20 26.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 20, wherein after
   the award determiner has determined that awards may be made
   both before and after modification, an option to select
   either the award determined before modification or the award
   determined after modification is displayed on the display.
25
   27.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 18 to
   26, wherein the display modifier is arranged to further
   modify the displayed symbols by interchanging a third set of
   symbols displayed at a third set of display positions with a
30 fourth set of symbols displayed at a fourth set of display
   positions.
   28.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 18 to
   26, wherein:
35       the display modifier is arranged to conduct a further
   round of symbol modification involving two different sets of
   symbols displayed at two different sets of display positions;
   and
         the award determiner is arranged to determine whether
40 to make an award based on the symbols displayed at the

                               - 32
   plurality of sets of display positions as twice modified.
   29.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 18 to
   28, wherein the display modifier comprises a display position
 5 selector arranged to select one of the plurality of sets of
   display positions to be the first set of display positions
   and another one of the plurality of sets of display positions
   to be the second set of display positions.
10 30.   A gaming system as claimed in claim 29, wherein the
   display position selector is arranged to select the first set
   of display positions and the second set of display positions
   randomly.
15 31.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 18 to
   30, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
   symbols displayed at different display positions swapping
   with one another on the display.
20 32.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 18 to
   30, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
   symbols hopping from one display position to another display
   position on the display.
25 33.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 18 to
   30, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
   symbols sliding from one display position to another display
   position on the display.
30 34.   A gaming system as claimed in any one of claims 18 to
   30, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
   symbols flipping from one symbol to another symbol on the
   display.
35 35.   A game controller for a gaming system, the game
   controller configured to:
         select a symbol for display at each display position of
   a plurality of sets of display positions on a display;
         modify the displayed symbols by interchanging a first
40 set of symbols displayed at a first set of display positions

                               - 33
   with a second set of symbols displayed at a second set of
   display positions; and
         determine whether to make an award based on the symbols
   displayed at the plurality of sets of display positions as
 5 modified.
   36.   A game controller as claimed in claim 35, wherein each
   set of display positions comprises a column of display
   positions.
10
   37.   A game controller as claimed in claims 35 or 52,
   wherein the game controller is configured to determine
   whether to make another award based on the symbols displayed
   at the plurality of sets of display positions prior to
15 modifying the displayed symbols.
   38.   A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 35 to
   37, wherein the game controller is configured to determine
   whether a modification condition is met and to modify the
20 displayed symbols upon the modification condition being met.
   39.   A game controller as claimed in claim 38 when dependent
   on claim 37, wherein the modification condition is that an
   award is to be made.
25
   40.   A game controller as claimed in claim 38 when dependent
   on claim 37, wherein the modification condition is that an
   award is not to be made.
30 41.   A game controller as claimed in claim 38, wherein the
   modification condition is that an ante bet has been made.
   42.   A game controller as claimed in claim 38, wherein the
   determination of whether the modification condition is met is
35 performed randomly.
   43.   A game controller as claimed in claim 37, wherein the
   game controller is configured to, after it has been
   determined that awards may be made both before and after
40 modification, display an option to select either the award

                               - 34
   determined before modification or the award determined after
   modification.
   44.   A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 35 to
 5 43, wherein modifying the displayed symbols further comprises
   interchanging a third set of symbols displayed at a third set
   of display positions with a fourth set of symbols displayed
   at a fourth set of display positions.
10 45.   A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 35 to
   43, wherein the game controller is configured to:
         conduct a further round of symbol modification
   involving two different sets of symbols displayed at two
   different sets of display positions; and
15       determine whether to make an award based on the symbols
   displayed at the plurality of sets of display positions as
   twice modified.
   46.   A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 35 to
20 45, wherein the game controller is configured to select one
   of the plurality of sets of display positions to be the first
   set of display positions and another one of the plurality of
   sets of display positions to be the second set of display
   positions.
25
   47.   A game controller as claimed in claim 46, wherein the
   first set of display positions and the second set of display
   positions are selected randomly.
30 48.   A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 35 to
   47, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
   symbols displayed at different display positions swapping
   with one another.
35 49.   A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 35 to
   47, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
   symbols hopping from one display position to another display
   position.
40 50.   A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 35 to

                               - 35
   47, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
   symbols sliding from one display position to another display
   position.
 5 51.   A game controller as claimed in any one of claims 35 to
   47, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
   symbols flipping from one symbol to another symbol.
   52.   A gaming machine comprising:
10       a display; and
         a game controller comprising:
             a symbol selector arranged to select a symbol for
   display at each display position of a plurality of sets of
   display positions on the display;
15           a display modifier arranged to modify the displayed
   symbols by interchanging a first set of symbols displayed at
   a first set of display positions with a second set of symbols
   displayed at a second set of display positions; and
             an award determiner arranged to determine whether
20 to make an award based on the symbols displayed at the
   plurality of sets of display positions as modified.
   53.   A gaming machine as claimed in claim 52, wherein each
   set of display positions comprises a column of display
25 positions.
   54.   A gaming machine as claimed in claims 52 or 53, wherein
   the game controller is configured to determine whether to
   make another award based on the symbols displayed at the
30 plurality of sets of display positions prior to modifying the
   displayed symbols.
   55.   A gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 52 to
   54, wherein the game controller is configured to determine
35 whether a modification condition is met and to modify the
   displayed symbols upon the modification condition being met.
   56.   A gaming machine as claimed in claim 55 when dependent
   on claim 54, wherein the modification condition is that an
40 award is to be made.

                                - 36
    57.   A gaming machine as claimed in claim 55 when dependent
    on claim 54, wherein the modification condition is that an
    award is not to be made.
  5
    58.   A gaming machine as claimed in claim 55, wherein the
    modification condition is that an ante bet has been made.
    59.   A gaming machine as claimed in claim 55, wherein the
10  determination of whether the modification condition is met is
    performed randomly.
    60.   A gaming machine as claimed in claim 54, wherein the
    game controller is configured to, after it has been
15  determined that awards may be made both before and after
    modification, display an option to select either the award
    determined before modification or the award determined after
    modification.
20  61.   A gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 52 to
    60, wherein modifying the displayed symbols further comprises
    interchanging a third set of symbols displayed at a third set
    of display positions with a fourth set of symbols displayed
    at a fourth set of display positions.
25
    62.   A gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 52 to
    60, wherein the game controller is configured to:
          conduct a further round of symbol modification
    involving two different sets of symbols displayed at two
30  different sets of display positions; and
          determine whether to make an award based on the symbols
    displayed at the plurality of sets of display positions as
    twice modified.
35  63.   A gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 52 to
    62, wherein the game controller is configured to select one
    of the plurality of sets of display positions to be the first
    set of display positions and another one of the plurality of
    sets of display positions to be the second set of display
40  positions.

                                - 37
    64.   A gaming machine as claimed in claim 63, wherein the
    first set of display positions and the second set of display
    positions are selected randomly.
  5
    65.   A gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 52 to
    64, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
    symbols displayed at different display positions swapping
    with one another.
10
    66.   A gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 52 to
    64, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
    symbols hopping from one display position to another display
    position.
15
    67.   A gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 52 to
    64, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
    symbols sliding from one display position to another display
    position.
20
    68.   A gaming machine as claimed in any one of claims 52 to
    64, wherein the modification of symbols comprises displaying
    symbols flipping from one symbol to another symbol.
25  69.   Computer program code which when executed implements
    the method of any one of claims 1 to 17.
    70.   A tangible computer readable medium comprising the
    computer program code of claim 69.
30
    71.   A data signal comprising the computer program code of
    claim 69.

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
