ABSTRACT
The invention relates to antigen-binding proteins or antibodies having heterodimers of heavy
chains, i.e., two immunoglobulin heavy chains that differ by at least one or two amino acid(s)
that allows for isolation of the antigen-binding protein based on a differential affinity of an
immunoglobulin heavy chain and a modified/mutated immunoglobulin heavy chain toward
an affinity reagent. The invention also relates antigen-binding proteins, including bispecific
antibodies, having IgG CHI regions with different affinities with respect to affinity reagent(s)
that allows rapid isolation by differential binding of the IgG regions to the affinity reagent(s).

           READILY ISOLATED BISPECIFIC ANTIBODIES WITH NATIVE
                               IMMUNOGLOBULIN FORMAT
                                  RELATED APPLICATIONS
[0001] This application is a divisional of AU No. 2013234039 filed on 13 March 2013 and
claims the benefit of US No. 61/610,141 filed on 13 March 2012. The contents of these
applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
                                     FIELD OF INVENTION
[0002] The invention concerns antigen-binding proteins or antibodies having heterodimers of
heavy chains, i.e., two immunoglobulin heavy chains that differ by at least one amino acid
that allows for the isolation of the antigen-binding protein based on a differential affinity of
an immunoglobulin heavy chain and a modified or mutated immunoglobulin heavy chain
toward an affinity reagent. The invention also concerns antigen-binding proteins or antibodies
having heterodimers of heavy chains, i.e., two immunoglobulin heavy chains that differ by at
least two amino acids that allow for the isolation of the antigen-binding protein based on a
differential affinity of an immunoglobulin heavy chain and a modified or mutated
immunoglobulin heavy chain toward an affinity reagent. The invention also concerns antigen
binding proteins (including bispecific antibodies) that have IgG CH1 regions with different
affinities with respect to affinity reagent that allows rapid isolation by differential binding of
the IgG regions to this affinity reagent.
                           BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION
[0003] Antibodies are multifunctional molecules carrying a unique binding specificity for a
target antigen or multiple targets and having the capacity to interact with the immune system
via mechanisms that are antigen-independent. Many currently used biological therapeutics for
cancer are monoclonal antibodies directed against antigens that are typically overexpressed
on the targeted cancer cell. When such antibodies bind tumor cells, they may trigger
antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) or complement-dependent cytotoxicity
(CDC). Unfortunately, cancerous cells often develop mechanisms to suppress these normal
immune responses. In addition, targeting or neutralizing a single protein is not always
sufficient to achieve efficacy in certain diseases which limits the
                                                  1

therapeutic use of monoclonal antibodies. It is increasingly clear that in a number of
indications neutralizing one component of a biological system is not sufficient to achieve
efficacy.
[0004]          Accordingly, there remains a need for a bispecific antibody format, in
particular for therapeutic applications, that minimizes some or all of the disadvantages
mentioned above.
                            SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION
[0005]          The invention is based at least in part on employing two immunoglobulin
CH1 heavy chain constant domain sequences that differ by at least one amino acid in a
bispecific antigen-binding protein and form a heterodimer. The amino acid difference
results in an improved ability to quickly and effectively isolate the heteromeric protein from
homodimers, because the difference results in a differential ability of the CH1 domain
sequences to bind the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 (BAC BV) affinity reagent. In one aspect,
an antigen-binding protein is provided, comprising a first and a second polypeptide, the first
polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C-terminal, a first antigen-binding region that
selectively binds a first antigen, followed by a constant region that comprises a first CH1
region of a human IgG selected from IgG1 (SEQ ID NO: 1), IgG2 (SEQ ID NO: 2), IgG3
(SEQ ID NO: 3), IgG4 (SEQ ID NO: 4), and a combination thereof; and, a second
polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C-terminal, a second antigen-binding region
that selectively binds a second antigen, followed by a constant region that comprises a
second CH1 region of a human IgG selected from IgG1, IgG2, IgG3, IgG4, and a
combination thereof, wherein the second CH1 region comprises a modification that reduces
or eliminates binding of the second CH1 domain to the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity
reagent.
[0006]          The invention is also based at least in part on employing two
immunoglobulin CH1 heavy chain constant domain sequences that differ by at least two
amino acids in a bispecific antigen-binding protein and form a heterodimer. The two amino
acid difference results in an improved ability to quickly and effectively isolate the
heteromeric protein from homodimers, because the difference results in a differential ability
of the CH1 domain sequences to bind the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 (BAC BV) affinity
reagent. In one aspect, an antigen-binding protein is provided, comprising a first and a
second polypeptide, the first polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C-terminal, a first
                                               2

antigen-binding region that selectively binds a first antigen, followed by a constant region
that comprises a first CH1 region of a human IgG selected from IgG1 (SEQ ID NO: 1),
IgG2 (SEQ ID NO: 2), IgG3 (SEQ ID NO: 3), IgG4 (SEQ ID NO: 4), and a combination
thereof; and, a second polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C-terminal, a second
antigen-binding region that selectively binds a second antigen, followed by a constant
region that comprises a second CH1 region of a human IgG selected from IgG1, IgG2,
IgG3, IgG4, and a combination thereof, wherein the second CH1 region comprises a
modification that reduces or eliminates binding of the second CH1 domain to the
CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent.
[0007]          In one embodiment, the second CH1 region comprises mutations modifying
residues S40 and T47, according to the IMGT exon numbering system (IMGT@, the
international ImMunoGeneTics information system@).
[0008]          In some embodiments, the second CH1 region comprises the S40T and T47S
modifications. As used herein, an "S40T" mutation is one in which the wild-type residue,
serine, at position 40 is replaced with a threonine (i.e., S   +  T mutation at residue 40).
Likewise, as used herein, a "T47S" mutation is one in which the wild-type residue,
threonine, at position 40 is replaced with a seine (i.e., T 4 S mutation at residue 47).
[0009]          In specific embodiments, the second CH1 region is selected from SEQ ID
NO: 14, SEQ ID NO: 15, SEQ ID NO: 16 and SEQ ID NO: 17.
[00010]         In one embodiment, the second CH1 region is or is derived from a modified
human IgG1 (SEQ ID NO: 14).
[00011]         In one embodiment, the second CH1 region is or is derived from a modified
human IgG2 (SEQ ID NO: 15).
[00012]         In one embodiment, the second CH1 region is from a modified human IgG3
(SEQ ID NO: 16).
[00013]         In one embodiment, the second CH1 region is from a modified human IgG4
(SEQ ID NO: 17).
[00014]         In one embodiment, the CH1 domain is a chimeric domain that comprises
sequences of two or more of human IgG1, human IgG2, human IgG3 and human IgG4.
[00015]         In one embodiment, the CH1 domain is from human IgG1, human IgG2,
human IgG3, or human IgG4, and the antigen-binding protein further comprises a CH2
domain and a CH3 domain, wherein the CH2 domain and the CH3 domain are
independently selected from the group consisting of a human IgG1 CH2 or CH3 domain, a
                                               3

human IgG2 CH2 or CH3 domain, a human IgG3 CH2 or CH3 domain, a human IgG4 CH2
or CH3 domain.
[00016]        In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein further comprises an
immunoglobulin light chain.
[00017]        In other embodiment the immunoglobulin light chain is selected from a
human lambda and a human kappa light chain.
[00018]        In one embodiment, the first and the second antigen-binding regions each
comprise at least one complementarity determining region (CDR). In another embodiment,
the first and the second antigen-binding regions each comprise at least two CDRs. In
another embodiment, the first and the second antigen-binding regions each comprise each
comprise three CDRs. In a specific embodiment, the CDRs are from an immunoglobulin
heavy chain. In another specific embodiment, the heavy chain is a human heavy chain.
[00019]        In one embodiment, the first antigen-binding region comprises a first
immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domain, and the second antigen-binding region
comprises a second immunoglobulin heavy chain variable domain.
[00020]        In one embodiment, the first and the second immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable domains independently comprise a human CDR, a mouse CDR, a rat CDR, a rabbit
CDR, a monkey CDR, an ape CDR, a synthetic CDR, and/or a humanized CDR. In one
embodiment, the CDR is human and is somatically mutated.
[00021]        In one embodiment, the first and the second immunoglobulin heavy chain
variable domain comprise a human framework region (FR). In one embodiment, the human
FR is a somatically mutated human FR.
[00022]        In one embodiment, the first and/or the second antigen-binding regions are
obtained by screening a phage library comprising antibody variable regions for reactivity
toward an antigen of interest.
[00023]        In another embodiment, the first and/or the second antigen-binding regions
are obtained by immunizing a non-human animal such as a mouse, a rat, a rabbit, a monkey,
or an ape with an antigen of interest and identifying an antibody variable region nucleic acid
sequence encoding variable region specific for the antigen of interest.
[00024]        In another specific embodiment, one or more human immunoglobulin
variable region genes are present in the non-human animal extrachromosomally, as a
replacement at an endogenous immunoglobulin locus, or as a transgene randomly integrated
into the genome of the non-human animal. In one embodiment, the first and/or the second
                                               4

antigen-binding regions are obtained from a hybridoma or a quadroma, in another
embodiment from screening immune cells of an immunized non-human animal using cell
sorting.
[00025]           In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein is a bispecific antibody. In
one embodiment, the bispecific antibody is a fully human bispecific antibody and has an
affinity for each epitope, independently, in the micromolar, nanomolar, or picomolar range.
[00026]           In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein is non-immunogenic or
substantially non-immunogenic in a human. In a specific embodiment, the antigen-binding
protein lacks a non-native human T-cell epitope. In one embodiment, the modification of
the CH1 region is non-immunogenic or substantially non-immunogenic in a human.
[00027]           In one embodiment, the antigen-binding protein comprises a heavy chain,
wherein the heavy chain is non-immunogenic or substantially non-immunogenic in a
human.
[00028]           In one embodiment, the heavy chain has an amino acid sequence that does
not contain a non-native T-cell epitope. In one embodiment, the heavy chain comprises an
amino acid sequence whose proteolysis cannot form an amino acid sequence of about 9
amino acids that is immunogenic in a human. In a specific embodiment, the human is a
human being treated with the antigen-binding protein. In one embodiment, the heavy chain
comprises an amino acid sequence whose proteolysis cannot form an amino acid sequence
of about 13 to about 17 amino acids that is immunogenic in a human. In a specific
embodiment, the human is a human being treated with the antigen-binding protein.
[00029]           In one aspect, the invention provides isolated multispecific antibodies having
more than one antigen binding specificity, wherein the multispecific antibody include at
least (i) a first polypeptide comprising a first variable region that binds a first epitope and an
immunoglobulin constant region that comprises a first CH1 region of a human IgG selected
from IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4, and (ii) a second polypeptide comprising a second region
that binds a second epitope and an immunoglobulin constant region that comprises a second
CH1 region of a human IgG selected from IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4, wherein the first
and second epitopes are different epitopes, and wherein at least one of the first and second
CH1 regions comprises a modification that reduces or eliminates binding of the second CH1
domain to the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent, or any affinity reagent targeting
the human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 CH1 domain.
                                                 5

[00030]         The invention also provides heterodimeric bispecific antigen-binding
proteins that include (a) a first polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C-terminal a
first epitope-binding region that selectively binds a first epitope and an immunoglobulin
constant region that comprises a first CH1 region of a human IgG selected from IgG1, IgG2,
IgG3 and IgG4; and, b) a second polypeptide comprising, from N-terminal to C-terminal, a
second epitope-binding      region that selectively     binds a second epitope and an
immunoglobulin constant region that comprises a second CH1 region of a human IgG
selected from IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4, wherein the second CH1 region comprises a
modification that reduces or eliminates binding of the second CH1 domain to the
CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent, or any affinity reagent targeting the human IgG1,
IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 CH1 domain.
[00031]         In some embodiments of the multispecific antibodies, e.g., heterodimeric
bispecific antigen-binding proteins, the first polypeptide and the second polypeptide
comprise human IgG heavy chains or are derived from human IgG heavy chains. In some
embodiments, the multispecific antibodies, e.g., heterodimeric bispecific antigen-binding
proteins, also include an immunoglobulin light chain. In some embodiments of the
multispecific antibodies, e.g., heterodimeric bispecific antigen-binding proteins, the
immunoglobulin light chain is a human immunoglobulin light chain or is derived from a
human immunoglobulin light chain. In some embodiments of the multispecific antibodies,
e.g., heterodimeric bispecific antigen-binding proteins, the first and the second polypeptides
each are human IgG1 heavy chains or are derived from human IgG1 heavy chains. In some
embodiments of the multispecific antibodies, e.g., heterodimeric bispecific antigen-binding
proteins, the second CH1 region comprises the modification. In some embodiments of the
multispecific antibodies, e.g., heterodimeric bispecific antigen-binding proteins, the
modification in the second CH1 domain include a mutation modifying S40 in the IMGT
exon numbering system, a mutation modifying T47 in the IMGT exon numbering system or
a combination thereof. In some embodiments of the multispecific antibodies, e.g.,
heterodimeric bispecific antigen-binding proteins, the modification in the second CH1
domain comprises an S40T mutation in the IMGT exon numbering system, a T47S mutation
in the IMGT exon numbering system or a combination thereof. In some embodiments of the
multispecific antibodies, e.g., heterodimeric bispecific antigen-binding proteins, the first
CH1 domain of the bispecific antibody, the second CH1 domain or both the first and second
CH1 domains are non-immunogenic or substantially non-immunogenic in a human.
                                               6

[00032]          In one aspect, a method for making a bispecific antibody is provided,
comprising: obtaining a nucleic acid sequence encoding a first immunoglobulin heavy chain
comprising a first variable domain that recognizes a first epitope, wherein the first
immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises an IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4 isotype constant
domain; obtaining a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a second immunoglobulin
heavy chain comprising a second variable domain that recognizes a second epitope, wherein
the second immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises an IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4 isotype
constant domain, or a chimeric isotype constant domain thereof, that comprises a
modification in its CH1 domain that eradicates or reduces binding to the CaptureSelect@
IgG-CH1      affinity reagent; obtaining a third nucleic acid sequence encoding an
immunoglobulin a light chain that pairs with the first and the second immunoglobulin heavy
chain; introducing the first, second, and third nucleic acid sequences into a mammalian cell;
allowing the cell to express an immunoglobulin, and isolating the immunoglobulin using the
CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent.
[00033]          In one embodiment, the cell is selected from a CHO, COS, 293, HeLa, and a
retinal cell expressing a viral nucleic acid sequence (e.g., a PERC.6TM cell).
[00034]          In one aspect, a method for making a bispecific antibody is provided,
comprising a step of isolating from a disrupted cell or a mixture of antibodies a bispecific
antibody having differentially modified IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4 CH1 domains, wherein
the differentially modified CH1 domains are non-immunogenic or substantially non
immunogenic in a human, and wherein the modification results in a bispecific antibody with
heterodimeric heavy chains whose monomers have a differential affinity for an affinity
reagent, and the bispecific antibody is isolated from the disrupted cell or the mixture using
an affinity reagent.
[00035]          In one embodiment, the heterodimeric            bispecific antibody can be
preferentially purified at specific pH range and salt concentration. In this embodiment, the
heterodimeric bispecific antibody is composed of two different heavy chains, one modified
at positions 40 and 47 (IMGT@ numbering), or at positions 40, 45 and 47 (IMGT@
numbering), on its CH1 domain; and the other one lacks modification at positions 40 and 47
(IMGT@ numbering), or at positions 40, 45 and 47 (IMGT@ numbering), on its CH1
domain.
[00036]          In one aspect, the invention provides methods for producing multispecific
antibodies, e.g., heterodimeric bispecific antigen-binding proteins, by (a) obtaining a nucleic
                                                7

acid sequence encoding a first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprising a first variable
domain that recognizes a first epitope, wherein the first immunoglobulin heavy chain
comprises an IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4 isotype constant domain; (b) obtaining a second
nucleic acid sequence encoding a second immunoglobulin heavy chain comprising a second
variable domain that recognizes a second epitope, wherein the second immunoglobulin
heavy chain comprises an IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4 isotype constant domain that
comprises a modification in its CH1 domain that eradicates or reduces binding to
CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent, or any affinity reagent targeting the human IgG1,
IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 CH1 domain; (c) obtaining a third nucleic acid sequence encoding an
immunoglobulin light chain that pairs with the first and the second immunoglobulin heavy
chain; (d) introducing the first, second, and third nucleic acid sequences into a mammalian
cell; (e) allowing the cell to express a bispecific antibody; and (f) isolating the bispecific
antibody based on the ability of the bispecific antibody to bind the CaptureSelect@ IgG
CH1 affinity reagent, or any affinity reagent targeting the human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and
IgG4 CH1 domain.
[00037]         In some embodiments, the modification in the second CH1 domain
comprises an S40T mutation in the IMGT exon numbering system, a T47S mutation in the
IMGT exon numbering system or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the first
CH1 domain of the bispecific antibody, the second CH1 domain or both the first and second
CH1 domains are non-immunogenic or substantially non-immunogenic in a human. In some
embodiments, the bispecific antibody is isolated on a solid support comprising a
CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent, or any affinity reagent targeting the human IgG1,
IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 CH1 domain. In some embodiments, the solid support comprises a
CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity column, or any affinity reagent targeting the human
IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 CH1 domain, and the bispecific antibody is isolated employing
a pH gradient. In some embodiments, the pH gradient is a step gradient comprising one or
more pH steps between pH 3 and pH 5.
[00038]         In one aspect, the invention provides methods for isolating a bispecific
antibody by isolating from a disrupted cell or a mixture of antibodies a bispecific antibody
having differentially modified IgG1,IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4 CH1 domains, wherein the
differentially modified CH1        domains are non-immunogenic        or substantially non
immunogenic in a human, and wherein the modification results in a bispecific antibody with
a heterodimeric heavy chain constant region whose monomers have a differential affinity
                                               8

for the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent, or any affinity reagent targeting the
human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 CH1 domain, and the bispecific antibody is isolated
from the disrupted cell or the mixture based on its affinity for the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1
affinity reagent, or any affinity reagent targeting the human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4
CH1 domain.
[00039]         In some embodiments, one monomer of the heterodimeric heavy chain
constant region is a human IgG1 and the other monomer of the heterodimeric heavy chain
constant region is a modified human IgG1 comprising a modification selected from the
group consisting an S40T mutation in the IMGT exon numbering system, a T47S mutation
in the IMGT exon numbering system or a combination thereof. In some embodiments, the
first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a mutation or modification altering its binding
properties   to an affinity chromatography        resin. In some embodiments,         the first
immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a mutation altering its binding properties to Protein
A. In some embodiments, the first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a H435R
mutation altering its binding properties to Protein A.
[00040]         Any of the embodiments and aspects described herein can be used in
conjunction with one another, unless otherwise indicated or apparent from the context.
Other embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of the
ensuing description.
                        BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES
[00041]         Figure 1 is a table showing the specificity of the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1
affinity reagent for known purified antibodies of different species and different isotypes.
[00042]         Figure 2 is an illustration depicting the sequence alignment of the CH1
domains of the following species and isotypes: human IGHG1 (H-IGHG1, SEQ ID NO: 1),
human IGHG2 (H-IGHG2, SEQ ID NO: 2), human IGHG3 (H-IGHG3, SEQ ID NO: 3),
human IGHG4 (H-IGHG4, SEQ ID NO:4), hamster IGHG (Ha-IGHG, SEQ ID NO: 5),
mouse IGHG1 (M-IGHG1, SEQ ID NO: 6), mouse IGHG2A (M-IGHG2A, SEQ ID NO:
7), mouse IGHG2B (M-IGHG2B, SEQ ID NO: 8), mouse IGHG2C (M-IGHG2C, SEQ ID
NO: 9), mouse IGHG3 (M-IGHG3, SEQ ID NO 10), rat IGHG1 (R-IGHG1, SEQ ID NO:
11), rat IGHG2A (R-IGHG2A, SEQ ID NO: 12), rat IGHG2B (R-IGHG2B, SEQ ID NO:
13), and rat IGHG2C (R-IGHG2C, SEQ ID NO: 14).
                                               9

[00043]         Figure 3 is an illustration depicting an example of a bispecific antibody
having wild-type CH1 domain with a seine residue at position 40 (40S) and a threonine
residue at position 47 (47T).
[00044]         Figure 4 is a table depicting the CH1 domain mutations tested in the
examples provided below.
[00045]         Figure 5 is an illustration depicting the sequence alignment of the H-IGHG1
(SEQ ID NO: 1) CH1 domain and the H-IGHG1 M2 (SEQ ID NO: 15) CH1 domain, where
the H-IGHG1 M2 mutant is a variant of the H-IGHG1 sequence having a threonine at
position 40 (also referred to herein as an S40T mutation) and a seine at position 47 (also
referred to herein as a T47S mutation).
[00046]         Figure 6 is a graph depicting the amount of purified antibodies obtained after
purification on either a Protein A affinity column or a CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity
column.
[00047]         Figure 7 is a graph depicting the percentage of purified antibody recovery
using a Protein A affinity column as compared to the purified antibody recovery using a
CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity column.
[00048]         Figure 8 is an illustration depicting the sequence alignment of the H-IGHG1
(SEQ ID NO: 1) CH1 domain and the H-IGHG1 M2 (SEQ ID NO: 15) CH1 domain; the H
IGHG2 (SEQ ID NO: 2) CH1 domain and the H-IGHG2 M2 (SEQ ID NO: 16) CH1
domain, where the H-IGHG2 M2 mutant is a variant of the H-IGHG2 sequence having a
threonine at position 40 (also referred to herein as an S40T mutation) and a seine at
position 47 (also referred to herein as a T47S mutation); the H-IGHG3 (SEQ ID NO: 3)
CH1 domain and the H-IGHG3 M2 (SEQ ID NO: 17) CH1 domain, where the H-IGHG3
M2 mutant is a variant of the H-IGHG3 sequence having a threonine at position 40 (also
referred to herein as an S40T mutation) and a seine at position 47 (also referred to herein as
a T47S mutation); and the H-IGHG4 (SEQ ID NO: 4) CH1 domain and the H-IGHG4 M2
(SEQ ID NO: 18) CH1 domain, where the H-IGHG4 M2 mutant is a variant of the H
IGHG42 sequence having a threonine at position 40 (also referred to herein as an S40T
mutation) and a seine at position 47 (also referred to herein as a T47S mutation).
[00049]         Figure 9 is an illustration depicting a possible bispecific antibody format
purified by two affinity steps. This antibody has one common light chain and two different
heavy chains. Mutations have been introduced in these two different heavy chains. One
heavy chains has S40T and T47S mutations in its CH1 domain which abrogate binding to
                                               10

CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent, while the other chain has H435R mutation in its
CH3 domain which abrogates binding to protein A. The positions that were mutated are
indicated.
[00050]         Figure 10 is an illustration depicting the asymmetric purification strategy
used to isolate bispecific antibody from the mixture of antibodies generated upon expression
in single cell of two heavy chains and one light chain. The monospecific antibody carrying
the H435R on both heavy chains does not bind to the Protein A resin and is lost in the flow
through. The second monospecific antibody carrying the S40T and T47S mutations on both
heavy chains does not bind to the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent and is lost in
the flow-through. The bispecific antibody is recovered in the final elution step.
[00051]         Figure 11 is a graph depicting antibody binding results against CD3 obtained
by ELISA. The ELISA format is described by a cartoon in the right panel.
[00052]         Figure 12 is a graph depicting antibody binding results against IL-17
obtained by ELISA. The ELISA format is described by a cartoon in the right panel.
[00053]         Figure 13 is a graph depicting antibody co-engagement results against both
CD3 and IL-17 obtained by ELISA. The ELISA format is described by a cartoon in the right
panel.
[00054]         Figure 14 is a graph depicting sensorgrams obtained on a Biacore 2000
instrument for the interaction between the biotinylated ligand of CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1
immobilized on a streptavidin coated CM5 chip, with different IgG bearing unmodified or
modified CH1 domains. The mutated hIgG1 carry the mutations described in Figure 4.
                                DETAILED DESCRIPTION
[00055]         In order to overcome the limitations of monoclonal and monovalent antibody
therapeutics that can only target a single antigen or to overcome the limitations of
combinations of monovalent antibody therapeutics, intense efforts have aimed at multiple
antigen targeting using bispecific antibody formats. Bispecific antibodies are advantageous
as they allow for multiple targeting, they increase therapeutic potential, they address
redundancy of biological systems, and they provide novel mechanisms of action through
abilities such as retargeting and/or increased specificity. As validated single therapeutic
targets become more and more exhausted, combinations allowed by bispecific antibodies
provide a new and expansive universe of targets for therapeutic agents and applications.
                                              11

[00056]         In recent years, efforts have been underway to develop antibody like
therapeutics that have more than one antigen binding specificity, e.g., bispecific antibodies.
In the case of cancer therapies, multi-specific formats could allow the possibility of using,
e.g., one specificity to target the molecule to a tumor cell antigen, the other specificity to
trigger a response that is not normally available to the immune system. Bispecific antibodies
may also find use as surrogate ligands for two-component heterodimeric receptor systems
that are normally activated by their natural ligand when it binds to and brings together both
components.
[00057]         Numerous formats have been developed in the art to address therapeutic
opportunities afforded by molecules with multiple binding specificities. Ideally, such
molecules should be well-behaved proteins that are easy to produce and purify, and possess
favorable in vivo properties. e.g., pharmacokinetics appropriate for an intended purpose,
minimal immunogenicity, and, if desirable, effector functions of conventional antibodies.
[00058]         The most straightforward way of producing a bispecific antibody (expressing
two distinct antibodies in a single cell) gives rise to multiple species, because the respective
heavy chains form both homo- and heterodimers, but only the heterodimers are desired.
Also, the light and heavy chains may pair inappropriately. Several examples of formats that
attempt to address these problems in different ways are described below.
[00059]         One format, used for Bispecific T cell Engager (BiTE) molecules (see, e.g.,
Wolf, E. et al. (2005) Drug Discovery Today 10:1237-1244)), is based on single chain
variable fragment (scFv) modules. An scFv consists of an antibody's light and heavy chain
variable regions fused via a flexible linker, which generally can fold appropriately and so
that the regions can bind the cognate antigen. A BITE concatenates two scFv's of different
specificities in tandem on a single chain. This configuration precludes the production of
molecules with two copies of the same heavy chain variable region. In addition, the linker
configuration is designed to ensure correct pairing of the respective light and heavy chains.
[00060]         The BITE format has several disadvantages. First, scFv molecules are
notorious for their tendency to aggregate. And although the immunogenicity of scFv linkers
is reputedly low, the possibility of generating antibodies against a BITE cannot be ruled out.
The absence of an Fc portion in the BITE format also makes its serum half-life very short,
and this necessitates the complication of frequent repeated administrations or continuous
infusion via a pump. Finally, the absence of an Fc also implies the absence of Fc-mediated
effector functions, which may be beneficial in some circumstances.
                                               12

[00061]         A second format is a hybrid of a mouse and a rat monoclonal antibody, and
relies on a modification of conventional Protein A affinity chromatography (see, e.g.,
Lindhofer, H. et al. (1995) J. Immunol. 155:219-225)). In this format, a mouse IgG2a and a
rat IgG2b antibody are produced together in the same cell (e.g., either as a quadroma fusion
of two hybridomas, or in engineered CHO cells). Because the light chains of each antibody
associate preferentially with the heavy chains of their cognate species, only three distinct
species of antibody can be assembled: the two parental antibodies, and a heterodimer of the
two antibodies comprising one heavy/light chain pair of each, associating via their Fc
portions. The desired heterodimer can be easily purified from this mixture because its
binding properties to Protein A are different from those of the parental antibodies: rat IgG2b
does not bind to protein A, whereas the mouse IgG2a does. Consequently, the mouse-rat
heterodimer binds to Protein A but elutes at a higher pH than the mouse IgG2a homodimer,
and this makes selective purification of the bispecific heterodimer possible. As with the
BITE format, this hybrid format has two monovalent antigen binding sites.
[00062]         The disadvantage of the mouse/rat hybrid is that because it is non-human, it
is likely to provoke an immune response in the patient, which could have deleterious side
effects, and/or neutralize the therapeutic.
[00063]         Based on the concept described above, i.e., differential binding of a
heterodimeric molecule to Protein A, other formats relying on the modification of the Fc
region responsible for binding to protein A have been described in US Patent Application
Publication No. 20100331527A1. A limitation of engineering the Fc region of an antibody
is that the mutations introduced might affect the interaction with Fc receptors and, therefore,
Fc mediated functions. In particular, the FcRn interaction is crucial for long half-life of
antibodies and this interaction site is located close to the Protein A binding site.
[00064]         Another format, referred to as "knobs-into-holes" has been discussed in the
prior art as potentially useful for the production of bispecific antibodies (U.S. Pat. No.
7,183,076). In this strategy, the Fc portions of two antibodies are engineered to give one a
protruding "knob", and the other a complementary "hole." When produced in the same cell,
the heavy chains are said to preferentially form heterodimers rather than homodimers, by
association of the engineered "knobs" with the engineered "holes." Issues of correct light
heavy chain pairing are addressed by choosing antibodies that have different specificities
but employ identical light chains.
                                                13

[00065]          The disadvantage of this format is that the "knobs- into-holes" strategy can
result in production of a significant amount of undesirable homodimers, thus necessitating
further purification steps. This difficulty is exacerbated by the fact that the contaminating
species are nearly identical to the desired species in many of their properties. The
engineered forms may also potentially be immunogenic, because the mutations producing
the "knobs" and "holes" introduce foreign sequences.
[00066]          The approach to generate bispecific antibodies described herein overcomes
the disadvantages of other it does not involve mutagenesis of the Fc region but instead relies
on CH1 domain modifications which alter its binding capacity to a CH1 specific affinity
chromatography media. The CH1 region of antibodies is not known to be involved in
interactions with receptors or other proteins and thus the effector functions and
pharmacokinetic properties of the bispecific format of the invention remain unaltered. An
additional benefit of some of the mutations of the CH1 domain described herein is that even
very conservative changes (i.e., seine to threonine and threonine to seine) can abolish
binding to the CH1 specific chromatography media. Although, these conservative mutations
represent preferred changes, those ordinary skilled in the art will appreciate that less
conservative mutations can also be applied for this approach.
[00067]          The present invention allows for the purification of the bispecific antibody
species that contains only one unmodified CH1 domain from monospecific antibodies. This
can be achieved by co-expressing in a single cell two different antibody heavy chains and
one antibody light chain. The two heavy chains, when paired with the common light chain
mediate specific binding against two different antigens. One of the two heavy chains
contains a modified CH1 domain that prevents its binding to the CH1 specific
chromatography media. The co-expression of the three chains leads to the production of a
mixture of three antibodies: a homodimeric monospecific antibody bearing two unmodified
CH1 domains, a homodimeric monospecific antibody bearing two modified CH1 domains
and a heterodimeric bispecific antibody bearing one modified CH1 domain and one
unmodified CH1 domain. The differential properties of the three different molecules can
exploited to efficiently purify the bispecific antibody from the monospecific ones.
[00068]          The modifications of the CH1 domain described herein can be combined
with other mutations or modification of a portion of an antibody, such as the Fc domain.
Such combinations enable a two-step asymmetric purification approach that further
facilitates isolation of the bispecific molecule.
                                                14

                                         EXAMPLES
[00069]         The following examples are provided to describe to those of ordinary skill in
the art how to make and use methods and compositions of the invention, and are not
intended to limit the scope of what the inventors regard as their invention. Efforts have been
made to ensure accuracy with respect to numbers used (e.g., amounts, temperature, etc.) but
some experimental errors and deviations should be accounted for. Unless indicated
otherwise, parts are parts by weight, molecular weight is average molecular weight,
temperature is in degrees Centigrade, and pressure is at or near atmospheric.
Example 1. The CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent specifically binds to human
and hamster IgGs
[00070]         Binding experiments were conducted with known purified antibodies of
different species and different isotypes to test the specificity of the CaptureSelect@ IgG
CH1 affinity reagent. These experiments revealed that only human and hamster IgGs could
be retained on the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity resin while mouse and rat IgGs of
different isotypes couldn't bind to this affinity reagent (Figure 1).
Example 2. Identification of sequence determinants responsible of the IgG binding to
The CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent
[00071]         Sequence alignment of human (IGHG1 SEQ ID NO: 1, IGHG2 SEQ ID NO:
2, IGHG3 SEQ ID NO: 3, IGHG4 SEQ ID NO:4), hamster (IGHG SEQ ID NO: 5), mouse
(IGHG1 SEQ ID NO: 6, IGHG2A SEQ ID NO: 7, IGHG2B SEQ ID NO: 8, IGHG2C SEQ
ID NO: 9, IGHG3 SEQ ID NO 10) and rat (IGHG1 SEQ ID NO: 11, IGHG2A SEQ ID NO:
12, IGHG2B SEQ ID NO: 13, IGHG2C SEQ ID NO: 14) isotypes was carried out (Figure
2). Two residues conserved in human and hamster CH1 but not in mouse and rat sequences
were identified: 40S and 47T. Their exposures to the solvent were also determined in
antibody structure, indicating that these residues are highly accessible. Another residue 45A
is located in the vicinity of 40S and 47T, is well exposed to the solvent and is partially
conserved in the different species (Figure 3).
                                                15

Example 3. Modification of human CH1 domain to alter binding to CH1 affinity
chromatography media
[00072]         Modification of human IGHG1 were introduced in the CH1 domain by site
directed mutagenesis as single (S40T or T47S) double (S40T, T47S) or triple (S40T, A45S,
T47S) mutations and were called M2ST, M2TS, M2 and M3, respectively (Figures 4, 5 and
8). These different mutants were further expressed in 293 cells using standard mammalian
cell transfection procedures and purified from the supernatant as described below.
[00073]         Protein A and CaptureSelect® IgG-CH1 purification of differentially
modified IgG1: Differentially modified monomeric IgG1 (ref e.g. WT, M2ST, M2TS, M2
and M3) were expressed in 293 cells. Cell supernatants were harvested and divided in two.
Antibodies were then purified either on Protein A or CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity
columns. The amount of purified antibodies obtained after purification were determined
(Figure 6). Percentage of antibody recovery between Protein A and CaptureSelect@ IgG
CH1 affinity columns were also calculated (Figure 7). This percentage indicated that single
mutations M2ST and M2TS lowered the antibody binding to the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1
affinity column but didn't abrogate it. Double and triple mutants M2 and M3 recoveries on
CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity column were extremely low indicating that the S40T,
T47S double mutation was sufficient to abrogate IGHG1 binding to this affinity reagent.
Example 4. Generation and purification of an anti-IL17 x anti-CD3 bispecific antibody
[00074]         It was found that two known antibodies of human IgG1 isotype, one against
IL-17 and one against protein CD3, had light chains that differed by only one amino acid.
Co-expression experiments revealed that the light chain of the anti-IL-17 antibody could be
replaced with the light chain from the anti-CD3 antibody and still maintain high affinity
binding to IL-17, thus making it feasible to produce a bispecific antibody using the anti-IL
17 heavy chain, the anti-CD3 heavy chain and the same light chain. Accordingly, the heavy
chain of the anti-IL-17 antibody was modified to the M2 form (i.e., CH1 modifications
S40T and T47S, by IMGT@ exon numbering).
[00075]         Moreover, to facilitate the purification of the bispecific antibody, H435R
mutation was introduced in the CH3 domain of the heavy chain of the anti-CD3 antibody to
disrupt binding to protein A affinity reagent (Figure 9). Based on the paper of Natsume et
al. (Cancer Res 2008;68:3863-3872, the contents of which are hereby incorporated by
reference in their entirety) who engineered the C-terminal part of the CH3 domain of the
                                              16

IgG3-Fc region to introduce binding of IgG3 to protein A, the C-terminal residues of the
CH3 domain of IgG3 were introduced in human IgG1. Only two residues differ between
IgG1 and IgG3 in this part of CH3 domain, which corresponds to residues His435 and
Tyr436 (which are Arg and Phe residues in IgG3, respectively). After site-directed
mutagenesis, H435R mutation proved to be sufficient to abrogate binding to protein A.
Therefore, the anti-CD3 and anti-IL-17 heavy chains were co-expressed with the same light
chain in 293 cells, and the bispecific antibody was purified from supernatant using
asymmetric purification. A first purification was conducted with the protein A resin to
capture bispecific antibody and anti-IL17 monospecific antibody. Then, a second
purification with CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity column was used to specifically capture
bispecific antibody (Figure 10). Finally, ELISA experiments were conducted to determine
the antibody binding against CD3, IL-17 or co-engagement of both CD3 and IL-17. Only,
the bispecific antibody obtained by asymmetrical purification was able to engage both IL- 17
and CD3 when compared to the monospecific antibodies (Figure 11-13).
Example 5. Binding of antibodies containing mutated CH1 domains to the ligand of
the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity resin by surface Plasmon resonance
[00076]         The interaction of the IgG bearing modified and unmodified CH1 domains
was characterized using surface Plasmon resonance on Biacore 2000 instrument. The
biotinylated ligand of the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity resin (BAC BV) was
immobilized on a streptavidin coated CM5 chip (GE Healthcare). The M2, M3, M2ST and
unmodified IgG1 were injected on the surface and the sensorgram recorded (Figure 14). A
clear interaction between the IgG containing an unmodified CH1 domain and the ligand of
the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity resin can be observed, with a very slow off rate. In
contrast, the double and triple mutations present in the M2 and M3 completely abolish this
interaction. The single mutation S40T leads to a partial inhibition of the interaction.
                                    Other Embodiments
[0001]          While the invention has been described in conjunction with the detailed
description thereof, the foregoing description is intended to illustrate and not limit the scope
of the invention, which is defined by the scope of the appended claims. Other aspects,
advantages, and modifications are within the scope of the following claims.
                                              17

[000781        The term 'comprise'       and variants of the term such as 'comprises'        or
'comprising' are used herein to denote the inclusion of a stated integer or stated integers but
not to exclude any other integer or any other integers, unless in the     context or usage an
exclusive interpretation of the term is required.
[000791        Any reference to publications cited in this specification is not an admission
that the disclosures constitute common general knowledge in Australia.
                                               17a

What is claimed is:
1.      An isolated multispecific antibody having more than one antigen binding specificity,
wherein the multispecific antibody comprises
        (i)     a first polypeptide comprising a first variable region that binds a first epitope
                and an immunoglobulin constant region that comprises a first CH1 region of
                a human IgG selected from IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4, and
        (ii)    a second polypeptide comprising a second variable region that binds a
                second epitope and an immunoglobulin constant region that comprises a
                second CH1 region of a human IgG selected from IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and
                IgG4,
wherein the first and second epitopes are different epitopes, and wherein at least one of the
first and second CH1 regions comprises a modification that reduces or eliminates binding of
the second CH1 domain to the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent, or any affmity
reagent targeting the human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 CH1 domain.
2.      The isolated multispecific antibody of claim 1, wherein the first polypeptide and the
second polypeptide comprise human IgG heavy chains or are derived from human IgG
heavy chains.
3.      The   isolated    multispecific antibody     of claim     1, further    comprising     an
immunoglobulin light chain.
4.      The isolated multispecific antibody of claim 3, wherein the immunoglobulin light
chain comprises a human immunoglobulin light chain or is derived from a human
immunoglobulin light chain.
5.      The isolated multispecific antibody of claim 1, wherein the first and the second
polypeptides each comprise human IgG1 heavy chains or are derived from human IgG1
heavy chains.
6.      The isolated multispecific antibody of claim 1, wherein the second CH1 region
comprises the modification, and wherein the modification in the second CH1 domain
                                              18

comprises a mutation modifying S40 in the IMGT exon numbering system, a mutation
modifying T47 in the IMGT exon numbering system or a combination thereof.
7.      The isolated multispecific antibody of claim 6, wherein the modification in the
second CH1 domain comprises an S40T mutation in the IMGT exon numbering system, a
T47S mutation in the IMGT exon numbering system or a combination thereof.
8.      The isolated multispecific antibody of claim 6, wherein the first CH1 domain of the
bispecific antibody, the second CH1 domain or both the first and second CH1 domains are
non-immunogenic or substantially non-immunogenic in a human.
9.      A method for producing an isolated multispecific antibody comprising:
a)      obtaining a nucleic acid sequence encoding a first immunoglobulin heavy chain
        comprising a first variable region that binds a first epitope, wherein the first
        immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises an IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4 isotype
        constant domain;
b)      obtaining a second nucleic acid sequence encoding a second immunoglobulin heavy
        chain comprising a second variable region that binds a second epitope, wherein the
        second immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises an IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4
        isotype constant domain that comprises a modification in its CH1 domain that
        eradicates or reduces binding to CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent, or any
        affinity reagent targeting the human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 CH1 domain;
c)      obtaining a third nucleic acid sequence encoding an immunoglobulin light chain that
        pairs with the first and the second immunoglobulin heavy chain;
d)      introducing the first, second, and third nucleic acid sequences into a mammalian
        cell;
e)      allowing the cell to express a bispecific antibody; and
f)      isolating the bispecific antibody based on the ability of the bispecific antibody to
        bind the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent, or any affinity reagent targeting
        the human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 CH1 domain.
                                               19

10.    The method of claim 9, wherein the modification in the second CH1 domain
comprises an S40T mutation in the IMGT exon numbering system, a T47S mutation in the
IMGT exon numbering system or a combination thereof.
11.    The method of claim 10, wherein the first CH1 domain of the bispecific antibody,
the second CH1 domain or both the first and second CH1 domains are non-immunogenic or
substantially non-immunogenic in a human.
12.    The method of claim 9, where the bispecific antibody is isolated on a solid support
comprising a CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent, or any affinity reagent targeting the
human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 CH1 domain.
13.    The method of claim 12, wherein the solid support comprises a CaptureSelect@ IgG
CH1 affinity column, or any affinity reagent targeting the human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and
IgG4 CH1 domain, and the bispecific antibody is isolated employing a pH gradient.
14.    The method of claim 13, wherein the pH gradient is a step gradient comprising one
or more pH steps between pH 3 and pH 5.
15.    The method of claim 9, wherein the first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a
mutation or modification altering its binding properties to an affinity chromatography resin.
16.    The method of claims 15, wherein the first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a
mutation altering its binding properties to Protein A.
17.    The method of claims 16, wherein the first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a
H43R5 mutation altering its binding properties to Protein A.
18.    A method for isolating a bispecific antibody, comprising isolating from a disrupted
cell or a mixture of antibodies a bispecific antibody having differentially modified
IgG1,IgG2, IgG3 or IgG4 CH1 domains, wherein the differentially modified CH1 domains
are non-immunogenic or substantially non-immunogenic in a human, and wherein the
modification results in a bispecific antibody with a heterodimeric heavy chain constant
                                              20

region whose monomers have a differential affinity for the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1
affinity reagent, or any affinity reagent targeting the human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4
CH1 domain, and the bispecific antibody is isolated from the disrupted cell or the mixture
based on its affinity for the CaptureSelect@ IgG-CH1 affinity reagent, or any affinity
reagent targeting the human IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4 CH1 domain.
19.     The method of claim 18, wherein one monomer of the heterodimeric heavy chain
constant region is a human IgG1 and the other monomer of the heterodimeric heavy chain
constant region is a modified human IgG1 comprising a modification selected from the
group consisting an S40T mutation in the IMGT exon numbering system, a T47S mutation
in the IMGT exon numbering system or a combination thereof.
20.     The method of claim 15, wherein the first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a
mutation or modification altering its binding properties to an affinity chromatography resin.
21.     The method of claims 20, wherein the first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a
mutation altering its binding properties to Protein A.
22.     The method of claims 21, wherein the first immunoglobulin heavy chain comprises a
H43R5 mutation altering its binding properties to Protein A.
                                              21

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
