                                               ABSTRACT
The present invention comprises a novel (Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) device
which, in its preferred embodiment, comprises a stimulator designed to be placed on the patient's
upper calf and a pre-configured electrode array designed to provide circumferential stimulation at
the area of the upper calf. A key feature of the present invention is that the TENS device and its
associated electrode array are designed for easy, rapid, and clinically valid placement of the
electrode array by a patient seeking pain relief in the feet and/or lower legs. In a preferred
embodiment, the present invention is used for the symptomatic treatment of chronic pain caused by
painful diabetic neuropathy (PDN). Furthermore, the present invention is designed to maximize
effectiveness and usability, and to minimize interference with the patient's normal daily activities.

   WO 2013/074809                                                         PCT/US2012/065311
                                              1
              APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR RELIEVING PAIN USING
              TRANSCUTANEOUS ELECTRICAL NERVE STIMULATION
     Applicant
 5           NeuroMetrix, Inc.
     Inventors
             Shai N. Gozani
             Xuan Kong
10           Andres Aguirre
             Glenn Herb
             Marc Cryan
             Michael Williams
15   Reference to Pending Prior Patent Applications
             This patent application claims benefit of:
             (i) pending prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
     61/560,029, filed 11/15/2011 by Shai N. Gozani for SENSUS OPERATING
     MODEL (Attorney's Docket No. NEURO-59 PROV); and
20           (ii) pending prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Serial No.
     61/657,382, filed 06/08/2012 by Shai N. Gozani et al. for APPARATUS AND
     METHOD FOR RELIEVING PAIN USING TRANSCUTANEOUS
     ELECTRICAL NERVE STIMULATION (Attorney's Docket No. NEURO-60
     PROV).
25           The two (2) above-identified patent applications are hereby incorporated
     herein by reference.
     Field Of The Invention

  WO 2013/074809                                                         PCT/US2012/065311
                                              2
           This invention relates generally to Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve
   Stimulation (TENS) devices that deliver electrical currents across the intact skin
   of a patient via electrodes so as to provide symptomatic relief of chronic pain, and
   more particularly to the use of TENS devices to provide symptomatic relief of
   painful diabetic neuropathy.
   Background Of The Invention
           Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is the most common chronic
   complication of diabetes mellitus, which affects about 25 million people in the
   United States and over 300 million people worldwide. DPN affects the peripheral
   nerves, mostly in the feet and lower legs. DPN may lead to a loss of sensation
   that may trigger foot ulcers requiring amputation. DPN may also lead to severe
   and debilitating neuropathic pain.
           Pain due to DPN is called painful diabetic neuropathy (PDN). PDN
   affects about 50% of people with DPN, and 10-20% of all people with diabetes.
   PDN is generally treated pharmacologically using drugs that are typically anti
   depressants or anti-epileptics. These drugs may be difficult to dose and may have
   substantial side effects in many people. As a result, people with diabetes and
   PDN are often undertreated, and as many as 50% of people with PDN may not be
0  receiving any anti-pain therapy. Thus there is a clear need for additional
   analgesic options for the management of PDN.
           Transcutaneous Electrical Nerve Stimulation (TENS) devices apply
   electrical currents to a particular area of the human body in order to suppress
   acute and chronic pain. Although not widely used in the management of PDN,
5  recent evidence suggests that TENS should be considered as an adjunctive or
   primary therapy for patients with PDN.
           The most common form of TENS is called conventional TENS. In
   conventional TENS, electrodes are placed on the skin within, adjacent to, or

  WO 2013/074809                                                         PCT/US2012/065311
                                             3
   proximal to, the area of pain. Electrical stimulation is then delivered to the patient
   through the electrodes, with the electrical stimulation being in the form of low
   intensity (typically less than 50-60 mA), short duration (typically 50-200 [[sec)
   pulses at frequencies typically between about 10 and 200 Hz.
           The physiological principle underlying TENS is that excitation of AP
   sensory nerve fibers, primarily the deep tissue afferents, blocks transmission of
   pain signals to the brain. The most commonly cited mechanism of action is the
   "gate theory of pain" originally proposed by Melzack and Wall in 1965 (Melzack
   R, Wall PD. Pain mechanisms: a new theory. Science. 1965;150:971-979). In
   recent years, the molecular mechanisms underlying TENS analgesia have been
   investigated. It has been determined that pain signals are blocked by inhibition of
   nociceptive neurons in the spinal cord dorsal horn (DeSantana JM, Walsh DM,
   Vance C, Rakel BA, Sluka KA. Effectiveness of transcutaneous electrical nerve
   stimulation for treatment of hyperalgesia and pain. Curr Rheumatol Rep.
   2008;10(6):492-499). This process is facilitated by descending signals from the
   periaqueductal gray (PAG) and the rostroventral medial medulla (RVM). There is
   also evidence that pain signals are interrupted in the peripheral nervous system.
   Sensory afferent stimulation causes release of endogenous opioids that inhibit
   pain through activation of 6-opioid receptors. These receptors are located
0  throughout the nervous system, including the dorsal horn of the spinal cord.
   Opioid receptors are G-protein coupled receptors whose activation decreases
   neuronal activity, such as through ion channel regulation. Like the morphine
   sensitive [t-opioid receptor, the 6-opioid receptor induces analgesia, however, the
   two receptor subtypes have a different neuroanatomical distribution and abuse
5  potential. TENS also increases the extracellular concentration of the inhibitory
   neurotransmitter GABA and decreases the concentration of the excitatory
   neurotransmitters glutamate and aspartate in the spinal cord dorsal horn.

  WO 2013/074809                                                           PCT/US2012/065311
                                               4
            In a conventional TENS device, an electrical circuit generates stimulation
   pulses with specified characteristics. The pulse waveform specifications include
   intensity (mA), duration (gsec) and shape (typically monophasic or biphasic).
   The pulse pattern specifications include frequency (Hz) and length of the
   stimulation session (minutes). One or more pairs of electrodes, placed on the
   patient's skin, transduce the electrical pulses and thereby stimulate underlying
   nerves. By varying the intensity of the stimulation pulses and, to a lesser degree,
   the frequency of the stimulation pulses, the clinical benefit of TENS can be
   optimized.
            There is evidence to suggest that a major barrier to the effective use of
   TENS therapy is the disproportionate amount of effort needed to regularly apply
   TENS relative to the amount of pain relief achieved. More particularly, most
   TENS devices are designed for general purpose use, i.e., to relieve pain
   originating from various sources and at various anatomical locations. This
   necessitates a TENS system with multiple discrete components. For example, the
   TENS electrodes and the TENS stimulator are typically connected to one another
   through long lead wires that may be difficult for patients to manage, and may
   cause embarrassment for the patient if externally visible. The electrodes
   themselves are typically generic in form and function, which places the onus on
0  the patient to position the electrodes in a physiologically and clinically optimal
   arrangement. Because of these issues, general purpose TENS devices typically
   require extensive patient training and supervision by medical staff, and even with
   this training, patients are likely to forget key steps in the proper use of TENS
   devices. Bastyr et al. (U.S. Patent No. 5,487,759) attempted to overcome some of
5  these limitations by disclosing a stimulator used in conjunction with a support
   device, such as an orthopedic brace, with the support device providing mechanical
   and electrical connections between the stimulator and electrodes. Nevertheless,
   there remains a need for TENS devices that are uniquely designed for specific

  WO 2013/074809                                                          PCT/US2012/065311
                                              5
   clinical indications, and which therefore render the use of TENS in those
   applications straightforward, with minimal if any medical support.
           To achieve maximum pain relief (i.e., hypoalgesia), TENS needs to be
   delivered at an adequate stimulation intensity (Moran F, Leonard T, Hawthorne S,
   et al. Hypoalgesia in response to transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation
   (TENS) depends on stimulation intensity. JPain. 12:929-935). Intensities below
   the threshold of sensation are not clinically effective. The optimal therapeutic
   intensity is often described as one that is "strong but not painful". Most TENS
   devices rely on the patient to set the stimulation intensity, usually through a
   manual intensity control consisting of an analog intensity knob or digital intensity
   control push buttons. In either case, the patient must manually increase the
   intensity of the stimulation to what they believe to be a therapeutic level.
   Therefore, a major limitation of current TENS devices is that it may be difficult
   for many patients to determine an appropriate therapeutic stimulation intensity.
   As a result, the patients will either require substantial support from medical staff
   or they may fail to get pain relief due to an inadequate stimulation level. In an
   attempt to improve the likelihood of delivering an appropriate therapeutic
   stimulation, some TENS devices allow healthcare professionals to pre-program a
   target stimulation level. For example, Bartelt et al. (U.S. Patent No. 5,063,929)
0  disclosed a TENS device that gradually and automatically increases stimulation
   intensity to a programmed target level. However, even when a healthcare
   professional programs the target stimulation level, that level may not suffice after
   repeated use of the TENS device due to changes in the patient's pain and
   physiology. In an attempt to overcome some of these issues and automate
5  stimulation intensity control, King et al. (U.S. Patent No. 7,720,548) proposed a
   method of regulating stimulation parameters, such as stimulus intensity, based on
   an electrical impedance signal. However, the clinical usefulness of this method is
   unclear as the linkage between impedance and therapeutic stimulation intensity is

  WO 2013/074809                                                          PCT/US2012/065311
                                              6
   unproven. For the reasons outlined above, current TENS devices suffer from
   significant limitations with respect to ensuring that the stimulation intensity is
   within the therapeutic range.
           Thus there is a need for a new and improved TENS device which
   addresses the issues associated with prior art TENS devices.
   Summary Of The Invention
           The present invention comprises a novel TENS device which, in its
   preferred embodiment, comprises a stimulator designed to be placed on the
   patient's upper calf and a pre-configured electrode array designed to provide
   circumferential stimulation at the area of the upper calf. A key feature of the
   present invention is that the TENS device and its associated electrode array are
   designed for easy, rapid, and clinically valid placement of the electrode array by a
   patient seeking pain relief in the feet and/or lower legs. In a preferred
   embodiment, the present invention is used for the symptomatic treatment of
   chronic pain caused by PDN. Furthermore, the present invention is designed to
   maximize effectiveness and usability, and to minimize interference with the
   patient's normal daily activities.
           With a TENS device, the most important stimulation parameter is the
0  intensity of the stimulation, which must be in the therapeutic range to maximize
   pain relief. The present invention provides a novel method for determining the
   stimulation intensity so as to maximize the probability that the stimulation
   intensity is in the therapeutic range. In a preferred embodiment of the present
   invention, the patient identifies their sensation threshold and then the therapeutic
5  intensity is estimated from the identified sensational threshold. The patient also
   has the option of making further refinements in the stimulation intensity.
           Habituation refers to a decrease in sensory perception of a stimulus after
   prolonged presentation of the stimulus. In a preferred embodiment of the present

  WO 2013/074809                                                         PCT/US2012/065311
                                            7
   invention, in order to overcome habituation, the stimulation intensity is designed
   to gradually increase throughout the entire therapy session, in contrast to prior art
   practices of requiring the patient to manually increase intensity periodically
   during the therapy session. The present invention also learns the manner and
   frequency of the manual adjustment of the desired stimulation intensity so as to
   customize the parameter sets that modify stimulation in order to combat
   habituation.
           In one preferred form of the present invention, there is provided apparatus
   for transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation in humans, the apparatus
   comprising:
           a housing;
           stimulation means mounted within the housing for electrically stimulating
   nerves;
           an electrode array releasably mounted to the housing and connectable to
   the stimulation means, the electrode array comprising a plurality of electrodes for
   electrical stimulation of nerves;
           control means mounted to the housing and electrically connected to the
   stimulation means for controlling at least one characteristic of the stimulation
   means;
0          monitoring means mounted to the housing and electrically connected to
   the stimulation means for monitoring at least one characteristic of the stimulation
   means;
           user interface means mounted to the housing and electrically connected to
   the control means for controlling the stimulation means;
5          display means mounted to the housing and electrically connected to the
   control means and the monitoring means for displaying the status of the
   stimulations means; and
           a strap attached to the housing;

  WO 2013/074809                                                         PCT/US2012/065311
                                             8
           wherein the strap is configured to hold the housing, stimulation means and
   electrode array at a specific anatomical location to treat pain.
           In another preferred form of the present invention, there is provided
   apparatus for providing transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation to a patient,
   the apparatus comprising:
           a housing;
           stimulation means mounted within the housing for generating electrical
   pulses;
           an electrode array releasably mounted to the housing and connectable to
   the stimulation means, the electrode array comprising a plurality of electrodes for
   applying the electrical pulse generated by the stimulation means to the skin of a
   patient; and
           a strap attached to the housing;
           wherein the strap is configured to hold the electrode array against the skin
   of the patient so as to treat pain when the stimulation means generates electrical
   pulses.
           In another preferred form of the present invention, there is provided
   electrode array for transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation in humans, the
   electrode array comprising:
0          a substrate;
           at least one electrode mounted to the substrate representing a cathode;
           at least one electrode mounted to the substrate representing an anode;
           connection means for connecting the electrodes representing the cathode
   and anode to electrical stimulation means for electrically stimulating nerves;
5          wherein the substrate and the electrodes representing the cathode and
   anode are designed to provide electrical stimulation at a specific anatomical
   location and where a minimum distance between electrodes representing the
   cathode and anode is maintained.

  WO 2013/074809                                                           PCT/US2012/065311
                                              9
           In another preferred form of the present invention, there is provided a
   method for determining a therapeutic stimulation intensity for transcutaneous
   electrical nerve stimulation in humans, the method comprising the steps of:
           automatically increasing the stimulation intensity from a first stimulation
   intensity;
           identifying at least one electrotactile perception threshold; and
           calculating a therapeutic stimulation intensity from said at least one
   electrotactile perception threshold.
           In another preferred form of the present invention, there is provided a
   method for determining a therapeutic stimulation intensity for transcutaneous
   electrical nerve stimulation in a patient, the method comprising the steps of:
           applying electrical stimulation to the patient at a first stimulation intensity;
           automatically increasing the intensity of the electrical stimulation applied
   to the patient from the first stimulation intensity to a second intensity at which the
   electrotactile sensation threshold is identified; and
           calculating a therapeutic stimulation intensity from said second intensity
   level.
           In another preferred form of the present invention, there is provided
   a method for treating pain in a patient using transcutaneous electrical nerve
0  stimulation, the method comprising the steps of:
           automatically determining a therapeutic stimulation intensity;
           initiating electrical stimulation at the therapeutic stimulation intensity;
           adjusting the therapeutic stimulation intensity under patient control;
           automatically increasing the therapeutic stimulation intensity at a pre
5  determined rate; and
           continuing electrical stimulation for a period of time.
   Brief Description Of The Drawings

    WO 2013/074809                                                        PCT/US2012/065311
                                              10
             These and other objects and features of the present invention will be more
     fully disclosed or rendered obvious by the following detailed description of the
     preferred embodiments of the invention, which is to be considered together with
     the accompanying drawings wherein like numbers refer to like parts, and further
     wherein:
             Fig. 1 is a schematic view showing a novel TENS apparatus formed in
     accordance with the present invention;
             Fig. 2 is a schematic view showing an electrode array being electrically
     and mechanically connected to the stimulator of the TENS apparatus shown in Fig.
  >   1;
             Fig. 3 is a schematic view showing the TENS apparatus of Fig. 1 mounted
     to the upper calf of a patient;
             Fig. 4 is a schematic view showing the biphasic, symmetrical, rectangular
     pulses with regulated current generated by the stimulator of the TENS apparatus
     of Fig. 1;
             Fig. 5 is a schematic view showing the pulse train provided by the
     stimulator of the TENS apparatus of Fig. 1;
             Fig. 6 is a schematic view of the underside of the electrode array of the
     TENS apparatus of Fig. 1;
0            Fig. 7 is a photograph showing the top side and the underside of the
     electrode array of the TENS apparatus of Fig. 1;
             Fig. 8 is a schematic graph showing the relationship between electrotactile
     perception and electrical stimulation intensity; and
             Fig. 9 is a schematic view showing the overall operation of the TENS
5    apparatus of Fig. 1.
     Detailed Description Of The Invention

  WO 2013/074809                                                       PCT/US2012/065311
                                              11
           Looking first at Fig. 1, there is shown a novel TENS apparatus 100 which
   comprises one preferred form of the present invention. TENS apparatus 100
   generally comprises three components: a stimulator 105, a strap 110, and an
   electrode array 120.
           Stimulator 105 comprises three mechanically and electrically inter
   connected compartments 101, 102, and 103. Compartments 101, 102, 103 are
   inter-connected by hinge mechanisms 104, thereby allowing TENS assembly 100
   to conform to the curved anatomy of a user's leg. In the preferred embodiment,
   compartment 102 contains stimulation hardware (except for a battery) and user
   interface elements 106, 108. In the preferred embodiment, compartments 101 and
    103 are smaller, auxiliary compartments that house a battery for powering the
   stimulation hardware and other ancillary elements.
           As shown in Fig. 2, electrode array 120 comprises electrical contacts 210,
   212 that snap into mating ports 130, 132 provided on the underside of central
   stimulator compartment 102. When snapped together, stimulator 105 and
   electrode array 120 are mechanically and electrically connected. This direct
   electro-mechanical connection between stimulator 105 and electrode array 120
   eliminates the need for inconvenient lead wires found in other TENS devices.
           Central stimulator compartment 102 also has a USB port 133 on its
0  underside for (i) charging the battery contained in one of the outboard
   compartments 101, 103, (ii) downloading of utilization data, (iii) configuring the
   stimulator 105, and (iv) uploading of software upgrades. In the preferred
   embodiment, USB port 133 is not electrically isolated from the stimulator
   hardware in order to simplify the design and lower manufacturing costs.
5  However, the location of USB port 133 on the underside of central stimulator
   compartment 102 prevents use of the USB port when an electrode array 120 is
   attached to stimulator 105, e.g., as may be understood from Fig. 2. As a result,
   electrical safety is maintained because stimulator 105 cannot be used to deliver

  WO 2013/074809                                                           PCT/US2012/065311
                                             12
   stimulation to a patient via electrode array 120 while stimulator 105 is
   simultaneously connected to another device, e.g., a power supply, via USB port
    133.
           Looking again at Fig. 1, stimulator 105 includes a push button 106 for
   control of electrical stimulation, and LEDs 108 for indicating stimulation status
   and providing other feedback to the patient. Although the preferred embodiment
   shown in Fig. 1 comprises a single push button 106 and two LEDs 108, other
   constructions may also be used, e.g., two or more push buttons, etc. Additional
   user interface elements (e.g., an LCD display, audio feedback through a beeper or
   voice output, haptic devices such as a vibrating motor, etc.) have been
   contemplated and are considered to be within the scope of the present invention.
   In the preferred embodiment, main compartment 102 of stimulator 105 includes
   an accelerometer (not shown), preferably in the form of a semiconductor chip, to
   detect user gestures such as tapping (or slapping) on central compartment 102.
   Additional uses for the accelerometer include the detection of certain movement
   characteristics of TENS apparatus 100, and therefore identification of patient
   orientation and activity, such as lying, standing, walking, gait, etc., which permits
   modifying the stimulation characteristics of stimulator 105 in order to optimize
   stimulation for the identified patient state. In addition to the user interface
0  elements noted above, the electrical stimulation itself can serve a user interface
   function. More particularly, the patient will generally recognize changes in the
   stimulation pattern. Thus, for example, the stimulator 105 can indicate to the
   patient that the stimulation intensity has reached a maximum value by pulsing
   stimulation on and off with a fixed on and off period (e.g., 0.5 seconds) for a short
5  period of time (e.g., 3 seconds).
           In the preferred embodiment, and still looking now at Fig. 1, the user
   interface elements (e.g., push button 106 and LEDs 108) are physically located on
   stimulator 105. In alternative embodiments, one or more of the user interface

  WO 2013/074809                                                          PCT/US2012/065311
                                             13
   components may be remotely located. These remote user interface elements may
   be connected to stimulator 105 through a variety of means including a physical
   link such as a wire, a wireless link such as a Bluetooth* connection, an optical
   link such as an infra-red (IR) connection, etc. These remote user interface
   elements may be located on dedicated devices specifically designed to control
   stimulator 105 such as a custom remote control, or they may be incorporated into
   existing devices used by the patient such as a smart phone, a tablet computer, etc.
           As seen in Fig. 3, strap 110 serves to securely and comfortably attach
   stimulator 105 to the patient's leg in the upper calf region 140. In the preferred
   embodiment, strap 110 is constructed from material that includes Velcro which
   allows the device to be easily secured to a variety of different calf sizes. It is also
   possible to make the strap removable from stimulator 105 and thereby offer straps
   of varying sizes to more readily adapt to particularly small or large calves. Strap
    110 may also include a mechanism (not shown), such as a clip, for holding the
   ends of electrode array 120 in place. Strap 110 may also include electronic means
   (not shown) that determine calf circumference and/or other biometric data (e.g.,
   skin temperature) and communicate this data to stimulator 105 for optimization of
   stimulation parameters.
           The preferred embodiment of the invention is designed to be worn on the
0  patient's upper calf 140 as shown in Fig. 3. A patient may wear a TENS
   apparatus 100 on one or both legs depending on the nature and level of their pain,
   and as directed by their physician. In the case of two TENS apparatus 100, the
   devices may communicate with one another through a wireless link to
   synchronize their operation. TENS apparatus 100, comprised of stimulator 105,
5  electrode array 120 and strap 110, is secured to upper calf 140 by placing the
   apparatus in position and then tightening strap 110 so as to secure electrode array
    120 against the skin of the patient. The particular rotational disposition of TENS
   apparatus 100 on upper calf 140 is not clinically important as the construction and

  WO 2013/074809                                                          PCT/US2012/065311
                                             14
   operation of electrode array 120 is intentionally designed to be independent of the
   exact rotational position of TENS apparatus 100. More particularly, and as will
   hereinafter be discussed in further detail, electrode array 120 is deliberately sized
   and configured so that it will apply appropriate electrical stimulation to the
   appropriate anatomy of the patient regardless of the specific rotational position of
   TENS apparatus 100 on the calf of the patient.
           Stimulator 105 is a microprocessor-controlled circuit which generates
   biphasic, symmetrical, rectangular pulses with regulated current, as shown in Fig.
   4. This pulse waveform is charge-balanced which prevents iontophoretic build-up
   under the electrodes of the electrode array 120 that can lead to skin irritation and
   potential skin damage. Regulated current pulses provide more stable stimulation
   than regulated voltage pulses, because the stimulation current is independent of
   the electrode-skin impedance, which typically changes during the course of a
   therapy session. In order to address a wide variety of skin types and electrode
   quality (due to repeat use and air exposure), the maximum output voltage is 100V
   and the maximum output current is 100 mA. Finally, the pulse pattern is
   continuous stimulation with randomly varying inter-pulse intervals such that the
   frequency of stimulation has a uniform probability distribution between 60 Hz
   and 100 Hz. Alternatively, the frequency of stimulation may have a Gaussian
0  probability distribution between 60 Hz and 100 Hz, or some other probability
   distribution. The benefit of providing frequency stimulation with randomly
   varying inter-pulse intervals (versus frequency stimulation with constant inter
   pulse intervals) is that the former type of stimulation may lead to less nerve
   habituation, which is a physiological decrease in nerve responsiveness to
5  stimulation. Preferably the gap between the positive and negative phases of the
   pulse pattern is relatively small and uniform, although the gap may be omitted, or
   modified, if desired. In this respect it should be appreciated that the presence of
   the gap between the positive and negative phases of the pulse pattern is primarily

  WO 2013/074809                                                          PCT/US2012/065311
                                             15
   a consequence of simplified circuit design. Although the preferred embodiment
   of stimulator 105 has specific technical characteristics, other technical
   specifications (such as for the pulse waveform shape, maximum output voltage,
   maximum output current, and pulse pattern) have been contemplated and are
   considered to be within the scope of the present invention. In another
   embodiment, the stimulation attributes of stimulator 105 are programmable, with
   the stimulator being connectable (such as through the USB port) to a computer or
   mobile device (e.g., smart phone, tablet computer, etc.) running appropriate setup
   software. In this fashion, the stimulation attributes of stimulator 105 can be
   customized to the user's pain characteristics, physiology, and preferences.
           Fig. 5 is a schematic view of an exemplary pulse train 480 provided by
   stimulator 105 during a therapy session and shows the waveform of two
   individual pulses 490, each of which has the spaced biphasic waveform shown in
   Fig. 4. Pulses of fixed or randomly varying frequencies persist throughout the
   therapy session duration 482. The intensity of the stimulation (i.e., the amplitude
   of the current delivered by stimulator 105) is adjusted in response to patient input
   and for habituation compensation, as is described below.
           A schematic of the preferred embodiment of electrode array 120 is shown
   in Fig. 6. Electrode array 120 preferably comprises four discrete electrodes 202,
0  204, 206, 208, preferably each electrode having an equal surface area. Electrodes
   202, 204, 206, 208 are connected in pairs so that electrodes 204 and 206
   (representing the cathode) are electrically connected to one another (e.g., via
   connector 205), and so that electrodes 202 and 208 (representing the anode) are
   electrically connected to one another (e.g., via connector 207). It is understood
5  that when the polarity of the electrical pulse is reversed, the roles of the cathode
   and anode electrodes are also reversed. It should be appreciated that electrodes
   202, 204, 206 and 208 are appropriately sized, and connected in pairs, so as to
   ensure adequate skin coverage regardless of the rotational position of electrode

  WO 2013/074809                                                           PCT/US2012/065311
                                              16
   array 120 on the leg of a patient. Furthermore, it should be appreciated that
   electrodes 202, 204, 206 and 208 are not connected in an interleaved fashion, but
   rather are connected so that the two inside electrodes 204 and 206 are connected
   to one another, and so that the two outside electrodes 202 and 208 are connected
   to one another, so as to ensure that if the two outer electrodes 202 and 208 should
   inadvertently come into contact with one another, such as might occur in a patient
   with a thin calf, the electrode array will not be shorted out. Electrical current (i.e.,
   for electrical stimulation to the tissue) is provided to the electrode pairs by
   connectors 210, 212 (see also Fig. 2) which mate with complementary connectors
    130, 132 on stimulator 105 (see also Fig. 2). Connector 210 is electrically
   connected with electrodes 204 and 206, and connector 212 is electrically
   connected with electrodes 202 and 208. Stimulator 105 generates electrical
   currents that are passed through electrodes 204, 206 and electrodes 202, 208 via
   connectors 210, 212, respectively. The individual electrodes 202, 204, 206, 208
   are preferably constructed from a hatched silver pattern overlaid with a
   conductive hydrogel. The backing 214 for electrode array 120 is preferably
   Mylar on which the aforementioned silver patterns are printed. Electrical
   connections between the electrodes 202, 204, 206, 208 and the connectors 210,
   212 (i.e., connectors 205, 207) are formed by printed silver traces which are
0  covered with an insulating material. Additional embodiments of electrode array
    120 have been contemplated including the use of varying numbers of electrodes,
   different electrode sizes and different inter-electrode spacing, and alternative
   electrode silver patterns such as a solid, and are considered to be within the scope
   of the present invention.
5          Electrode array 120 is designed for circumferential placement around the
   patient's upper calf as shown in Fig. 3. The design of electrode array 120 ensures
   that a minimum distance is always maintained between the electrodes 204, 206
   forming the cathode and the electrodes 202, 208 forming the anode. In the

  WO 2013/074809                                                          PCT/US2012/065311
                                              17
   preferred embodiment, this minimum distance is 40 mm. In this respect it should
   be noted that a minimum cathode-to-anode distance is critical for proper TENS
   operation because if the cathode and the anode are too close to one another, the
   stimulation current does not penetrate sufficiently deeply into the tissue and the
   ability to stimulate nerves is compromised.
            When stimulator 105 and electrode array 120 are connected together as
   shown in Fig. 2, and placed on the patient (using strap 110) as shown in Fig. 3,
   the individual electrodes 202, 204, 206, 208 are positioned to deliver stimulation
   to the L4, L5, SI and S2 sensory dermatomes which provide sensation to the foot
   and lower leg. As a result, the invention is particularly suitable for providing
   analgesia in the foot and lower leg, which supports its preferred use for the
   symptomatic treatment of chronic pain due to PDN.
            The use of the preferred embodiment of the present invention is
   straightforward. The user snaps an electrode array 120 into stimulator 105 (Fig.
   2), thereby establishing a secure mechanical and electrical contact between the
   two components. Using strap 110, this assembly is then placed on the upper calf
   of the patient (Fig. 3) so that the electrodes of electrode array 120 are securely
   disposed against the skin of the patient . Stimulation is initiated by pressing the
   control push button 106. Upon completion of the therapy session, TENS
0  apparatus 100 is removed from the patient and electrode array 120 is detached
   from stimulator 105. Electrode array 120 may be used multiple times on a single
   patient.
            A major objective of the present invention is to simplify the user interface,
   and therefore a one-button interface is preferred. Conventional TENS devices
5  typically have multiple user interface elements consisting of on/off switches,
   buttons to increase/decrease the stimulation intensity, dials to change the
   stimulation intensity, and other controls to regulate device function. The correct
   use of such prior art user interfaces requires that the patient have unfettered

  WO 2013/074809                                                          PCT/US2012/065311
                                             18
   physical and visual access to the device, which limits placement of the device to
   certain anatomical locations, such as on a belt clip. By comparison, the present
   invention utilizes a simple one-button interface that does not require visual
   confirmation and is easily operated with the device placed anywhere on the body,
   including the lower leg as shown in Fig. 3. In the preferred embodiment of the
   present invention, which utilizes a one-button interface, the device is powered on
   (either from a low power stand-by state or from an off-state) by a button press.
   Stimulation intensity is controlled through short and long button presses. More
   particularly, holding the button down increases the stimulation intensity as long as
   the button is depressed, such as at the rate of 1 milliamp per second. Pressing and
   quickly releasing (i.e., "tapping") the button decreases the stimulation intensity by
   a fixed amount, such as 1 milliamp per button press or by a fixed percentage, such
   as 2% per button press. In this fashion, the stimulation intensity can be easily
   controlled by the patient with a single push button (i.e., push button 106). The
   present invention further discloses the provision of an accelerometer to detect user
   gestures such as slapping (or tapping) the stimulator enclosure 102. In the
   preferred embodiment, the detection of a slap immediately stops stimulation.
            There is no universal TENS stimulation intensity that provides an effective,
   yet tolerable, therapeutic dose for all patients. Therefore, in order to obtain the
0  clinical benefit of TENS therapy, it is essential to set the stimulation intensity to a
   patient-specific level. A stimulation intensity that elicits a "strong but not
   painful" sensation will provide effective pain relief, and is therefore suggestive of
   an intensity that is within the therapeutic window. The traditional approach in
   TENS is for the medical staff to train patients on how to manually increase the
5  intensity of the TENS stimulation until the patients perceive the desired "strong
   but not painful" sensation. It is then the responsibility of the patient to thereafter
   perform this procedure as necessary, e.g., at home when TENS therapy is needed.
   However, this prior art approach requires the use of expensive medical resources

  WO 2013/074809                                                           PCT/US2012/065311
                                               19
   (i.e., medical staff time) and is error prone inasmuch as previously-trained
   patients may forget how to determine an appropriate therapeutic intensity. As a
   result, a major objective of the present invention is to automatically and reliably
   set the stimulation intensity within the therapeutic range.
            The present invention discloses a method for automatically setting the
   stimulation intensity to a therapeutic level, a procedure which is sometimes
   hereinafter referred to as "configuration". This method is based on the concept of
   mapping a patient's electrotactile perception scale, on which the "strong but not
   painful" sensation is represented, to an electrical stimulation intensity scale as
   measured in milliamps. In this respect, the term "electrotactile" is meant to refer
   to a patient's sensation of electrical stimulation. There are three key measurable
   electrotactile perception levels: electrotactile sensation threshold (i.e., the lowest
   level of electrical stimulation which the patient can sense), electrotactile pain
   threshold (i.e., the level of electrical stimulation which causes pain to the patient),
   and electrotactile tolerance threshold (i.e., the maximum level of electrical
   stimulation which can be tolerated by a patient). An optimal TENS stimulation
   intensity is located between the electrotactile sensation threshold and the
   electrotactile pain threshold.
            Fig. 8 shows a curve 300 illustrating the relationship between electrical
0  stimulation intensity 302 and electrotactile perception 304. The slope of curve
   300 is steep near the electrotactile sensation threshold 306, so the range 308 of
   stimulation intensities, I(s), which may first elicit sensation in the patient is
   generally narrow. As a result, the electrotactile sensation threshold 306, and the
   corresponding stimulation intensity 308, i.e., I(s), can be reliably determined.
5           The electrotactile pain threshold 310, which is defined as the level where
   electrical stimulation sensation changes from comfortable to painful, is not as
   well-defined and is influenced by multiple physiological and psychological
   factors. As a result, the curve 300 is not as steep in the electrotactile pain

  WO 2013/074809                                                           PCT/US2012/065311
                                             20
   threshold region 310 as in the electrotactile sensation threshold region 306. This
   can lead to a wide range 312 of stimulation intensities, I(p), at which the transition
   to pain occurs. For this reason, it may be difficult to reliably measure the
   electrotactile pain threshold 310, and the corresponding stimulation intensity 312.
   Another drawback with measuring the electrotactile pain threshold 310 is that it
   necessitates stimulation with current intensities that are at the upper limit of the
   patient's comfortable range and, due to the variation in the exact pain threshold
   310, may occasionally be perceived as painful. Consequently, a patient may
   consistently underestimate his/her pain threshold, leading to a stimulation level
   which is below the optimal therapeutic range if the therapeutic level is estimated
   from the electrotactile pain threshold 310.
            Since the stimulation intensity I(s) associated with the electrotactile
   sensation threshold 306 can be reliably estimated, a target therapeutic stimulation
   intensity I(t), which provides a "strong but not painful" sensation, may be
   calculated by adding an intensity offset I(o) to the stimulation intensity I(s)
   associated with the electrotactile sensation threshold. In other words, where I(s)
   is the stimulation intensity associated with the electrotactile sensation threshold,
   an intensity offset I(o) may be added to the stimulation intensity I(s) so as to
   determine the stimulation intensity I(t) which is "strong but not painful", i.e.,
0  therapeutically effective and yet comfortable for the patient. This is a new and
   innovative method for determining a stimulation intensity that is strong but not
   painful to the patient.
            A preferred embodiment of this procedure for automatically setting the
   stimulation intensity to a therapeutic level is to gradually increase the stimulation
5  intensity from 0 mA until the patient indicates that the stimulation is first felt, i.e.,
   that the electrotactile sensation threshold has been reached, such as by using the
   push button 106. In a preferred embodiment, the stimulation intensity is increased
   in a geometric progression. For example, the stimulation intensity may increase

  WO 2013/074809                                                            PCT/US2012/065311
                                               21
   by 5% every second (i.e., stimulation intensity is 1.05 times the prior stimulation
   intensity). The benefit of a geometric progression is that it better matches the
   exponential relationship of stimulus intensity and electrotactile sensation (i.e., the
   so-called "psychophysical power law") than does a linear increase in intensity
   (e.g., 1 mA per second). The procedure can be repeated multiple times to allow a
   more accurate estimate of the electrotactile sensation threshold and the associated
   intensity I(s), such as by taking the mean or median of multiple measurements. In
   a preferred embodiment, the first determination of the electrotactile sensation
   threshold is discarded because the patient may not be familiar with the perception
   of electrical stimulation and may therefore underestimate or overestimate the
   correct level.
            An increment of stimulation intensity, i.e., an intensity offset I(o), is then
   added to the stimulation intensity I(s) associated with the electrotactile sensation
   threshold so as to estimate the therapeutic intensity, I(t), 316.
            In a preferred embodiment, the stimulation intensity offset I(o) is a
   constant for all patients. Because sensory perception typically varies in a
   logarithmic fashion, the relationship between the therapeutic intensity, I(t), and
   the sensation threshold intensity, I(s), is expressed as a ratio (e.g., 2), or in
   decibels (e.g., 6 dB), where the ratio =   10 (dB/20
0           In another preferred embodiment, the stimulation intensity offset I(o)
   varies according to manual changes in the stimulation intensity made by the
   patient. As an example, if, after a first determination of the therapeutic intensity
   (i.e., by adding a default offset I(o) to the stimulation intensity I(s) associated with
   the electrotactile sensation threshold 306), the patient then manually increases the
5  stimulation intensity (as determined by the above procedure) during a subsequent
   therapy session, it is likely that the optimal intensity offset for that patient is
   larger than the default offset. Therefore, in a subsequent determination of the
   therapeutic intensity, a larger stimulation intensity offset is used. Similarly, if,

  WO 2013/074809                                                           PCT/US2012/065311
                                              22
   after a first determination of the therapeutic intensity (i.e., by adding a default
   offset I(o) to the stimulation intensity I(s) associated with the electrotactile
   sensation threshold 306), the patient then manually decreases the stimulation
   intensity during a subsequent therapy session, it is likely that the optimal intensity
   offset for that patient is smaller than the default value. Therefore, in a subsequent
   determination of the therapeutic intensity, a smaller stimulation intensity offset is
   used. In this fashion, the therapeutic intensity estimated from the sensation
   threshold is adaptive and responsive to the patient's input.
            Additional embodiments of the present invention have been contemplated
   wherein the stimulation intensity offset I(o) is determined as a function of
   demographic or biometric variables such as the gender of the patient,
   circumference of the calf of the patient, calf temperature, and level and type of
   activity (e.g., rest, sleep, walking). As an example, it is known that males have
   higher electrotactile thresholds than females, and therefore the stimulation
   intensity offset I(o) can be set to gender specific values wherein the male intensity
   offset is greater than the female intensity offset. As another example, a patient
   with a large calf is likely to require a higher stimulation intensity level than a
   patient with a smaller calf due to the distance between the skin and the underlying
   nerves which are to be stimulated. Therefore, the calf size (which, in one
0  preferred form of the invention, may be electronically measured by the strap 120
   and communicated to the stimulator 105) may be used as an input to determine
   the stimulation intensity offset to be used for that patient. As yet another example,
   it is known that electrotactile thresholds are inversely related to the temperature of
   the patient, which may be approximated by measuring the patient's skin surface
5  temperature. Therefore, the stimulation intensity offset can be increased (for
   lower patient temperatures) or decreased (for higher patient temperatures) as a
   function of the skin surface temperature to address these temperature-dependent
   changes in electrotactile perception. The skin surface temperature can be

  WO 2013/074809                                                            PCT/US2012/065311
                                               23
   measured with a non-contact infrared thermosensor (e.g., MLX90615, Melexis
   Semiconductors, Belgium) or a contact digital thermosensor (e.g., DS 1820,
   Maxim, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA), which can be embedded in the strap 110 or the
   enclosure of stimulator 105. Although the use of skin surface temperature is
   described with respect to estimation of the therapeutic intensity from the sensation
   threshold, additional embodiments of the present invention have been
   contemplated in which skin surface temperature is used to continuously adjust the
   stimulation intensity during a therapeutic session to account for temperature
   changes.
           Once a therapeutic intensity level I(t) is determined, TENS apparatus 100
   is ready to be used for therapeutic purposes. The patient may re-establish the
   therapeutic intensity, i.e., I(t), from time to time. It should be noted that a TENS
   device can be used without automatic determination of the therapeutic intensity
   level by using a universal intensity level, such as a maximum safe therapeutic
   intensity. However, such a fixed approach is severely limited as described above.
           In a preferred embodiment, when a patient initiates a treatment session,
   the stimulation intensity will steadily ramp up to the target intensity, I(t), 316,
   where the target intensity has been determined by previously conducting
   electrotactile perception mapping for that patient (which identified the stimulation
0  intensity I(s) associated with the sensation threshold) and then adding the desired
   intensity offset I(o) so as to establish the therapeutic stimulation intensity I(t) to
   be used for that patient. The stimulation intensity should gradually increase to the
   target intensity (i.e., the therapeutic stimulation intensity) I(t) over a sufficiently
   long period of time such that the patient will not be surprised by the stimulation or
5  become uncomfortable with the stimulation. In the preferred embodiment, the
   stimulation intensity increases to the target intensity over a time period of 1
   minute, and this is done in three phases. In the first phase, the stimulation
   intensity increases to 90% of the sensation threshold in 5 seconds. These intensity

  WO 2013/074809                                                           PCT/US2012/065311
                                              24
   levels are sub-sensation threshold and therefore should not be perceived by the
   patient. In the second phase, the stimulation intensity increases from 90% to
    112% (+1 dB) of the sensation threshold in 10 seconds. These stimulation
   intensities are near the sensation threshold and should be minimally perceived by
   the patient and will not be uncomfortable. In the third and final phase, the
   stimulation intensity increases from 112% of the sensation threshold to the target
   intensity (i.e., the therapeutic stimulation intensity). This gradual increase in
   stimulation intensity gives the patient the opportunity to become comfortable with
   the stimulation and avoids startling the patient.
            In the preferred embodiment, the patient may further refine the stimulation
   intensity by increasing or decreasing the stimulation intensity using push button
    106. In a preferred embodiment, the stimulation intensity cannot be decreased
   below an intensity "floor" which ensures that the stimulation intensity remains in
   a likely therapeutic range. As an example, the intensity floor can be set to 12%
   (1dB) above the sensation threshold.
            A novel benefit of determining the electrotactile sensation threshold in the
   foregoing manner is that the likely therapeutic benefit of the stimulation intensity
   used by the patient, particularly if manually modified by the patient from the
   automatic level determined as described above, can be evaluated. In the preferred
0  embodiment, the utilization data stored by the stimulator 105 includes the
   stimulation intensity of each therapy session. As such, when the utilization data is
   uploaded to a computer, the average therapy level for that patient can be
   calculated and reported as, for example, a decibel level over the sensation
   threshold. The patient's physician can then assess this value against the pain
5  relief obtained by the patient and make appropriate clinical recommendations.
   For example, if the patient has a low therapy level (e.g., 2 dB above the sensation
   threshold intensity, I(s)) and the patient is not obtaining pain relief, the physician

  WO 2013/074809                                                         PCT/US2012/065311
                                             25
   may then suggest that the patient re-establish their therapeutic intensity using the
   configuration procedure described above.
           Habituation refers to a decrease in the sensory perception of a stimulus by
   the patient after the prolonged presentation of the stimulus to the patient. As
   applied to TENS therapy, habituation may cause a decrease in pain relief
   following prolonged stimulation at the same therapeutic intensity. In traditional
   TENS devices, patients are instructed to manually increase the stimulation
   intensity from time to time if their perception of the stimulation decreases. This
   places the onus on the patient, who is forced to repeatedly re-engage with the
   TENS device, or they may entirely forget to adjust the intensity of the TENS
   device.
           Significantly, the present invention includes a method for providing
   automatic habituation compensation, which consists of an automatic gradual
   increase in the stimulation intensity over the course of a stimulation session. In
   the preferred embodiment, the stimulation intensity is increased geometrically
   with time. In other words, the stimulation intensity is multiplied by a fixed factor
   per unit time. For example, the stimulation intensity may be increased by the
   factor 1.004 for every minute of a therapy session. This equates to an
   approximately 27% (2 dB) increase in stimulation intensity over a 60 minute
0  therapy session. In another embodiment, the stimulation intensity is increased by
   a fixed amount, such as 0.5 milliamps, for every minute of the therapy session. In
   another embodiment, the rate of increase is adjusted to account for manual
   changes in the stimulation intensity. For example, if the patient decreases the
   stimulation intensity in the middle of the therapy session, then the automatic rate
5  of increase may be too high for this patient and should be decreased for
   subsequent therapy sessions. Similarly, if the patient increases the stimulation
   intensity in the middle of the therapy session, then the automatic rate of increase
   may be too low for this patient and should be increased for subsequent therapy

  WO 2013/074809                                                          PCT/US2012/065311
                                              26
   sessions. In this fashion, the automatic habituation compensation is adaptive and
   responsive to the patient's physiology.
            Fig. 9 provides an overall view of the operation of the preferred
   embodiment of the present invention. First, as shown at 450, the patient's
   electrotactile perception thresholds are mapped to stimulation intensities, i.e., the
   electrotactile sensation threshold is mapped to a stimulation intensity I(s), and the
   therapeutic stimulation intensity I(t) is determined, i.e., by adding an intensity
   offset I(o) to the stimulation intensity I(s). Thus, upon entering the first therapy
   session 465, the therapeutic intensity level has already been automatically
   calculated for that patient. During the first phase 462 of first therapy session 465,
   the patient may adjust the stimulation intensity using the user interface controls
   (e.g., push button 106). The stimulation intensity at the end of the this first phase
   462, which typically lasts for 3 minutes, is stored and becomes the therapeutic
   intensity level for the next therapy session 467. Habituation compensation, as
   previously described, occurs throughout the rest of the therapy session (i.e.,
   during phase 464 of first therapy session 465) and subsequent therapy sessions
   467. The patient has the option of repeating the electrotactile perception mapping
   phase 450, which will invoke a recalculation of the therapeutic stimulation
   intensity I(s), after one or more therapy sessions 467.
0
                        Modifications Of The Preferred Embodiments
            It should be understood that many additional changes in the details,
   materials, steps and arrangements of parts, which have been herein described and
   illustrated in order to explain the nature of the present invention, may be made by
5  those skilled in the art while still remaining within the principles and scope of the
   invention.

                               - 27
CLAIMS
     1.   A method for determining a therapeutic stimulation
intensity for transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation in
humans, the method comprising the steps of:
     applying transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation to a
patient at a first stimulation intensity;
     automatically increasing the stimulation intensity from
said first stimulation intensity until an electrotactile
sensation threshold is identified by the patient;  and
     after the patient identifies the electrotactile sensation
threshold, and without any further interaction from the patient,
determining the therapeutic  stimulation intensity from said
electrotactile sensation threshold identified by the patient by
automatically adding a pre-determined intensity offset to the
stimulation intensity associated with said electrotactile
sensation threshold identified by the patient.
     2.   A method according to claim 1 wherein the
electrotactile sensation threshold is identified by the patient
indicating the stimulation intensity at which stimulation is
first perceived.
     3.   A method according to claim 1 wherein the first
stimulation intensity is 0 milliamps.
     4.   A method according to claim 1 wherein the first
stimulation intensity is 50%  of a previously measured

                              - 28
stimulation intensity at which an electrotactile sensation
threshold is identified by the patient.
     5.   A method according to claim 1 wherein the first
stimulation intensity is 10 milliamps lower than a previously
measured stimulation intensity at which an electrotactile
sensation threshold is identified by the patient.
     6.   A method according to claim 1 wherein the automatic
increase in stimulation intensity is at a constant rate.
     7.   A method according to claim 6 wherein the constant
rate is 1 milliamp per second.
     8.   A method according to claim 1 wherein the automatic
increase in stimulation intensity is at a geometric rate.
     9.   A method according to claim 8 wherein the geometric
rate is 1.05.
     10.  A method according to claim 8 wherein the amount of
increase in stimulation intensity is bounded by a minimum and
maximum value.
     11.  A method according to claim 10 wherein the minimum
value is 0.5 milliamps.

                              - 29
     12.  A method according to claim 10 wherein the maximum
value is 2 milliamps.
     13.  A method according to claim 1 wherein the automatic
increase in stimulation intensity is initiated by patient
interaction with a push button.
     14.  A method according to claim 2 wherein the indication
of the stimulation intensity at which stimulation sensation is
first perceived is by patient interaction with a push button.
     15.  A method according to claim 2 wherein the indication
of the stimulation intensity at which stimulation sensation is
first perceived is by a patient gesture detected by an
accelerometer.
     16.  A method according to claim 15 wherein said patient
gesture is tapping a stimulator enclosure.
     17.  A method according to claim 1 wherein adding the pre
determined intensity offset comprises multiplying the
stimulation intensity associated with said electrotactile
sensation threshold by a multiplicative factor.
     18.  A method according to claim 17 wherein the
multiplicative factor is 2.

                              - 30
     19.  A method according to claim 17 wherein the
multiplicative factor is a function of demographic factors.
     20.  A method according to claim 19 wherein the demographic
factors include patient age, gender, weight, and height.
     21.  A method according to claim 17 wherein the
multiplicative factor is a function of biometric factors.
     22.  A method according to claim 21 wherein the biometric
factors include the patient's calf circumference.
     23.  A method according to claim 17 wherein the
multiplicative factor is a function of physiological factors.
     24.  A method according to claim 23 wherein the
physiological factors include skin surface temperature, galvanic
skin response, electromyographic activity, and bioimpedance.
     25.  A method according to claim 17 wherein the
multiplicative factor is a function of the stimulation intensity
corresponding to a previously identified electrotactile
sensation threshold.
     26.  A method according to claim 17 wherein the
multiplicative factor is a function of at least one previously
applied stimulation intensity.

                              - 31
     27.  A method according to claim 1 wherein the therapeutic
stimulation intensity is calculated from a plurality of
measurements of the stimulation intensity corresponding to the
electrotactile sensation threshold.
     28.  A method according to claim 27 wherein the therapeutic
stimulation intensity is calculated from the average of a
plurality of the stimulation intensities corresponding to the
electrotactile sensation threshold.
     29.  A method according to claim 27 wherein the therapeutic
stimulation intensity is calculated from the median of the
plurality of the stimulation intensities corresponding to the
electrotactile sensation threshold.
     30.  Apparatus for providing transcutaneous electrical
nerve stimulation to a patient, the apparatus comprising:
     a housing;
     stimulation means mounted within the housing for generating
electrical pulses;
     an electrode array releasably mounted to the housing and
connectable to the stimulation means, the electrode array
comprising a plurality of electrodes for applying the electrical
pulse generated by the stimulation means to the skin of a
patient; and
     a strap attached to the housing;

                              - 32
     wherein the strap is configured to hold the electrode array
against the skin of the patient so as to treat pain when the
stimulation means generates electrical pulses.
     31.  Apparatus for applying TENS therapy to a human, the
apparatus comprising:
     a housing;
     an electrical stimulator mounted to the housing for
generating electrical pulses of the type useful in TENS therapy;
     an electrode array mountable to the housing and connectable
to the electrical stimulator, the electrode array comprising a
plurality of electrodes for applying the electrical pulses to a
human so as to apply TENS therapy to the human; and
     at least one accelerometer mounted to the housing and
configured to detect a user gesture and, upon detection of a
user gesture, modify operation of the electrical stimulator.
     32.  Apparatus according to claim 31 wherein the electrical
pulses are current regulated.
     33.  Apparatus according to claim 31 wherein the user
gesture is a tap.
     34.  Apparatus according to claim 31 wherein modifying
operation of said electrical stimulator is to add an offset
intensity to the present stimulation intensity.

                              - 33
     35.  Apparatus according to claim 31 wherein modifying
operation of said electrical stimulator includes changing
stimulation intensity.
     36.  Apparatus according to claim 31 wherein modifying
operation of said electrical stimulator includes changing the
duration of the stimulation session.
     37.  Apparatus according to claim 31 wherein modifying
operation of the electrical stimulator comprises immediately
stopping stimulation.
     38.  Apparatus for applying TENS therapy to a human, the
apparatus comprising:
     a housing;
     an electrical stimulator mounted to the housing for
generating electrical pulses of the type useful in TENS therapy;
     an electrode array mountable to the housing and connectable
to the electrical stimulator, the electrode array comprising a
plurality of electrodes for applying the electrical pulses to a
human so as to apply TENS therapy to the human;
     at least one accelerometer mounted to the housing and
configured to detect the activity level of the human to which
the housing is secured and, depending upon the detected activity
level, modify operation of the electrical stimulator; and
     a strap attached to the housing, wherein the strap is
configured to hold the housing, the electrical stimulator and

                              - 34
the electrode array at a specific anatomical location on a limb
of a human so as to apply TENS therapy.
     39.  Apparatus according to claim 38 wherein modifying
operation of said electrical stimulator includes changing
stimulation intensity.
     40.  Apparatus according to claim 38 wherein modifying
operation of said electrical stimulator includes changing the
duration of the stimulation session.
     41.  Apparatus for applying TENS therapy to a human, the
apparatus comprising:
     a housing;
     an electrical stimulator mounted to the housing for
generating electrical pulses of the type useful in TENS therapy;
     an electrode array mountable to the housing and connectable
to the electrical stimulator, the electrode array comprising a
plurality of electrodes for applying the electrical pulses to a
human so as to apply TENS therapy to the human;
     at least one accelerometer mounted to the housing and
configured to detect the orientation of the housing and,
depending upon the detected orientation of the housing, modify
operation of the electrical stimulator; and
     a strap attached to the housing, wherein the strap is
configured to hold the housing, the electrical stimulator and
the electrode array at a specific anatomical location on a limb
of a human so as to apply TENS therapy.

                               - 35
     42.   Apparatus according to claim 41 wherein modifying
operation of said electrical stimulator includes changing
stimulation intensity.
     43.   Apparatus according to claim 41 wherein modifying
operation of said electrical stimulator includes changing the
duration of the stimulation session.
     44.   Apparatus for applying TENS therapy to a human, the
apparatus comprising:
     a housing;
     an electrical stimulator mounted to the housing for
generating electrical pulses of the type useful in TENS therapy;
     an electrode array mountable to the housing and connectable
to the electrical stimulator, the electrode array comprising a
plurality of electrodes for applying the electrical pulses to a
human so as to apply TENS therapy to the human;  and
     a user interface located remotely from the housing, wherein
the user interface communicates with the electrical stimulator
via a wireless  connection for controlling operation of the
electrical stimulator.
     45.   Apparatus according to claim 44 wherein operation of
said electrical stimulator is customized to a pain
characteristic of  said human captured on said remote user
interface.

                              - 36
     46.  Apparatus according to claim 45 wherein said pain
characteristic is a type of chronic pain of said human.
     47.  Apparatus according to claim 45 wherein said pain
characteristic is a duration of chronic pain of said human.
     48.  Apparatus according to claim 44 wherein operation of
said electrical stimulator is customized to physiology of said
human captured on said remote user interface.
     49.  Apparatus according to claim 48 wherein said
physiology is the age of said human.
     50.  Apparatus for applying TENS therapy to a human, the
apparatus comprising:
     a housing;
     an electrical stimulator mounted to the housing for
generating electrical pulses of the type useful in TENS therapy;
     an electrode array mountable to the housing and connectable
to the electrical stimulator, the electrode array comprising a
plurality of electrodes for applying the electrical pulses to a
human so as to apply TENS therapy to the human;
     a strap attached to the housing, wherein the strap is
configured to hold the housing, the electrical stimulator and
the electrode array at a specific anatomical location on a limb
of the human so as to apply TENS therapy; and

                                 - 37
        a temperature sensor configured to monitor the skin
temperature of the human and, depending upon the temperature,
modify operation of the electrical stimulator.
MMC/NEURO596OPCTAUSTRALIADIV.CLM

<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
<removed-apn> <removed-date>
